Jack Britton, an author of the report, said: “Recent policy changes have increased university funding and reduced long-term government spending on higher education while substantially increasing payments by graduates, especially high-earning graduates.

“There is probably not much further to go down this route, but proposals for reducing student fees tend to hit the public finances while benefiting high earners the most.”

Colleague Chris Belfield said: “Interest rates on student loans reached up to 6.1 per cent in March 2017 and are very high compared with current market rates. Combined with high levels of debt, this increases average debt on graduation by £5,800. There is no impact on the repayments of the lowest earners, but the highest earners can expect to repay up to £40,000 in interest payments.”

The IFS’s Laura van der Erve, said: “Universities are undoubtedly better off under the current system than they were before the 2012 reforms. However, their incentives have shifted towards providing low-cost subjects.”

Press Association

====== 659 ========

UNIVERSITY 'SAFE SPACE' POLICIES LEAVE ACADEMICS IN FEAR OF LOSING THEIR JOBS, CLAIMS PROFESSOR

University “safe space” policies are leaving academics afraid to speak their minds for fear of losing their jobs, a professor has claimed.

Dennis Hayes, professor of education at Derby University, suggested there is a “climate of censorious quietude” in universities that means important issues are simply not discussed.

His comments came as universities minister Jo Johnson warned that higher education institutions have a legal duty to ensure freedom of speech.

He said he had written to university bosses out of concern that this duty is being put at risk by policies of “safe spaces and no-platforming”.

The policies – typically put in place by student unions in a bid to protect students from discrimination and language they may find offensive – have led to fraught debate in recent months.

A number of high profile speakers, including feminist writer Germaine Greer and human rights activists Peter Tatchell and Maryam Namazie, have been asked not to appear at events held by some institutions for fear their opinions may be upsetting to some students.

Campaigners say the policies are increasingly impacting on the right to free speech – something they argue is vital within higher education.

During a debate on free speech on campus at a higher education conference held at Buckingham University, Mr Hayes, who is also director of Academics for Academic Freedom (AFAF) said: “There’s so many things that could be discussed, that you dare not say.

“So when you go to university now, you learn what not to say.”

Mr Hayes suggested there is a belief that someone cannot discuss certain topics, such as abortion, LGBT rights or racism, unless they have direct experience of them, adding that discussing this type of issue “can get you in serious trouble, if not the sack, but you get sent to Coventry”.

“No-one will talk to you.”

“What exists is a climate of censorious quietude in universities. Things are simply not discussed. Academics and students know what they should not discuss.”

Earlier, Mr Johnson told industry leaders at the conference: “Freedom of speech is a core legal duty for universities.

“For a very long time there’s been an obligation on institutions to ensure there is genuinely a climate in which ideas can be challenged and debates can be genuinely entered into.”

He said he had written to Universities UK “out of concern that this duty that universities have was at risk from safe spaces and no-platforming”.

He said he wanted to remind them that one of their purposes is to create an environment in which people can discuss and challenge ideas.

A report earlier this year by Spiked magazine and the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust suggested campus censorship has been increasing steadily over the past three years, with a growing number of institutions actively clamping down on ideas deemed not in keeping with campus values.

The Free Speech University Rankings (FSUR), drawn from examining the policies and bans of 115 universities and student unions, found almost two-thirds (63.5 per cent) were “severely” restrictive of free speech, with Russell Group institutions found to be significantly more censorious than average.

The NUS official “no-platform” list contains six groups including the British National Party and Al-Muhajiroun, a banned Islamic network in the UK.

Individual unions and student groups can, however, decide on their own policies and reject people on an individual basis. Current NUS guidelines ask student unions to “balance freedom of speech and freedom from harm”.

====== 660 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACCUSED OF SEXISM OVER CLAIM SITTING EXAMS AT HOME 'WILL HELP CLOSE GENDER GAP'

The University of Oxford faces fresh allegations of sexism, after its history department announced it would allow students to sit exams from home in order to help close the gender gap.

As of next term, students will be able to replace one of their five final-year exams with a “take-home” paper, as part of reforms to Oxford’s History Faculty.

The move is designed to boost results for female students at the top-ranking institution, who are statistically less likely to graduate with a first-class degree in the subject than their male peers.

A leading historian has criticised the decision, however, warning that it risks implying that women are the “weaker sex”.

Amanda Foreman, an honorary research senior fellow in history at the University of Liverpool, told The Telegraph: “The reason why girls and boys perform differently in exams has nothing to do with the building they are in.

“I think it is extremely well intentioned and I applaud them for taking the matter seriously. But it is so insulting.

“You are saying that the girls can’t take the stress of sitting in the exam room, which does raise one’s anxiety levels. I don’t think girls are inherently weaker than boys and can’t take it. Women are not the weaker sex.”

Ms Foreman said the reason why men do outperform women in the subject is in reality the result of entrenched gender stereotypes from a young age.

While young men are encouraged to be risk takers, young women are traditionally taught to be safe and conformist in their decisions and attitudes.

“A first-class degree is awarded on basis of whether ideas are fresh and new – risk taking behaviour takes you to that point,” she explained.

According to a document seen by the Sunday Times, the history course at Oxford has one of the largest gender gaps in terms of results.

The document stated: “This course in particular showed one of the largest gender gaps in results between women and men.

“As women and men perform more equally in submitted work, it was proposed that a take-out exam with questions similar to that in a timed exam should be implemented.”

Some faculty members were reportedly sceptical of the policy, warning it increased the risk of plagiarism and acted as a “sticking plaster” rather than a long-term solution to gender attainment gaps.

An Oxford University spokesman defended the policy, adding that the gender gap was not the prime reason for the change.

“Timed exams remain an important part of the course, testing skills to complement the other assessed elements,” he said.

“This change is part of a broader goal of diversifying the history course in response to a number of factors, including the need to test a greater range of academic skills.

“The gender gap was also a consideration in this change, although research shows that the causes of the gap are broad do not lie solely in methods of assessment.”

====== 661 ========

GROWING NUMBERS OF STUDENTS REGARD UNIVERSITIES AS ‘POOR VALUE FOR MONEY’

The proportion of those who thought they had “good” or “very good” value is now at 35 per cent – the lowest level record - compared to more than 50 per cent five years ago.

In the biggest sector-wide survey of its kind, more than 14,000 undergraduates were asked questions on how hard they felt they were working and how satisfied they were with their lives, as well as their thoughts on recent government policies.

While the majority said they had learned “a lot”, and teaching quality appears to be improving year on year, perceptions of value for money was highlighted as a major concern among analysts.

The survey, from Higher Education Policy Unit and the Higher Education Academy also found student wellbeing to have declined overall, with just 14 per cent saying they felt satisfied with their lives.

Young women and LGBT students at university are particularly likely to feel unhappy, the survey found.

As in previous years, the majority of respondents were in favour of tuition fees being scrapped, and three-quarters of students felt that the new Teaching Excellence Framework-linked fee rises should not apply.

Students from ethnic minority backgrounds were found to be among the least satisfied, with just 11 per cent of Chinese students, 14 per cent of Asian and 18 per cent of black students agreeing with the statement “I have sufficient access to academic staff outside class”, compared with 21 per cent of their white peers.

Just 24 per cent of Asian students, 29 per cent of Chinese and 33 per cent of black students were of the belief their course was good value, compared to 36 per cent of white undergraduates.

Responding to the findings, Nick Hillman, Director of Hepi and co-author of the report, said much of the story was “positive”, but stressed that students were still less happy and more anxious than non-students.

“The survey proves beyond all doubt that the student experience differs depending on ethnicity, the type of accommodation and sexual orientation,” he said.

“Such factors have a direct impact on how engaged students are with their studies as well as on their overall quality of life. For a truly great academic experience, we need to think ever more deeply about how to respond to the individual characteristics of each student.”

Student numbers overall have taken a hit in the past year, with the total number of UK applicants falling five per cent on last year.

Those applying for places from other EU countries are also down by seven per cent – the first decrease in almost a decade.

Industry leaders have blamed rising tuition fees and threats to the reputation of UK universities as a result of Brexit for the fall in interest.

World university rankings published this week found the UK’s top institutions are slipping down the league tables, but analysts warned cuts to funding were more likely to blame than last year’s referendum.

Speaking ahead of Thursday’s general election vote, Mr Hillman added: “The election has seen a lively battle for student votes.

“Students want universities to provide information on where fees go, taxpayers to cover more of the costs and policymakers to provide stronger arguments for future fee rises. Above all, the Survey confirms higher education transforms lives but also that it does not currently help all students equally.’

Dame Julia Goodfellow, the president of Universities UK and vice-chancellor of the University of Kent, said: “Universities have increased investment in teaching and learning and are continuing to respond to student feedback.

"Students are now reporting record levels of satisfaction with their courses across all the UK’s universities, and that is down to the hard work and commitment of university staff.”

====== 662 ========

READING UNIVERSITY UNDER FIRE AFTER CLAIMING TO BE IN TOP 1% IN THE WORLD

The University of Reading has come under fire for allegedly making false claims it is in the “top 1 per cent” of the world’s universities.

The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) has since asked the institution to remove the claim from its website, after a complaint was made to the regulating body.

The discrepancy comes as new World University Rankings are released, detailing the most reputable and top-performing institutions across the globe.

A description of the University of Reading as being in the top 1 per cent worldwide had been challenged by a complainant, who said such a figure could not be substantiated and could be misleading, the BBC reported.

The ASA said the issue had since been “informally resolved”, with the university agreeing to remove the claim, without going ahead with a formal investigation or ruling.

The matter has invited debate as to how university rankings can be used in marketing, since the tables are deemed especially important for the recruitment of students from overseas.

Several other top-performing institutes in the UK currently make similar claims on their websites and advertising brochures based on the much revered QS and Times Higher Education global league tables.

Charles Heymann, the University of Reading’s head of corporate communications, welcomed the clarification over how universities can present global rankings, suggesting that it was not just Reading that had suffered confusion over rankings.

“It now needs to investigate every single other UK university which claims it is in the top 1 per cent in the world, rather than waiting for individual complaints to be made,” he said of the ASA.

“Like dozens of other UK universities in recent years, we judged this put us in the top 1 per cent out of an estimated 20,000 institutions internationally.

“We accept, though, the ASA’s view that this could not be proved given no league table assesses every single university worldwide.”

While the advertising claims had been made “all in good faith”, he acknowledged that universities must accept stricter marketing rules as the industry continues to grow.

Since boasts about the institution’s top percentage status have been printed in brochures and other literature, Reading has agreed to phase out the potentially misleading claims, but said it would take some time.

A total of 76 UK institutions are included in the QS rankings for 2018, with 51 dropping down the list.

Cambridge University has been named top for the UK, ranking in fifth place globally – down from fourth place last year.

Oxford takes sixth place and University College London comes in seventh, both retaining their positions from last year.

Overall, 16 of the 24 Russell Group Universities have fallen down the ranks.

This is thought to be the result of a squeeze on university resources as well as increasing competition from other parts of the world, rather than the impact of Brexit, experts suggested.

The rankings assess university performance in four areas – research, teaching, employability and internationalisation.

Ben Sowter, head of research at QS, said: “Though the temptation may be to attribute the UK’s second year of struggle to Brexit, we would warn against doing so.

“Much of the data we collect for these tables has been collected over a five-year period, and the first year of post-Brexit internationalisation scores suggests that there has, thus far, been a minimal impact on international student and faculty rates at UK institutions.

”Of greater importance, we believe, is the continued strain on university resources, which appears to be having a deleterious impact on not just research, but also the capacity to deliver world-class teaching.

“Also of greater significance than Brexit is the simple and unavoidable truth that these rankings are a relative exercise, and the rest of the world is becoming increasingly competitive.”

Dr Tim Bradshaw, acting director of the Russell Group, added: “The UK remains a world-leader in higher education and Russell Group universities have been fundamental to this success. Our members continue to deliver an excellent teaching and learning experience for students.

“By this ranking, four of the top 10 universities in the world are Russell Group institutions. Of course, there is always room for improvement and maintaining our global position in teaching, research and innovation requires investment.

“For a number of years, funding for teaching has been squeezed. The position is particularly acute in engineering and some of the sciences where the need for specialist facilities, equipment and technical support adds to the cost of teaching.

“This is something that the new government will have to look at closely if universities are to deliver the jobs and growth that we all want to see for the UK.”

====== 663 ========

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY APOLOGISES AFTER THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS MISTAKENLY TOLD THEY WOULD NOT GRADUATE

One of the UK’s most prestigious universities has been forced to apologise after mistakenly informing its final year students they would not be graduating on account of not finishing their studies.

Students at Edinburgh University were to ignore an email sent to them with the subject title “Graduation Ceremony Cancelled – No Award”, blaming a “system error” for the mix-up.

The message read: “You recently registered to attend a graduation ceremony this summer.

“However, we are now advised that you are not expected to complete your studies until later in the year, and therefore we presume that you may be eligible to attend the next available graduation ceremony.”

A similar message also appeared when students logged into the university portal.

One 22-year-old politics student – who preferred not to be named – said she was one of many to endure a sleepless night worrying she may have somehow failed her degree.

“I felt a lot of confusion and frustration,” she told The Independent. “There were a lot of panicked phone calls and messages being sent back and forth but little real information was available.

“Changes were also made to the student portal which echoed the content of the email which made the message seem to be legitimate. Few people have their dissertation marks back yet and so there was concern that people may have failed.”

Because the email was sent in the middle of the night, nobody could get in touch with Student Administration services to find out what was happening until the morning, she added.

“When I called the line was busy for 15 minutes. The person I spoke to when I did get through described what had happened as a system error and couldn’t say much more.”

Another student, Calum Mackie, 24, discovered the message in his inbox just after midnight on Thursday.

He said: “I panicked because we just finished exams a couple of weeks ago and it would be around now that results would start to be known to the university, and if there would be any resits, so I immediately thought I had failed something and would not be able to graduate.”

Phone lines to contact Student Administration were busy through the night, The Student newspaper reported, with thousands of students across different degree courses said to have received the panic-inducing email.

Mr Mackie said: “I checked on the portal in case it had been some kind of hoax and the university portal had the same message so I thought it was legit.

“I’m down to be doing teacher training this year so if I weren’t to graduate this summer I thought it was going to mess up my plans for summer and this year. It was really worrying.”

The English literature and history student said many of his friends studying different subjects also received the email.

He said: “Those that were up last night and found the email were really worried and anxious and others woke up this morning to find it.

“Everyone seems to have been very panicked and worried and now we have found out from the university that it was sent in error, everyone seems frustrated that it was sent to so many students.”

Students were sent an email from the university at around 9.30am on Thursday telling them to ignore the earlier message.

It said: “We are aware that a number of final year students have received an email, apparently from the university, informing them that their graduation has been cancelled.

“Please ignore this message. No graduations have been cancelled. Your final degree results will be released in line with the published schedule.

“We are looking urgently into this situation.”

A year ago, Edinburgh University came under fire after issuing advice to future graduates that was deemed “classist and sexist”.

In an article in the university’s newsletter, students were advised to visit Harvey Nichols department store and spend costly amounts on clothes and accessories – with women advised to buy a £785 bag to store their “lippy and smartphone”.

Graduation ceremonies are due to take place at the university in late June and early July.

An Edinburgh University spokeswoman insisted there had been no breach of their systems and no student data had been compromised.

“Our preliminary investigation suggests that these emails were regrettably issued as a result of a system error,” she said.

“The university has written to all students affected to reassure them that their graduations have not been cancelled and asking them to ignore the emails.”

====== 664 ========

TOP PRIVATE SCHOOL PUPILS MORE LIKELY TO END UP WITH DRUG AND ALCOHOL ADDICTIONS, NEW RESEARCH REVEALS

People who go to the best private schools are more likely to end up with drug and alcohol addictions in later life, new research has suggested.

“Privileged” students who live in affluent areas and attend elite schools are at a high risk of turning to cannabis, cocaine and ecstasy, the group of researchers claimed, as well as being more prone to alcohol abuse.

Girls from top schools are said to be three times more likely to suffer from drugs and alcohol-related problems than their less privileged peers, even in cases where they performed “exceedingly well” in school and were highly thought of by teachers and friends.

Boys from the same backgrounds were said to be twice as likely as other male students to becoming addicted to drink or substances in early adulthood.

Studying the habits of two groups of students in affluent communities in New England in the US, researchers from Arizona State University (ASU) assessed teenage participants when they were high school seniors, then again annually across four college years, and from the age of 23 to 27.

“We found alarmingly high rates of substance abuse among young adults who we initially studied as teenagers,” said Professor Suniya Luthar, a professor of psychology who led the research at ASU.

“Results showed that among both men and women and across annual assessments, these young adults had substantial elevations, relative to national norms, in frequency of several indicators - drinking to intoxication and of using marijuana, stimulants such as Adderall, cocaine, and club drugs such as ecstasy.”

Between 19 and 24 per cent of women in the older cohort were found to have some form of addiction, compared with 23 to 40 per cent of men by the age of 26.

“These rates were three and two times as high respectively, as compared to national norms,” said Prof Luthar.

”Among the younger cohort by the age of 22 years, rates of addiction were between 11 and 16 per cent among women - close to national norms, but 19 to 27 per cent among men, or about twice as high as national norms,” she added.

Under closer analysis, the researchers saw a pattern in that participants with higher rates of addiction had all attended the best schools.

Publishing the study in the journal Development and Psychopathology, Prof Luther suggested part of the reason behind the findings might be that pupils at these schools experience more pressure on them to achieve.

They tended to abide by a “work hard play hard” mentality, and often had more money, which helped to buy alcohol and source both prescription and recreational drugs, as well as fake IDs.

“Not all of these students were from wealthy families but most were; as parents typically had advanced educational degrees and median incomes much higher than national norms,” she added.

”And without question, most of the parents wanted their kids to head off to the best universities, as did the kids themselves.“

Parents of such children could also be lulled into a false sense of security, she suggested, trusting their children to be behaving well on account of their good grades.

"Messing with drugs and alcohol really should not be trivialised as just something all kids do,” the author warned. “The earlier children start to use and the more frequently they do, the more likely it is that they will develop addictions down the line.”

Improved sex and relationships education in schools could prove to be helpful moving forward, she said, as information on the risks of drug taking and sexually transmitted diseases were all relevant and needed.

Schools should also be aware of the pressures that students are under, particularly in trying to get into the most selective universities.

Going so far as to make pupils aware of alternative life paths would also help to reduce such problems, she said, for instance “showing the kids there are role models of adults who did not go to an elite university, but who picked a college because it felt right for them and who were highly successful in life.”

“We now need the same dedicated research on kids who grow up in pressure- cooker, high achieving schools,” Luthar said. “Paradoxical though it may seem, these ostensibly privileged youth, many of who start experimenting early and often with drinking and drugs, could well be among the groups at highest risk for alcoholism and addiction in adulthood.”

====== 665 ========

FEMALE STUDENTS ASKED TO WEAR LOW-CUT DRESSES TO GRADUATION

A university in Belgium has been forced to apologise after a message was issued to its female students asking them to wear low-cut outfits to their graduation ceremony.

Medical students at the Free University of Brussels (ULB) were told in an email: “From an aesthetic point of view, it is better for young women to wear a dress or skirt, and a nice revealing neckline.”

“Of course, ladies, this advice is not obligatory,” the message added, after advising men to simply wear a suit for the event, which takes place next month.

The message came to light after it was posted on an open Facebook page with the comment: “a little scandal”.

Hundreds of web users responded with anger and frustration, accusing the university of outright sexism.

“Is this a joke? They are graduates of medicine and we’re asking them to show their chest?” one viewer said.

Another wrote: “The dress I can understand but the ‘nice cleavage’… you got a PHD, but who cares, shows your nipples.”

ULB issued an apology statement on Facebook and Twitter after the matter was picked up by international media.

A translation read: “The Faculty of Medicine, through its dean, presents its sincerest apologies to all the students who have received the email mentioned below."

The email was sent to future graduates to give “practical instructions” for the day of the ceremony, it said.

“It goes without saying that the instructions linked to the dress of young female graduates are as far removed from as they are contrary to the values defended daily by ULB and its faculty.”

The email was most likely sent by a woman as the secretariat did not include any men, the dean of the medicine faculty, Marco Schetgen, told Belgian news outlet RTL.

He confirmed it was “not a hoax,“ that the message had been sent out, adding it had shocked him too when he saw it.

====== 666 ========

UNIVERSITIES ARE WRONG TO LOWER ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS, SAY UNDERGRADUATES

Undergraduates don’t think universities should drop entry requirements for disadvantaged students, but should help them get better A-level exam results instead, a new study claims.

In a survey of just under 1,000 Russell Group university undergraduates, researchers found almost three-quarters (73 per cent) believed university access budgets would be better spent helping potential students succeed at school by improving their A-level and GCSE results.

State-school educated students, who made up over 80 per cent of the survey sample, were just as likely as those who were privately educated to disapprove of lower grade offers.

The findings come amid debate over how the UK’s top ranking universities can or should improve diversity on campus by supporting candidates from less advantaged backgrounds in undergraduate admissions.

Last year, the gap between rich and poor students being granted university places was found to have reached a record high, according to the most recent Ucas figures.

Students who received free school meals – a long-time indicator of family poverty – are currently less than half as likely to enter higher education as their more affluent peers.

In response to the concerns, the Government’s Social Mobility Advisory Group argued the case for bright students from poorly-performing schools in disadvantaged areas being given offers that require lower A-level grades than their more socially advantaged peers.

A number of institutions have since entertained the idea, including the University of Bristol, whose vice chancellor, Hugh Brady, said he was keen to make a “step change” in opening up to students from all backgrounds.

However, according to the student opinion survey – commissioned by online service MyTutor, a community of over 3,500 tutors from the leading UK universities – nearly two-thirds (63 per cent) said lower entry grades for disadvantaged students could be perceived as patronising.

Over half (58 per cent) went so far as to suggest such a move could be counterproductive, as the students targeted were disproportionately at risk of dropping out.

Henri French, an aerospace engineering student at Bristol University, said giving prospective students lower offers risked students getting places on courses that they “weren’t necessarily academically equipped to handle”.

“Studying for a degree can be stressful and I’ve seen situations where students have become overwhelmed by a course, quickly fall behind and drop out when they don’t get the same support they did at school,” he said.

Latest data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency suggests there has been a steady rise in the first-year dropout rate for young first-degree entrants from the most disadvantaged areas.

The figure was 8.8 per cent in 2014-15, up from 8.2 per cent the year before and 7.7 per cent in 2012-13.

An overwhelming majority (72 per cent) of undergraduate students agreed applicants would benefit from the opportunity to talk to someone of a similar background studying the same course or attending the same institution before filling in their Ucas application.

Almost two in five (39 per cent) also said first-term remedial lessons to help bring students up to speed are too little, too late.

More than one-third (37 per cent) of undergraduates questioned said they had thought about quitting their studies at some point because the preconceived ideas they had about university life didn’t match up to reality.

Responding to the survey, second-year Exeter student Megan Godley said she had personally benefited from a university access summer school she had attended before submitting her Ucas application.

As the first person in her family to go to university, she said the experience was “very helpful”.

“It gave me the chance to talk to people already in higher education and really made me think about what I wanted and didn’t want from my university experience,” she said.

She too does not agree with the idea of offering lower grades as part of an access scheme, however.

“People end up arriving at university at a disadvantage and I’ve seen students struggle to understand the lecture materials. Helping students to get better A-level results is a more sensible way to go.”

Another student – a third year physicist at Manchester University who asked not to be named – felt access schemes that dropped exam entry requirements were “better than nothing but patronising for disadvantaged students”.

“There is a reason that a university asks for a particular set of grades to get on a course,” they said.

“I understand that not everybody gets the same opportunities at school but I’ve seen some people really struggle here. Somewhere down the line there is always going to be a point where things can’t be made easier because of previous circumstances.”

When asked to compare school with university, almost half (47 per cent) of the 950 Russell Group students who took part in the study said the quality of pastoral support at their school was better than at their university.

Universities Minister Jo Johnson has told vice-chancellors that the Government hopes to double the proportion of students from disadvantaged backgrounds entering higher education and to increase the number of BAME students by 20 per cent by 2020.

According to Edward Timpson, Minister of State for Vulnerable Children and Families, universities intend to spend more than £833m on their access schemes this year.

James Grant, a co-founder of MyTutor,said: “Exam results are of course only part of the puzzle.

“The very best access schemes help prepare students for the pressures and challenges of university life. They don’t just focus on the academic aspects but also help with moving away from home and being more independent.”

====== 667 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY TO MAKE BLACK, ASIAN AND NON-EUROPEAN HISTORY COMPULSORY TO IMPROVE 'WHITE CURRICULUM'

History students at the University of Oxford will be required to sit at least one exam paper focusing on black, Asian and other non-European history, following long-held complaints about an overly “white” curriculum.

From the next academic year, all Oxford history undergraduate students will choose at least one from a range of papers covering non-British and non-European areas of interest during their three-year degree course.

The move comes as universities across the UK face protests led by the student campaign, Why is my curriculum white?, The Times reported.

Possible topics for students to choose from include the 1960s civil rights movement in the US, Indian independence, the Spanish conquest of Mexico and te development of modern Japan. Figures such as Martin Luther King, Malcolm X and Mahatma Gandhi will feature prominently.

The top ranking UK institution has been criticised in recent years for not recruiting enough black students, despite a growing number of BAME students applying.

The university has also been at the centre of controversy following the student-led Rhodes Must Fall campaign, which saw thousands of people across the UK and South Africa campaign for statues of Cecil Rhodes to be removed on the basis that he was a “racist colonialist”.

Oxford’s Oriel College, which is home to one Cecil Rhodes figure, has since refused to take it down.

An Oxford University spokesman said there was “no link” between the Rhodes Must Fall campaign and the updated history curriculum – the move was in fact four years in the making, he said.

In a statement, the university’s History Faculty said the department “regularly reviews and updates its course curriculum to reflect the latest developments in the subject.

“After a number of years of discussion and consultation among ourselves and with students, we have decided to make a number of changes to the curriculum.

“Among these is a requirement that students study one paper (from a wide range of such options) in non-British and non-European history, alongside two papers of British History and two papers of European History.”

Students take eleven papers in total during their history degree, the faculty added, and many members already opt to take at least one paper of non-European or British history.

“We are pleased to be modernising and diversifying our curriculum in this way,” the department said.

The move has been welcomed by students and academics alike, but critics have argued the change does little to solve Oxford’s underrepresentation of women and ethnic minorities.

Niall Ferguson, a former Oxford professor who is now at the Hoover Institution in America, told The Times: “By comparison with America, some history courses here do look a bit old-fashioned.

“I am not the kind of backwoodsman who thinks Oxford should only teach English history and general history, which is what it did when I was an undergraduate, but let us be careful not to stop teaching crucial subjects like the rise of the West or the world wars in the effort to make courses more diverse.”

This year, the institution unveiled a series of new portraits of women and non-white scholars and alumni in a bid to “redress diversity” on show.

Other universities are also in the process of reviewing their history curriculums, it was reported, including Leeds, where a module in Black British History is said to be in development.

Cambridge professor Sir Richard Evans also said the way the empire was being taught was changing. “It is being studied in a more balanced way,” he said.

* This article originally reported that Oxford University was to introduce a "new exam paper" featuring black, Middle Eastern, Asian and Indian events, which was to be taken by all history undergraduates. In fact, as the quoted comments from Oxford University made clear, the change to the curriculum simply makes it a requirement that all history students take at least one non-European paper from a range of options during their degree. Some of the options have been available for many years. 6/6/17

====== 668 ========

BREXIT BARRIERS ON EUROPEAN COLLABORATIONS 'WOULD HARM SCIENCE', SAY TOP UNIVERSITY LEADERS

Post-Brexit restrictions to research collaborations in Europe will harm scientific progress, a group of leading UK universities has warned.

Science and research must be a priority during discussions between UK and EU leaders,

The Russell Group of research intensive universities said there would be “no winners” from a Brexit settlement that introduced new barriers for international researchers.

Acting Director, Dr Tim Bradshaw, called on negotiators to make science and research a priority during negotiations between UK and EU leaders.

In an open letter on the group’s website, Dr Bradshaw said the group of top institutions wished to maintain “the closest possible relationship with colleagues across the EU”.

“This starts with confirmation of the rights of our friends, colleagues and students from other EU Member States,” he said.

“The 86,000 citizens of other EU Member States who work and study at Russell Group universities help ensure our institutions remain dynamic and innovative.

“We value our EU colleagues very highly and need urgent assurances that, after Brexit, they will retain the same rights to stay and work in the UK that they have now.”

His comments follow growing concerns from industry leaders that the UK’s reputation as a hub for top quality research could be hindered following the nation’s separation from the EU.

A cross-party inquiry into the impact of Brexit on higher education last year found academics were already pulling out of research bids for fear of losing their jobs or funding post-Brexit.

Universities are already missing out on vital research as a consequence, leading advisors said.

Applications for study from EU candidates have also fallen by a dramatic seven per cent in the past year – the first decrease in almost a decade.

Industry leaders said the figures were “alarming” and suggested the UK was becoming an “increasingly less attractive option” for foreign candidates.

In his statement on Monday, Dr Bradshaw said: “Working together, Russell Group universities and European partners have made huge breakthroughs in medicine, engineering and any number of other fields.

“Joint working will continue after Brexit but there would be no winners from restrictive new barriers to collaboration. That would be bad for the UK and bad for Europe.

“A good outcome for science will not happen by accident,” he continued.

“Securing a strong deal for the UK and the EU will take hard work and we will engage constructively with all sides to ensure we get an agreement that delivers on research.”

UK universities are among the biggest beneficiaries of the EU’s Horizon 2020 research fund.

Non-EU countries are able draw on the fund if they contribute towards it.

A major condition of countries being able to participate is allowing freedom of movement for researchers, however – the future of which remains unclear for UK academics post-Brexit.

In her party manifesto released last week, Prime Minister Theresa May promised the UK would continue to “collaborate in science and innovation” with EU member states.

“There may be specific European programmes in which we might want to participate and if so, it will be reasonable that we make a contribution,” the document adds.

Labour's manifesto promises that the party in government would “ensure that the UK maintains our leading research role by seeking to stay part of Horizon 2020 and its successor programmes and by welcoming research staff to the UK”.

“Nearly half of all UK academic articles result from international collaboration and EU Member States are some of our biggest partners,” Dr Bradshaw concluded.

“These relationships improve the quality of UK research and underpin the strength of our science base.”

====== 669 ========

ONE IN THREE STUDENTS WILLING TO USE SEX WORK TO FINANCE THEIR STUDIES

As many as one in three students would be willing to exchange sex for a free education, exclusive figures can reveal, as concerns grow for a generation saddled with unmanageable debts as a result of rising tuition fees and sky-high living costs.

Answering questions for a research project conducted by London South Bank University with The Independent, the vast majority of former and current students said they would consider exchanging their time and company with a stranger in return for help financing their studies.

The survey, which was a blind poll posted on The Independent, attracting 1477 participants, found just under 70 per cent admitted to feeling stressed over money, with just over half (53 per cent) having to take up a full or part-time job alongside their studies.

At least 88 per cent said they would be somewhat interested in having someone else paying for their education, with more than half (52 per cent) admitting they would be “very interested”.

Commenting on the findings, Shelly Asquith, NUS vice president for welfare, said: “In the context of rising tuition fees, rising rents and the scrapping of maintenance grants, it is no wonder that students are increasingly looking for new ways to fund their degrees.”

Of the 920 participants who answered the question: “How far would you have gone for a free education supplied by someone who you were attracted to?”, 75 per cent said they would have at least given up some of their time to a sugar daddy figure.

University project researchers Dr Julia Shaw and Gemma Daglish said respondents were willing to go “way further” than they had expected.

Analysing the findings, they said: “What does it mean? We don’t know yet, but openness to the idea of becoming a sugar baby is far higher than we had predicted.

“‘Sugar baby’ sounds a lot better than ‘prostitute’ or ‘escort’,” the authors added.

“What if we had asked people whether they were willing to become prostitutes for a free education? Do you think fewer people would have agreed? We think so.”

A growing number of young people are believed to have at least considered becoming a sugar baby - defined as someone who offers their company to a well-off, often older, man or woman, who in turn takes care of them financially.

Leading sugar daddy app Seeking Arrangement last year claimed it had almost a quarter of a million UK students on its books – a 40 per cent increase on the same time period two years ago.

Responding to The Independent’s poll, which had a mixed sample of 52 per cent female and 45 per cent male participants, some 31 per cent said they would have had sex with someone they were attracted to in exchange for a free education.

This rate dropped when participants were asked how far they would be willing to go when they were not attracted to the provider, however almost two thirds said they would be willing to enter into some degree of sugar baby arrangement, and willingness to have sex as part of the arrangement was marked at 16 per cent.

Student funding appeared to play a significant part in students’ responses, with 55 per cent of participants indicating that a drop or cessation of their student funding would make it more likely for them to enter into a sugar baby arrangement.

Overall, most participants said they were at least a bit interested, and one in five said they were “very interested” in becoming sugar babies.

The survey sample was mostly made up of current or former students (73 per cent), with a fairly even split of men and women (52 per cent female, 45 per cent male and 3 per cent other).

“Because we were hoping that people from different sexual orientations would take part, we decided to leave the gender of the funding provider to the imagination of our participants,” the authors said.

The findings take their place in the debate over the rising cost of living for UK students.

University students in England are said to graduate with the some of the highest levels of debt in the world – more than any other English-speaking country – with the total student debt owed in the UK estimated at £71bn.

A separate study last year suggested debts accumulated during university years are so high that students are suffering from increased mental ill health and distress.

According to financial technology company Intelligent Environments, who ran the survey, one in seven students said they had been chased by debt collectors after being unable to pay rent.

Asquith said: “In many cities across the UK, the average maintenance loan won’t even cover a student’s rent, let alone food and other living costs. Instead of tackling these problems the government continues to raise fees and cut financial support for students.

“In the long term, we need to continue to make the case for a free education. In the short term though, we need to work with universities to ensure that students who are engaging in sex work to fund their degrees are properly supported. Their safety should be a priority.”

====== 670 ========

TOP UK UNIVERSITY REMOVES MUSLIM PRAYER SPACES DURING EXAM SEASON ON EVE OF RAMADAN

One of the UK’s top ranking universities has come under fire for removing Muslim prayer spaces.

Muslim students at the University of East Anglia were told on the eve of Ramadan that their Friday prayer space was to be taken away due to a “lack of space” during exam season.

The only daily prayer space available on campus is to be permanently removed and replaced with a corridor to the university Library, it was reported.

Students on Friday took part in a public prayer session in the main university square in peaceful protest against the move.

A spokesperson from the UEA Islamic Society said: “We are shocked and appalled that the University, who re-located us… on the condition that they would investigate a permanent solution which they have failed to produce, would take away our only prayer spaces during exam period and before Ramadan.

“They have done this without consulting or telling any Muslim Students or the Student Union.

“All we want is to pray in peace and in cohesion at UEA but after years of being bumped around campus, being the only faith forced to use our campus cards to access our prayer space and now finding out by accident that our prayer space is being permanently taken away, UEA does not feel like a space for Muslims.

Over the past few years, Muslim students at the university have used a lecture theatre for prayer and worship. The larger Friday worship sessions take place at a separate location by the Blackdale student residences.

Both arrangements were set up as a temporary solution while the university discussed plans for a permanent prayer space.

From Sunday, however, the Muslim student community are to be left with no designated prayer space, a move students say they had not been invited to discuss.

UEA’s Student Union has accused the university of discrimination, failing its duties under the Equality Act.

Union spokesperson for welfare, community and diversity, Jo Swo, said the situation had caused “a tremendous amount of anxiety and inconvenience for Muslim students as it has made them feel observed and treated like an inconvenience to the University”.

UEA has begun dramatic plans for expansion over the next few years, pledging to recruit up to 3,000 new students by 2030 – a rise of 20 per cent.

Students have complained that the space assigned for prayer is too small to accommodate the estimated 600-plus Muslim students already on campus.

“The University, which has been expanding its numbers, is trying to convince us that the already crowded Multi-Faith Centre will somehow fit all current students of faith,” a university Islamic Society spokesperson said.

“They don't seem to realise that not only is the space not big enough to accommodate or balance all students of faith with Muslim students praying 5 times a day, but the facilities are completely inadequate.”

A UEA spokesperson said the Vice Chancellor would be meeting with students imminently to discuss the matter.

Prayer facilities for Muslim students would “continue to be provided”, they added.

In a statement, the university said: "As part of a £2m investment in new library study spaces and the complete refurbishment of the University’s main lecture theatres the use of a prayer facility near Lecture Theatre 2 will be temporarily unavailable for safety reasons during the building works.

"That facility will become available to Muslim students again from the beginning of the new academic year.

"The Blackdale main hall will also continue to be available to Muslim students during the evenings but will not be available for Friday prayers for one month while exams take place.

"As a result, during this period, the main worship space in the University’s Multi-Faith Centre* will be available to Muslim students for Friday prayers."

The main hall would be available again for Friday prayers once the exam season finished, they university said, adding that a working group had been established to consider longer-term solutions for the faith group.

====== 671 ========

NUMBER OF SCHOOL LEAVERS REGISTERED TO VOTE 'PLUMMETS'

Political parties need to do more to engage with young people and encourage them to vote, or risk losing a generation of supporters, campaigners have urged, as the time left for voter registration narrows.

According to the Electoral Reform Society (ERS), young people in the UK face a “voter registration time bomb”, with the number of school leavers registered to vote dropping by more than a quarter over the past three years.

The figures cover the time from when Individual Electoral Registration (IER) was introduced in 2014 – which saw a shift from a single person, usually a parent or lead tenant, registering everyone in the household on their behalf, to each voter having to register individually.

Universities are also no longer able to register student residents automatically – a factor believed to have contributed to the loss of thousands of voters.

The ERS, which campaigns on access to democracy, said while the move to IER had improved the accuracy of the register, it has also led to a “significant fall” in the number of young people on the electoral roll.

Of the nations which introduced IER in 2014, Scotland has seen the biggest drop in the number of “attainers” (16 and 17 year olds on the register), at 35 per cent, followed by Wales (27 per cent) and England (25 per cent).

In Northern Ireland, where the IER system has been in place since 2002, the number of those signed up to vote has fallen by half.

Latest analysis shows the number of attainers registered in Westmorland and Lonsdale, the constituency held by the leader of the Liberal Democrats, Tim Farron, to have dropped by three quarters (75 per cent) over three years.

Other areas to experience a dramatic fall in numbers included Hackney South and Shoreditch, held by Labour MP Meg Hillier, and Conservative MP Anne-Marie Trevelyan’s Berwick-upon-Tweed constituency.

Many of the areas that have seen the biggest drop have large black and minority ethnic communities, such as the Bethnal Green and Bow constituency in London.

This suggests school leavers from already marginalised groups have not re-registered since their parents or guardians stopped signing them up on their behalf, the ERS warned, and many of those people will have turned 18 by 8 June.

Katie Ghose, Chief Executive of the Electoral Reform Society, said: “These findings should sound the alarm to young people across the country that they need to register to vote if they want to have their say on 8 June.

“There is a real risk that this election could be one where the registration time bomb goes off – leaving hundreds of thousands without a voice. The collapse in the number of 16 and 17 year olds on the register in 2016 is a warning sign to anyone who cares about political engagement and young people’s stake in our democracy.

With just one week left for individuals to register in time for the upcoming General Election, campaign groups have called for MPs to take responsibility in what they hope to be the “biggest ever push” to register young people who may have fallen off the electoral role.

“All the evidence shows that voting is habitual,” said Ms Ghose, “if you start young, you’ll vote for life. Today’s findings suggest not enough is being done to ensure Britain’s young people are on the electoral roll.”

Nearly seven million people are either not on the electoral roll or are incorrectly registered, the group leader said. The ERS has called for universities’ powers to sign up their students to be reinstated, as well as moves towards an automatic registration system.

“Whether it’s improving citizenship education, or trialling same-day registration, there is plenty that can be done to revitalise our democratic processes,” said Ms Ghose.

“Whatever the case, we need action – or we risk losing a whole generation of voters.”

Still not registered to vote? Find out how to do so here with our IndyStudent guide

====== 672 ========

HOW TO REVISE: THE ULTIMATE UNIVERSITY EXAM GUIDE

By the time you reach high school, it’s likely the Easter holidays will be associated more with exams and revision than with Easter egg hunts and mythical bunnies.

Before long, students across the country will be facing the (silent) music of the exam hall, and tempting though it may be to bury yourself in bed with your Easter hoard and not reemerge until summer, sadly this is just not a possibility.

Whether you’re sitting GCSEs, A-levels or university exams, the prospect never becomes any less daunting. So while bingeing on Netflix and denying the prospect of imminent exams may sound more appealing, it’s time to take the plunge and let the revision commence.

Just as everyone learns differently, everyone also revises differently, meaning it’s important to bear in mind that what works for the super genius who sits next to you might not necessarily work for you.

Here are some of the best tips to get your brain up to speed and make entering the exam hall a breeze:

1. Use the clock

Set and alarm, get up and get on.

I like to get up and start revising early, as it means that my whole day doesn't become dominated by work and I can have time to relax with my friends or family in the evening, which helps make the process of revision less daunting.

2. Don’t procrastinate

Although easier said than done, resist the urge to check social media and generally put off revision, as this will only draw the process out.

3. Write an exorbitant number of lists

Not only do you get the satisfaction of ticking completed tasks off, but by making lists you are able to prioritise work and maintain focus while revising.

If lists are not your bag, find other ways to combine organisation and reward - make a colourful diagram or decorate a calendar with stickers for each revision success.

4. Make a timetable and stick to it

This tip encompasses the previous three, as by keeping to a timetable you are able to get the most out of the time you have available to you as well as have the ability to factor in more enjoyable things.

Another important point is not to get into the habit of making up for missed sessions in other study sessions. While this might seem like a good idea, allowing missed subjects to seep into time planned for others will only push you further behind in your revision.

If you do miss a scheduled study session maybe try working for an hour longer another day.

5. Find the right environment to revise in

…And claim it as your own! Whether it be your bedroom, dining room or the library having a space which is conducive to revising makes an enormous difference.

Along with this, avoid revising in bed, because I assure you, the temptation to nap will be too strong.

6. Mix up your revision technique

Use your notes, as well as revision guides and practice papers. By using a variety of resources any gaps in your knowledge will be quickly highlighted, hopefully meaning you won’t turn over the exam paper and find a question you don’t know.

This should also helps prevent you from getting too bored.

7. Fuel your body

As the saying goes, you are what you eat. During exam season the temptation to ‘treat yourself’ with chocolate, biscuits, cake etc is overwhelming.

However, where possible, avoid over eating rubbish and instead give your body the nutrients it needs to perform effectively while revising and taking exams.

Equally, make some time to go for a brisk walk and get some fresh air once in a while.

8. Sleep isn’t for the weak

You wouldn’t expect a car to run on no petrol, so don’t expect the same for your body. As with a healthy diet, giving your body what it needs means your hard work won’t be wasted.

9. Manage your expectations

You’re only human after all. It's important to remember that life does not begin or end with exams, and while obviously you want to do your best, remember that if you don't get the results you want, it's not the end of the world.

Nobody's career ever ended due to a missed exam mark.

10. And finally... don’t be a slave to revision

Chaining yourself to your desk for 6 weeks prior to the exams won’t guarantee you the best grade. Revise hard, but also revise effectively so that you can still have time for the more pleasant things in life.

====== 673 ========

NUS MOTION PROPOSES BANNING WHOOPING AND CHEERING AT STUDENT CONFERENCES

A motion proposed by delegates at the National Union of Students (NUS) conference warned there would be "consequences" for students who clap and whoop at future events.

At a conference session earlier this week students were told that whooping had "a serious impact on some delegates ability to access conference.”

Shelly Asquith, the NUS vice president for welfare said they had had "a number of requests" for people to stop".

Attendees were instead encourage to us "jazz hands" - wave their hands in the air - instead of clapping.

Delegates from the University of Durham then proposed a motion which said that all clapping and whooping must be banned at all future NUS events.

The “access needs of disabled students are disregarded/overlooked in terms of conference member behaviour and NUS structures”, it said, adding that this can lead to the “safety and wellbeing” of disabled students being compromised.

So the motion calls for “reduced cheering or unnecessary loud noises on conference floor, including whooping and clapping” and warns of “consequences for those who ignore this requirement”, according to The Daily Telegraph.

Last year delegates banned clapping because they said it could trigger “clap-based anxiety”.

The measure was denounced by critics and social media users who pointed out that such a measure technically discriminates against blind people who cannot hear “jazz hands”.

One commentator on the Reddit website said: “I'm all for being inclusive, but this seems just downright patronising to any actual deaf people. $10 says they didn't actually ask deaf people how they felt about the ‘issue’.”

Another pointed out: “My deaf friends clap at events and have never shown an offence to it... Not sure where these people think they have a right to speak for them.”

The Independent has approached the NUS for comment but none had arrived at the time of publication.

====== 674 ========

UNIVERSITIES GIVEN PERMISSION TO INCREASE TUITION FEES EVERY YEAR

Almost all universities in England have been granted permission to increase tuition fees year-on-year, following new legislation being pushed through Parliament before the general election.

Ministers claim the new legislation comes as part of efforts to improve teaching in higher education, offering greater value for money for new students.

But the Teaching Excellence Framework – designed to monitor quality and allowing institutions to up their fees accordingly – will not be implemented until 2020.

In the meantime, universities can make inflation-linked increases as they choose.

With this year’s undergraduate students expected to pay £9,250 per year in tuition fees alone, concerns are growing for a generation saddled with a lifetime of debt.

Students in England are said to graduate with more money owed than anywhere else in the English-speaking world.

Last month it was revealed students would also be subjected to steeper loan repayment fees, as interest rates rise from 4.6 per cent to 6.1 per cent from the autumn.

The Higher Education and Research Bill has taken months to go through, facing a series of amendments in the House of Lords.

This week the legislation was passed with a series of compromises in a rush to see it put through before the close of Parliament.

Lady Sue Garden, Liberal Democrat lead for Higher Education, told The Independent: “We were intent on removing the link between the flawed TEF metrics and the ability to raise fees. We achieved this, along with a detailed review of the TEF.

"Having fees rise with inflation was something we had to concede – and universities seemed to want this.

"We were at pains throughout the Bill to hear direct from universities as well as from students and to frame amendments which would help preserve the high international reputation of our university sector.

“The unprecedented number of amendments indicates just how ill-conceived parts of this Bill were. That the government accepted so many of them is testimony to the persistence of peers, and to having Ministers who listened.”

Along with the changes in fees, the Bill makes way for the creation of a new Office for Students, which will act as a regulator for higher education in England.

Debating the matter in Parliament earlier in the year, cross-party peers criticised the proposals, claiming the changes allowed for universities to become “marketised” which in turn devalued the reputation of the British degree.

Universities, ministers and influential industry leaders have also campaigned for students not to be included in net migration targets as outlined in the Bill, but the amendment was rejected.

Lord Hannay, who proposed the amendment, told the House this week that the government had threatened to “kill the whole bill” if the amendment remained in place, which “shines a pretty odd light on their priorities”.

“The problem will not go away,” he added.

Conservative and Labour MPs have vowed to continue to fight the decision, however, despite Theresa May’s insistence.

The Independent and the Open Britain group have called for foreign student figures to be removed from net migration figures as part of their Drop the Target campaign against the Government’s goal to reduce net migration to less than 100,000 a year.

Removing foreign students would make the target easier to hit, since some 134,000 have come to the UK to study in the past 12 months – making up around half the total net migration figure for the same period.

The Prime Minister believes changing the system would be seen as “fiddling the figures”, however, and wants to drive down the number of overseas students.

Although the proposal has been rejected, universities believe that a longer-term deal could still be achieved, saying there is an agreement to look again at the data on overseas students and migration.

Dame Julia Goodfellow, president of Universities UK, said she was encouraged by suggestions a longer-term deal could still be achieved.

Universities anticipate that the status of international students could be reconsidered as part of wider reviews of migration during the Brexit negotiations.

The university sector also supported compromises which will set a higher bar for new institutions to gain powers to award degrees and to be given a university title.

Dame Julia said the legislation offered “stability during a time of uncertainty”.

“We agreed there was a need for new legislation, but we had concerns about the original draft bill.

”Thanks to MPs and peers, and the willingness of ministers and officials to engage and listen, the final bill has been significantly improved.“

====== 675 ========

MPS VOW TO FIGHT ON AS THERESA MAY REFUSES TO REMOVE OVERSEAS STUDENTS FROM IMMIGRATION FIGURES

Conservative and Labour MPs have vowed to fight on after Theresa May vetoed a move by her own ministers to take foreign students out of official immigration figures.

The Prime Minister made a small concession to her critics by allowing the new Office for Students, which will increase competition in higher education, to publish separate figures on overseas students. But she overruled senior ministers, including Chancellor Philip Hammond and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, who wanted the students removed from the official immigration statistics.

The Independent and the Open Britain group have called for this to happen as part of their Drop the Target campaign against the Government’s goal to reduce net migration to less than 100,000 a year. Removing foreign students would make the target easier to hit, as 134,000 came to the UK in the 12 months to last September, during which net migration totalled 273,000. But the Prime Minister believed changing the system would be seen as “fiddling the figures” and wants to drive down the number of overseas students.

Her critics argue that treating them as long-term migrants deters some from coming to Britain and that universities are losing out to competitors in countries such as the United States and Germany.

A threatened Conservative backbench rebellion, which could have defeated the Government on the issue, has been defused by Ms May’s decision to call a snap general election.

The House of Lords added an amendment to the Higher Education and Research Bill, stating that overseas students should not be treated as long-term migrants. But that was overturned in the Commons today as the Government rushed through the measure before Parliament is prorogued for the election.

Ben Howlett, a Tory MP leading the rebellion, welcomed the more transparent figures promised as “a significant change of tone from the Government”. But he said the campaign would continue after the election when Parliament debated the new immigration system to take effect after Brexit. The aim was to “make sure that international students are taken out of the overall immigration figures. It is very peculiar that they are still included”.

Gordon Marsden, Labour’s higher education spokesman, said the party would campaign for students to be removed from the statistics during the election. He told Jo Johnson, the Universities Minister, who had backed the proposed change, that he had been “sat on from a great height by No 10 and the Home Office”. He criticised Ms May for stamping on any dissent, claiming the Tory party is “split down the middle” on the issue.

Mr Johnson insisted the Government valued foreign students, welcomed their economic and cultural contribution and would not impose a cap on their numbers. He said the independent Office for National Statistics classified the students as migrants, a move in line with United Nations practice.

====== 676 ========

FURTHER EDUCATION UNDERDOG SHAKIRA MARTIN WINS NUS PRESIDENCY

Further education advocate Shakira Martin has won the National Union of Students presidential election for 2017.

Following a strongly contested campaign, Ms Martin, 28, was elected with 56 per cent of the student vote, beating Tom Harwood and last year’s controversial winner Malia Bouattia.

Defining herself as a black single mother from a working-class family, Ms Martin said further education had been a “lifeline” for her and her family.

Speaking to The Independent before the results were announced, Ms Martin said she had been inspired to run in the election after speaking to students who said they felt increasingly disenfranchised and disconnected from the union.

“I want to put the NUS back into the hands of its membership and send the message to the heart of the government about what students want,” she said.

Formerly the vice president for further education (FE), Ms Martin has pledged to “expose and demolish class barriers to education” and ensure FE students are better represented in the NUS.

Approximately 4.1 million members of the union are in college or further education rather than universities – a fact she says is all too often ignored.

Following the announcement of her victory, she said: “I am honoured and humbled to have been elected as NUS national president.

“I take this as a vote of trust that our members believe I can lead our national movement to be the fighting and campaigning organisation we need it to be, representing the breadth of our diverse membership.

“Further education made me who I am today and I look forward to sharing stories of just how powerful all forms of education can be when we’re all given access to it. During my term in office I want to spend my time listening, learning and leading.”

Drawing on her own experiences as a single mother entering education, Ms Martin said she chose to focus her campaign on the difference education and student unions could make to individuals.

“Over the past couple of years, I’ve spoken to so many students across the country who have said that the NUS is out of touch with its members and out of touch with students and not fighting for the issues that students care about,” she told The Independent.

Her comments come in the wake of Malia Bouattia’s controversial leadership which saw student unions across the country become increasingly divided.

Ms Bouattia faced damning criticism and a parliament-led investigation last year after she was accused of anti-Semitism by the Jewish student community.

The then leader denied the allegations, criticising media outlets for calling her “a racist, an anti-Semite, an Isis sympathiser, and more”.

The House of Commons home affairs committee concluded that comments made by Ms Bouattia describing Birmingham University as a “Zionist outpost” smacked of “outright racism”.

In an interview with The Independent during the run-up to Wednesday’s vote, Ms Bouattia said she recognised the comments from six years ago were “incredibly clumsy” and said she hoped students would recognise her more recent work fighting hate-crime within the student community.

As its first Muslim female president, the NUS said it “applauds” Ms Bouattia’s work to make the movement “more diverse, ensuring the organisation is representative of the students it represents”.

Ms Bouattia received 272 votes from the 721 delegates – 130 fewer than Ms Martin. Satirical video campaigner Tom Harwood was the least successful, coming away with just 35 votes.

His sharp rise to fame followed claims he could “defeat Isis” and lower the cost of Freddos in his initial NUS delegate campaign.

Mr Harwood, a 20-year-old politics student at the University of Durham, led his presidential campaign with the promise he would work to reunite the student union, which he said was “in crisis” and had been “hijacked” by the left.

He had previously run the “Students for Britain” campaign during the EU referendum, encouraging students to vote for Brexit.

Speaking to The Independent before the NUS conference he said: “The NUS has failed in including students in the movement. Nationwide, turnouts in NUS delegate elections are pitifully low, it is common for turnouts to be below 5 per cent. This is not good enough.”

“It seems that every week there’s a new anti-Semitism scandal,” he added, “and the current leadership of NUS is refusing to change. Intimidation is rife, and the hard factional politics push students away.”

Over 1,200 students, elected officers and campaigners from higher and further education, including apprentices, from across the UK are spending this week in Brighton to debate and decide on key policy issues affecting students.

Last year a number of student unions across the country voted to disafilliate with the NUS, including the universities of Cambridge, Lincoln and Loughborough.

====== 677 ========

UK BEST UNIVERSITIES 2018 REVEALED

Cambridge University has been named the best in the UK for student satisfaction and employment prospects, beating its Oxford counterpart.

The Complete University Guide 2018 shows an improving picture for students looking to apply for courses next year.

Experts devising the annual league table said there was evidence of a more positive graduate employment forecast and increased spending by universities on student facilities and services.

Cambridge holds on to first place for the seventh year in a row, with Oxford University in second place for the fourth.

Authors behind the rankings noted the institution as having the highest entry standards of all universities, and a top score for "research intensity" showing that nearly all staff are active in research.

The findings echo those of a separate, global league table published in November which named Cambridge University as one of the best institutions in the world for graduate employability.

Although the universities comprising the top ten remain the same as last year, the order in which they are ranked has changed.

This year St Andrews jumped to third place for the first time out of 129 UK institutions, and University College London has climbed three places to seventh.

Loughborough has fallen three places to tenth, while the London School of Economics (fourth) and Imperial College London (fifth) have both fallen by one place.

Professor Sally Mapstone, principal of St Andrews University, said: “This all-time high is a great endorsement of what St Andrews stands for.

”Our values are those of a small, Scottish and highly international university. We are outward looking, inclusive and focused on excellence.

She added: “That Scottish universities have done so well in three of the key measures here is notable.

”Brexit and its consequences notwithstanding, Scottish universities will strive to continue to outperform and we look for meaningful support to enable us to do so.“

Two new institutions join the rankings for 2018 – Birkbek, University of London, enteres in 115th place and the University of Suffolk enters in 129th.

The most dramatic improvement according to the league table criteria comes from the University of West London, which has climbed 26 places to 80th for 2018.

Taking into consideration student satisfaction alone, St Andrews comes third one again, beaten to the top by Liverpool Hope in second place and the University of Buckingham in first.

Imperial College London remains top in terms of research quality, and St George’s, University of London, is ranked in first place for graduate prospects.

Responding to the new tables, Sir Anthony Seldon, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Buckingham, said: “Our enviable staff to student ratio, which is among the best, and continually leading the way in graduate employability means that our students rank their experience at Buckingham very highly.

"Our students recognise the fact that they are taught by leading academics who care for them and know how to teach; it helps build the uniquely friendly learning community which is the secret of the Buckingham success story.”

Dr Bernard Kingston, Chairman of The Complete University Guide, said: “This year there is a considerable degree of stability at the upper end of the league table, as in the past.

“This stability, while it may not attract the headlines, demonstrates that the rankings fulfil our principal objective – to provide credible and freely accessible information for individuals seeking a university place.”

Read more: The student guide on how to register to vote for the general election

====== 678 ========

WHO IS CHALLENGING THE CONTROVERSIAL NUS PRESIDENT MALIA BOUATTIA? A LOOK AT THE 2017 CANDIDATES

Following a year of radical political change and ongoing racial tensions, students from across the country will soon cast their votes in the National Union of Students presidential election.

Controversial leader Malia Bouattia, who was elected as the first black female Muslim president last year, stands again alongside Further Education champion Shakira Martin and wildcard vlogger Tom Harwood, who made his name known through viral videos and a pledge to stop Isis.

The three candidates make for one of the most diverse election line-ups in NUS history – but who are the characters behind the cause? The Independent speaks to all three hopefuls to find out…

Malia Bouattia (Current president)

Age: 30

Campaign tagline: “Malia for a Strong, Transformative Union”

Manifesto in a nutshell: Fighting against the HE Bill and Prevent, supporting trade unions to halt job cuts and college closures

USP: Grassroots voice of the student left

Why should you be president?

Given the political context we’re in and the massive uncertainty, I’m the one with the strongest track record who has literally dedicated my life to fight for education. My parents gave up everything fleeing Algeria to come here so that I could study in safety. So it’s kind of been instilled in me from a very young age what the value of education is and people’s right to access it.

How are you different to the other candidates?

I’m sure all the candidates are dedicated to the future of education, but at this point given the uncertainty from the Brexit negations, to how the HE bill is going to play out and the cuts to our colleges and snap general election, it’s question of who’s going to come into that position of leadership and hit the ground running and do what it is necessary to ensure that students remain on top of the agenda.

How will you continue the fight for international students?

One of our crucial campaigns this year has been to ensure that international student numbers are removed from net immigration. We’ve seen the defeat in relation to that in the Lords but it’s about continuing to apply that pressure… I’m literally fighting individual deportation cases and ensuring the full weight of our union is behind international student.

How will you ensure student voices are heard in the general election?

In my plan of action this year we envisioned a snap election. We will ensure that we have massive voter registration drives, that we ally with all the groups from Bite the Ballot to Operation Black Vote and many others. [In terms of student political engagement] I’ll just keep going until it’s at 100 per cent.

How do you react to the disaffiliation of some student unions from the NUS in the past year?

[As] a presidential candidate I knew it was coming and it was one of the reasons I chose to stand. I understood there was discontent around value for money, around whether our democracy was accessible and available to everyone and engaging and whether our campaigns were relevant to the issues on the ground. We have had around 22 referendums and a huge majority chose to stay. I think those frustrations haven’t gone away. I’ve used my platform and my leadership this year to ensure that they are heard and addressed.

What is your proudest achievement as president?

There’s so many. I think having an NUS that is finally fighting alongside students and making the case for a free education.

On an international scale that I’ve been building relationships with unions across Europe because I knew that had to happen following Brexit, that we needed to rely on our European counterparts to ensure continued flow of research and exchange and placements and even employment and beyond that.

Do you regret some of the controversial statements that you’ve made (ie, allegations of anti-Semitism which were investigated last year)?

The comments were made almost 6 years ago and I recognise they were incredibly clumsy and I’ve apologised for it in the past as well. I guess what I hope people look at now is my actions and how I’ve prioritised fighting hate crime within our project of work within NUS and I’ve been one of the only presidents in recent history to do so.

Anything you’d like to add?

We’ve dealt with a lot of silencing and demonisation and hostility yet we continue to prove those myths wrong. We’re always there to fight whether its related to the future of our NHS or education as we know it, the shutting down of detention centres, we’re an incredible force made of many different people and I think the continuous attempts to homogenise us with what we think, what we want to do, what we’re about is a false and destructive one and I am looking forward to continuing to prove all those myths and actually build a base and revive our movement to its full potential.

Shakira Martin

Age: 29

Campaign tagline: Making Education an Option for Everyone

Manifesto in a nutshell: Expose and demolish class barriers in all forms of education, tackle student homelessness, anonymise Ucas applications system

Current role: Vice president for Further Education (FE)

USP: Vince Cable is officially a fan

What inspired you to run?

Over the past couple of years, I’ve spoken to so many students across the country who have said that the NUS is out of touch with its members and out of touch with students and not fighting for the issues that students care about. I want to put the NUS back into the hands of its membership and send the message to the heart of the government about what students want.

And what do students want?

The cost of living is too high – it’s leaving students in too much debt, they want support throughout their studies They want scholarships for postgraduate and student carers and student parents, they want an NUS that invests its money into developing resources to support student causes on the ground locally. They ultimately want an NUS that isn’t divided, that looks after the interest of all its students. They want a union that can show true leadership and doesn’t put politics before students.

Presumably a big part of that for you is making sure FE isn’t pushed out of the debate?

One hundred per cent. Approximately 4.1 million NUS members are from FE backgrounds so it’s definitely going to be my priority to ensure they are at the heart of the student movement. It’s about helping everyone’s journey.

What would you most like to change?

It’s about making our voice heard externally, but also it’s about time we had an NUS that was helping all students gain access to an education.

How would you help unite the student body?

By listening to what peoples’ priorities are, learning from the past mistakes made and leading a strong campaign to make changes to legislation to break down the barriers students face within their education.

How would you put pressure on the Government to protect international students?

This is a major concern as we leave the EU and it’s vital we continue the campaign to get international students removed from immigration figures and protect their rights to work and study here.

Why should people vote for you?

With my work in the NUS I’ve already put FE back on the agenda and secured a £500m investment into further education. But I believe what makes me different from the other candidates is my background. I’ve overcome adversity and I’m from a working class family. I came into this movement with nothing and because of that I’m very much a people before politics kind of person. I have a record of fighting for students at all levels. I understand the purpose of the NUS and if I was elected I would make sure it was at the forefront of everything I do.

I am a single parent and I have faced challenges, but the NUS has helped me and now I can appreciate my privileges and help others in return. I will bring the energy and fun back into the student community.

Tom Harwood

Age: 20

Campaign tagline: “For a Credible, Inclusive NUS”

Manifesto in a nutshell: To make the NUS “inclusive”, tackle mental health stigmas, combat sexism, fight anti-Semitism

Current role: Second-year politics student at Durham University

USP: Penchant for satirical campaign videos

Why should students vote for you?

The NUS is in crisis and it’s failing students. I’m standing to re-legitimise a movement that has so alienated the majority of students in this country. We have to become more moderate, inclusive, and credible as a national union. We have to change now otherwise more university SUs will leave and NUS will continue to fail students on the real issues of living costs, anti-Semitism, and housing.

You've said the NUS is in "crisis"; what do you think is so broken about student politics?

The NUS has failed in including students in the movement. Nationwide, turnouts in NUS delegate elections are pitifully low, it is common for turnouts to be below 5 per cent. This is not good enough. It seems that every week there’s a new anti-Semitism scandal, and the current leadership of NUS is refusing to change. Intimidation is rife, and the hard factional politics push students away.

By allowing all students to vote for an NUS president we can take it back to reality. We can push power out of the hands of self serving factions and to the students we are supposed to represent.

The Times called your candidacy a “manifesto of mockery”. Are you a serious contender?

My campaign is certainly fun and engaging but that I don’t take serious issues very seriously. The comical pledges in my manifesto effectively and poignantly satirise the silly motions the NUS has discussed and passed in recent years. Students understand this and when they see my comical pledges alongside my serious ones, they know I am the right choice for NUS President.

Do you think your sense of humour makes you more approachable, or easier for students to get behind?

For too long NUS has only spoken to itself and refused to engage beyond its narrow bubble. I have taken my campaign to students who have been alienated and rejected by the current leadership of NUS, and spoken directly. That’s why the only SU that has primary elections for who their students want to be president, the University of Manchester students' union, overwhelmingly backed my campaign.

Are students politically engaged enough?

We can be, but sadly too many are alienated by the out of touch leadership of student political institutions. My NUS would aim to engage all students, and be ferociously non-partisan in doing so.

Do you think students will be fairly represented in the upcoming election? Or should they spoil their ballots?

It’s not for me to tell students to vote for any one party, but what I would say is the reason all parties have got it wrong on student issues is that we don’t engage or vote in the numbers we should. I would encourage all students to vote for all parties and none, to stand up and be counted, so our vote becomes more valuable to all politicians.

You said you were ready to call out anti-Semitism. Is there a danger you will ruffle feathers on the other end of the scale to Malia?

I believe I would not be doing my job as NUS president if I was not ready to work wit Jewish students to combat anti-Semitism. I’m not afraid to speak truth to power within the NUS on this. It’s clear there is an institutional problem and it has to be tackled head on.

Students: Still not registered to vote? Here's how

====== 679 ========

JAPANESE PRINCESS KAKO OF AKISHONO TO ATTEND UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS

The University of Leeds will be welcoming royalty onto its campus this September when Japanese princess Kako arrives to study.

Princess Kako of Akishono, the 22-year-old granddaughter of Emperor Akihito, is enrolling at the university for a year as an exchange student, according to the Imperial Household Agency.

The princess has not decided which course she will study during her year abroad but she is said to be interested in psychology and art, according to the Japan Times.

The princess has previously attended the International Christian University (ICU) in Tokyo and the Gakushuin University. She will return to Japan next summer after completing her exchange in the UK.

Her older sister, princess Mako, also spent her third year at ICU abroad in the UK, studying at the University of Edinburgh, according to The Mainichi.

Princess Mako later returned to the UK and studied at the University of Leicester two years ago.

Her year in Leicester was completed as a regular student, with the Imperial Household Agency choosing not to announce the news of the princess’s choice of university until she had completed her Masters of Art in Museum and Gallery Studies.

====== 680 ========

STUDENTS SHOULDN'T WORRY ABOUT FINDING A JOB WHILE STUDYING, SAYS UCAS HEAD

Students should not bother with looking for a job until months after graduating, the outgoing head of Ucas has said.

Mary Curnock Cook warned middle-class parents and universities have become “too fixated” on careers, placing unnecessary pressure on young people to apply for jobs too soon.

Instead, students could benefit from some “down-time” by moving back home after their final exams, she said.

Choosing to go to university is a “life-changing decision” but can be a disaster if it is not an “informed choice”, she added.

Speaking to the Daily Telegraph, Ms Curnock Cook said going to university is a “life-changing decision” but could be disastrous if it is not an “informed choice”.

“It's about broadening your horizons,” she added, “it's too utilitarian to think you've got to go to university and then land a career straight after that. It's terribly unhelpful.

“Students may need to take some down-time after the stresses of finals and dissertations. I don't think there's any harm in doing temporary, voluntary or non-graduate work to fill the gap before finding something more permanent.

”You have plenty of time to figure out how to be successful in the workplace, so I think obsession with graduate employment within six months is unhelpful.“

The university admissions leader, who will step down from her role at the end of April, said there was a trail of thought which suggests university is a ”golden thread“ to having a career - but added that young people get the most out of their time at university when studying something which motivates them.

Responding to Ms Curnock Cook's comments, James Uffindell, founder and CEO of Bright Network careers and recruitment body said while some respite was sensible, students should not become complacent in their job hunting.

"In an ideal world, six months out is a good idea however in a competitive jobs market, students need to stay ahead of the game," he warned.

"At the moment, there isn’t time for students to take time out. They need to take the bull by the horns and use their time at university to explore their options and make connections to avoid being left behind after graduating, not wait six valuable months to get onto the careers ladder.’

Figures released by Ucas in February showed the number of would-be students applying for university had dropped for the third time in 15 years.

Around 30,000 fewer people had applied to start degree courses this autumn by January 15 - the main deadline for submitting applications.

Overall, 564,190 people applied to UK universities and colleges, down 5 per cent from the same point in 2016.

It was the third fall in applicant numbers since 2002, and the biggest since 2012 - the year that tuition fees in England were trebled to £9,000. The other drop was in 2006, when fees were raised to £3,000.

Speaking at the time, Ms Curnock Cook said: ”Despite the overall decrease, it is encouraging that the number of 18-year-old applicants remains high, and that application rates for disadvantaged groups continue to rise.

“However, we are seeing large falls for older applicants, partly because of strong young recruitment in recent years depleting the pool of potential mature applicants, and probably also reflecting increased employment, the higher minimum wage, and more apprenticeship opportunities.”

Clare Marchant, who is the currently the chief executive of Worcestershire County Council, will succeed Ms Curnock Cook in May.

Additional reporting by PA

====== 681 ========

GENERAL ELECTION: MALE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS MORE LIKELY TO VOTE TORY THAN FEMALE PEERS

Male students are far more likely to vote Conservative than their female peers, exclusive new data can reveal, highlighting a stark gender divide in voting intentions in the run up to the general election.

Research collected by The Student Room shows the vast majority of the student body feels ignored by the current Government, with eight out of 10 claiming they do not feel represented and that not enough attention is paid to their views.

The survey of more than 1000 students eligible to vote found the majority lean towards Labour, with 41.7 per cent of students polled pledging to vote for the Opposition Party come June.

While almost half of female students said they favoured Labour (48.6 per cent), only one fifth said they planned to vote Tory, compared with more than a third (36.6 per cent) of males.

Last year some 94 per cent of the eligible student population registered to vote for the EU referendum, but more than a million were left disappointed by the result.

Similarly, the 2015 general election saw students and young people bucking the national trend by voting largely in favour of Labour (around 43 per cent), but their numbers were not enough to counteract the strong Conservative pensioner vote.

Correspondingly, the recent figures from The Student Room found more than 70 per cent of male students and 85.5 per cent of females said they did not feel "personally represented" by today's Government.

When asked who they would most likely vote for by the student community forum, one respondent commented: “Probably no one... the safe conservative seat that I live in is probably as safe as it's ever been.

"The most worthwhile use of my vote, once again, would appear to be a vote against First Past the Post by not taking part at all.

They added: “I've got an exam the next day, so I think I’ll put my time to better use than pretending like I have a say in all this.”

“None of them,” said another. “It's so frustrating to not have any party that actually represents me and that I can vote for. Maybe if there's a strong local independent candidate I might change my mind.”

Who do you plan to vote for? Total Male Female Conservatives 27.06% (250) 36.56% (136) 20.81% (113) Labour 41.67% (385) 31.72% (118) 48.62% (264) Liberal Democrats 15.58% (144) 18.55% (69) 13.63% (74) Green Party 5.19% (48) 3.76% (14) 6.08% (33) Ukip 1.41% (13) 2.69% (10) 0.37% (2) SNP 1.30% (12) 1.08% (4) 1.10% (6) Spoil ballot 0.54% (5) 0.81% (3) 0.37% (2) Other 7.25% (67) 4.84% (18) 9.02% (49)

Despite voiced frustrations, the majority of students responding to the online poll agreed with Theresa May’s decision to call an early election – with 72 per cent in favour,

Other findings suggested a comeback for the Liberal Democrat vote among young people, with 19.5 per cent of the male student vote and 11.5 per cent of female respondents saying they planned to vote for them.

Around five per cent said they planned to vote for the Green Party, around 1.4 per cent favoured Ukip, 1.3 per cent for the SNP and only a handful - less than 0.6 per cent - said they planned to spoil their ballot in protest.

This compares positively to the 2015 general election, when Liberal Democrats only received 5 per cent of the 18-24 vote.

Jack Wallington, Director of Community at The Student Room, commented: “Youth voter interest in June’s shock general election is high but a huge majority - eight in ten - currently feel the Government doesn’t pay attention to their views and therefore doesn’t represent them.

“For political parties hurriedly working on their manifestos, there is a window of opportunity to change this – winning the youth vote – by openly and publicly speaking to young voters right now. This will help shape manifestos to match the genuine need of young people, bucking the trend that politicians don’t care about their opinions.”

Still not registered to vote? Find out how to do so here with our simple guide

====== 682 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY UNDER FIRE FOR OFFERING £500 'BRITISH HISTORY' ESSAY PRIZE, BUT ONLY £75 FOR 'AFRICAN' EQUIVALENT

The University of Oxford has come under fire after it came to students’ attention that a “British history” essay prize offers a substantially higher reward that its “African history” counterpart.

Undergraduates submitting their thesis for the Arnold Modern Historical British history award can win prize of £500, while the Kirk-Greene African history award winning essay can only win a reward of £75.

Second-year History undergraduate Billy Nuttall exposed the difference in prize money in a post on Facebook group Race Matters, created by students at the top institution to discuss issues of racial identity and racial representation in every areas including education.

In the post, he said: “Christ Oxford. rewards for best undergraduate thesis in British history, £500. Award for best in African history? £75…”

The message sparked reaction from more than 140 users – some defending the disparity between the two prizes, arguing that it was no surprise since the university was of ancient British origins itself.

Speaking to The Independent, Mr Nuttall, 20, said such disputes were more not uncommon and highlighted a deeper issue with racism on campus.

“People of black and ethnic minorities in Oxford feel “alienated”, he said, “the victim of constant micro aggression which make them uncomfortable.

“This situation regarding Thesis awards highlights this issue, but it is far from an isolated example.

“The university is attempting to make progress on such issues, but they need to improve their dialogue with BME students at the university in order to make progress on issues important to them,” he added.

At the beginning of the new term, Oxford University’s equality and diversity unit issued guidance to staff highlighting a problem with casual racism, or “micro-aggressions” on campus.

Scholars were warned they could be seen as displaying racist behaviour if they fail to look a student in the eye, or make jokes or comment on foreign accents.

Commenting on the History prizes, another student, Princess Ashilokun, said: “The disrespect has been monetised.”

Speaking to The Tab, she added: “Enough is enough, Oxford needs to get its act together, it talks about diversity and inclusivity when it actually has neither; if the university really wanted to change its attitude and start decolonising this space, with all the resources it has acquired, it would have done so by now.

“It’s up to us the students to start the change we want to see.”

Mr Nuttall said the difference in prize money was actively damaging to the university’s reputation and “sends a message to BME students globally that their history is not as important as British history”.

Responding to the concerns outlined, a university spokesman said the discrepancy had come about because the prize money came from independent sources, but that the institution had pledged to make up some of the difference.

In a statement, Oxford’s History Faculty said: ‘“Both prizes are funded by external donations, not by the History Faculty, and the discrepancy in their value is simply because one donation was considerably larger than the other.

“But we are conscious of this inequality and, as of this year, we are using our own funds to increase the Kirk Greene Prize for Modern African History to £150, in line with other prizes that are funded by the Faculty including the Modern European History prize.

“Increasing the prominence of African history at Oxford is a priority of the History Faculty. We are currently fundraising for a scholarship in African history for graduate students, we are engaged in curriculum reform which brings African history more prominently into our undergraduate curriculum, and we are participating in a project to create a new GCSE in African history.”

====== 683 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY STAFF WARNED NOT LOOKING A STUDENT IN THE EYE IS 'RACIST'

Staff at the University of Oxford have been warned they may be displaying racist behaviour if they fail to look another student in the eye or talk to them directly in conversation.

Scholars have also been told to cut out casual racism, for instance asking a black or ethnic minority student where they are “originally” from or joking about a foreign-sounding accent.

The warning comes as part of an anti-racism briefing circulated by the institution’s equality and diversity unit the new term newsletter.

Officials highlight that such “micro-aggressions” are inappropriate and can lead to mental ill health in some students, but critics have called the instructions patronising and claim they are in violation of free speech.

“Sometimes called ‘micro-aggressions’, subtle everyday racism can appear trivial,” the newsletter said. “But repeated micro-aggressions can be tiring and alienating (and can lead to mental ill health).

“Racial micro-aggressions might include not making eye contact or speaking directly to people; not believing someone is British (‘Where are you from? No, I mean originally . . .’); ‘jokes’ drawing attention to someone’s difference, their accent or nationality.”

The newsletter said that it was working to address the issue by raising awareness “of this type of subtle racism” in its training for people working within the university.

“Some people who do these things may be entirely well-meaning and would be mortified to realise that they had caused offence,” it said. “But this is of little consequence if a possible effect of their words or actions is to suggest to people that they may fulfil a negative stereotype, or do not belong.”

Tom Slater, co-ordinator of The Free Speech University Ranking (FSUR) project that highlights censorship on university campuses, said it was ridiculous to suggest that not looking someone in the eye was a form of racism, however.

“This is all part of a chilling desire on the part of university authorities to police not just opinions, but everyday conversations between students,” he told The Times.

“It’s not only deeply authoritarian, it has a chilling effect on how students interact with one another.

A report from the FSUR group last year named Oxford University as one of the most restrictive in the country for free speech.

A university spokeswoman said: “The equality and diversity unit works with university bodies to ensure that the university’s pursuit of excellence goes hand in hand with freedom from discrimination and equality of opportunity and the newsletter is one way of advising and supporting staff towards achieving these aims.”

====== 684 ========

HOW IMPOSTER SYNDROME IS HOLDING MILLENIALS BACK

My boss asked me to give a marketing presentation at a financial institution on behalf of our law firm last year.

I arrived at the bank where I was scheduled to sell our commercial services to a room of financial managers and knocked on the glass door.

A man pulled open the door and hurriedly said to me: “You’re going to have to wait outside until the bank opens. Everyone is upstairs at a conference”. Then he closed the door in my face.

I called the manager, who organised my presentation. She apologetically rushed down to find me. The man who had denied me access to the building was embarrassed, and I thanked him for his (patronising) help.

I wondered if my pencil skirt made the man think I couldn’t possibly be the lawyer they were expecting. I should have worn that pant suit. I wondered if I looked too young. I wondered if it was my girlish tone. I even wondered if it was the colour of my skin.

Whatever the reason, his dismissal of my presence only encouraged my flailing self-perception. I was already anxious that I didn’t belong, that I was an imposter, not accomplished enough to give this presentation.

Unfortunately, these moments of uncertainty are not exclusive to me, or to many millennials. People assume UK’s brightest young adults are assured, capable, and burning with self-confidence, but research proves otherwise, with twelve million people aged 18-34 suffering from “confidence gremlins” that attempt to undermine them at work.

Imposter Syndrome is a term coined in 1978 by psychologists, Pauline Clance and Suzanne Imes, that refers to the psychological phenomenon, common among high achievers, which is characterised by intense feelings of intellectual fraudulence.

Although not a new concept, recent studies commissioned by career development agency Amazing If, found a third of millennials suffer from “Imposter Syndrome” at work, emphasising a severe lack of confidence affecting young people in the UK.

Research shows that imposter syndrome is characterised by feelings of anxiety. It's the feeling that you’ve bluffed your way into your situation, that you are not as talented as everyone believes, that you don’t deserve the achievements you have accomplished, that your success was down to luck and that soon, your lack of ability is going to be exposed.

No one can be sure what the exact causes for this phenomenon are, but the pressures of perfection, ever-increasing social comparisons, the competitive nature of specialist professions and fear of failure are all cited as contributing factors.

Ben Upton, an MA student at City University, recalls feeling like an imposter when teaching English at a University in China last year. He was praised for doing a good job by his bosses but still felt like he wasn’t qualified for it.

“Suddenly I was launched into a position where I was teaching English to adults. Some were older than me. I felt like I slipped through the system, how did I get here,” he said.

The frustrating irony is that getting better at your job doesn’t seem to make the syndrome go away. The higher you climb up the corporate ladder, the more likely you are to find yourself in a state of on-going growth and discomfort.

Ben thinks imposter syndrome is a problem rendered more acute by social media, which forces us to present to the world a “carefully curated collage” of our lives, rather than the full messy picture.

“Everyone plays down their efforts but plays up their achievements. Our peers on social media present a brand, a perception that often isn’t in line with reality. But some people tend to forget that and compare themselves to these brands. It creates an unhealthy expectation for young people of themselves,” says Mr Upton.

“Since we all try to present ourselves as remarkable, the benchmark has risen to an unobtainable standard. It’s impossible to be truly remarkable in our generation.”

​Leonore Schick, an Oxford graduate, says imposter syndrome is linked to the gig economy that generates constant changing careers and uncertainty in many millennials.

“We have an abundance of career options, with no financial follow up. The generations before us experienced an improving financial outlook, whereas these days, intelligent accomplished young people work for free to boost their profile," she says.

"We exist in a highly competitive environment and people are constantly reminding us that we are the best. That has got to be damaging and confusing to our mental health and self-esteem."

Ms Schick is referring to millennials as members of the trophy generation, raised by parents who send mixed messages of praise and criticism. According to American Psychological Association, this largely increases the risk of imposter syndrome.

Sabrina Dougall, a freelance journalist, believes gender inequality still plays a large part in fuelling imposter syndrome among young women.

“I work in central London where the male working professionals largely outweigh the female. In the CBD, I sometimes feel apologetic as a woman for no reason. Sometimes I put my head down because I feel like I’m being judged,” she admits.

Studies show that Imposter syndrome affects more woman than men, with some 40 per cent of young female professionals saying they felt intimidated by senior people, compared with just 22 per cent of males.

Cary Curtis, managing director of graduate recruitment agency Give A Grad A Go, said: “The anxiety of being ‘exposed as a fraud’ is extremely common amongst graduates and lack of experience could be the main culprit, especially for those who are moving into roles within highly competitive industries.”

For me, even years in and out of the working world, you think I’d be used to it. In fact, the imposter syndrome has not gone away, but I’ve learnt to think of it as a strength. Feeling a little like an imposter makes me strive to do better, to always be pushing myself.

Sometimes it’s terrifying to feel a fraud in your job, but it’s even more terrifying to confront the truth that everyone is also just winging it.

====== 685 ========

STUDENT VOTERS: HOW TO REGISTER FOR THE 2017 GENERAL ELECTION

The Prime Minister has called for a snap election to be held on June 8 this year, to allow her to “make a success of Brexit”.

It’s a crucial time for many reasons, and with just seven weeks allocated to secure voters, party campaigners are going to be throwing themselves at students at every opportunity.

But why should you care, you might ask? Well, let’s take a moment to recap on the last time the British public were let loose with their democratic right to vote.

Last June’s EU referendum left more than one million young people disappointed and angry at the Leave result.

18-24 year-olds were the least likely to have their wishes recognised, with 85 per cent of undergraduate students voting to Remain.

Seemingly, even those who voted to Leave were shocked by the results – with more than 17 per cent of student Leavers admitting they would change their vote if they could.

And of course for the 700,000 Brits who have turned 18 since the last election, this is your chance to make your Brexit protests known in the only way that really counts – voting.

Make sure your opinion is counted in the General Election by registering to vote. Here’s how:

Am I eligible to vote?

You can vote in the referendum if you’re registered and are 18 or over on the day of the vote. You must be one of the following:

• A British citizen living in the UK

• A Commonwealth citizen living in the UK who has leave to remain in the UK or who does not require leave to remain in the UK

• A British citizen living overseas who has been registered to vote in the UK in the last 15 years

• An Irish citizen living overseas who was born in Northern Ireland and who has been registered to vote in Northern Ireland in the last 15 years

How do I register?

If you registered to vote in last year’s local and mayoral elections, you may not need to re-register.

Otherwise, you can register online here: gov.uk/register-to-vote

You will need your National Insurance number and your passport.

Note: If you’ve moved home since the last time you voted, then you will need to re-register at your new property.

I am a student living away from home. Where can I register to vote?

A student who has a permanent home address and a term-time address can be lawfully registered at both.

What’s more, if you’re registered to vote in two different electoral areas, you are eligible to vote in local elections for the two different local councils.

BUT not at the same time. Voting twice in any one election is an offence and leave you with a fine of up to £5,000.

What if I still don’t know whether I’m registered?

Every local authority holds the electoral register for their area. You can contact your local registration office and they will be able to let you know if you are registered.

To find the contact details of your local office, enter your postcode here on the Electoral Commission’s website.

I’m registered, now how do I vote?

You can vote in the general election come June 8 in the following ways:

In person at your local polling station – you can find the location on the Electoral Commission’s website closer to voting day.

Details of the nearest polling station will most likely be shown to you on the back of your polling card, which you’ll receive in the post.

But I was planning to be eyeballs-deep in mud at the Isle of Wight Festival by then?

In England, Scotland and Wales, you can register to vote by post if you’re unable to vote in person on the day.

For a postal vote you will need to download this form and send it to your local registration office (mentioned above).

Your local council will then send you a ballot paper by post, which you will need to send back. This must done done in advance – all postal vote requests need to arrive at the office a few days before the election.

Isn’t there another way?

If you can’t vote by either of these methods, you can apply to vote by proxy – which means allowing somebody you trust to vote on your behalf.

This can be due to a disability, or if you’re abroad, or away on a course for work or university.

After completing the right form, you'll need to print it, sign it, and send it back to your local electoral registration office.

The deadline is usually 5pm, six working days before the poll. So don’t leave it too late. Your country needs you.

====== 686 ========

HOW TO APPLY FOR A POSTGRADUATE DEGREE

Curious about further study? Worried your first degree won’t be as shiny in a few years? Read on for a crash course on postgraduate study.

Beyond the bureaucracy of UCAS, the Masters application process is a patchwork of procedures, each particular to the institution of your choice.

It can feel like a minefield, but there are at least a few things every MA and MSc course will expect of applicants, and a few questions every potential postgraduate should ask themselves.

Why should I do a Masters?

According to the Office of National Statistics, around half of us are now doing undergraduate degrees. While first degrees still open doors, the days when a BA after your name set you apart are fading fast.

This doesn’t mean that ‘BAs are BS’. Many employers are very happy to take in fresh undergraduates, and the better ones often offer additional training, just like many employers will gladly take on apprentices who avoid university altogether.

However, for certain careers, particularly those in the technical professions, a postgraduate degree can be a great way to launch yourself down your chosen career path.

The best way to know if a Master’s a necessary, or even helpful in achieving your ambitions, is to pick up the phone and call someone doing that job already.

Don’t just look up a course and take the institution's word for it - they’ll gladly take your 10 grand with the vague promise of personal betterment. If you want to get your money’s worth you’ll need to speak to someone who’s been there and done it.

How do I find a great course?

It’s worth asking employers or other people within the industry which courses and institutions they look for in applicants. This might be a separate phone call from the one you made to your role model, seeing if an MA was worthwhile - hiring managers may have a more up to date picture of the best courses.

Luckily, this is 2017, and there are a few good search engines you can consult to compare any recommendations you get from people in the know.

Remember that none of these search engines can be relied upon to list all the courses available, and each will have their own (possibly dubious) methods of ranking the results.

All of the engines listed here pull course descriptions and data from the institutional websites, and most allow candidates to search by subject, location, course type and study type.

While they’re not at the heart of the postgraduate application process, UCAS have built a clear, functional search engine for courses. There’s a useful selection of toggles to narrow your search if you’re starting with a subject area.

The Department for Education-backed graduate recruitment site Prospects has built and equally clean and useful engine, their gushing university profiles actually have a lot of useful information as well.

If you prefer to go private, the advertising-funded FindaMasters and PostgraduateSearch are both decent, if cluttered by ‘featured’ courses and unexplained star ratings.

Even better, go and have a look for yourself - universities host postgraduate open days in just the same way as they do for undergraduate.

Check online to see which time of year these are scheduled for the courses you are interested in. Too late for the open day? Contact the university - chances are they'll be happy to let you come in for an unofficial chat.

How do I apply?

So you’ve spoken to an authority on the subject, checked out the options and made a shortlist. Now it’s time to apply.

Remember each university will have their own way of doing things, so you’ll need to make a note of each institution's application deadlines and the relevant admissions officers to call or email.

Bear in mind that there is often more flexibility with Masters programmes than first degrees - so even though you should apply as soon as you make up your mind, it may well be possible to shoot in a late application.

All applications will include an application form, a personal statement and proof of your academic qualifications. University websites should make it clear what is expected of you here, but if in any doubt, call and ask.

Many will also ask for referees and, depending on the course, a research proposal or portfolio.

You may also be required to pay a non-refundable application fee - check this.

Note that if you’re applying from abroad you’ll probably have to translate all these documents into English and also provide proof of your ability to speak the language. In addition you’ll need to photocopy your passport or national ID card.

Remember that if you get a place on a course, you’ll also need a visa - see here for more information.

Good luck!

====== 687 ========

DISABLED STUDENT LABELLED A 'CURSE' BY FAMILY TO BE SENT TO YARL'S WOOD DETENTION CENTRE

A disabled student who was beaten and abused by her own family in Nigeria could be sent to the UK’s most notorious detention centre while she waits to hear whether she faces deportation.

Kelechi Chioba, an asylum seeker who suffers from polio and mental health problems, was told she would be sent to Yarl’s Wood Detention Centre this month.

The 36-year-old scholar says her family believe she is a “curse” and that it is not safe for her to return home as a disabled queer person.

Her legal representatives expect to hear whether or not she will be detained from Tuesday, but the decision has been delayed repeatedly over the past few weeks.

Ms Chioba said that “having been a victim of sexual abuse”, she was particularly concerned by reports of sexual violence towards inmates in Yarl’s Wood.

Speaking to The Independent ahead of the decision, she said: “I’m so scared, I don’t know what’s going to happen.

“I’m worried I will be abused because I’ve heard of so much of that going on in these places, and I won’t get the support I need as a disabled person.

“My mental health will suffer as a result because I will lose the support. It will be like being shut off from the world.”

A full time wheelchair user, Ms Chioba requires a number of different medications and relies on daily support from carers.

“I have scoliosis and it gives me pain all over my body every single day. That’s the problem I have – it’s hard for me to cope with normal activities, like getting myself dressed and cleaning up after myself.

Using her life’s savings to fund her education, she moved to Britain in 2011 to study for a postgraduate degree in health and social care at the University of Wolverhampton.

Ms Chioba was forced to suspend her studies in 2014, after undergoing a series of operations and further decline in her mental health. She applied for asylum the same year.

In 2015 the Home Office rejected her plea, telling her there was “nothing sufficiently serious in the family or private life circumstances that could possibly outweigh the need for immigration controls to be enforced”.

On 20 March when reporting to the Home Office, she received a notice of Liability to Removal and was told she could be detained upon her next contact.

Her legal representatives have raised serious concerns that the detention centre will not be able to cater for Ms Chioba’s health needs, however.

In a statement, Duncan Lewis solicitors said: “Kelechi is a woman who is passionate about fighting for the rights of the most vulnerable.

“We will now fight for her right to stay in the United Kingdom where she can be open about her sexuality free from persecution and free to continue her activism as a Black LGBT Disabled Representative.

“Kelechi has been told she will be detained, something which has caused her significant psychiatric distress.

“We strongly believe that she is not suitable for detention and will do whatever we can to prevent this.’

Two years ago, the chief inspector of prisons called Yarl’s Wood a “place of national concern” following allegations of sexual abuse and intimidation of the women detained there.

Female detainees made six allegations of sexual assault against staff over a three-year period, it was reported.

A spokesperson for Serco said at the time that it takes any allegations “extremely seriously” but that there had been “no incidents of sexual abuse” in the period.

Speaking to The Independent, Medical Justice – a charity offering medical help to those held in immigration detention -– told of a “much wider problem” around how people with disabilities are treated and cared for in UK detention centres.

Emma Ginn, a spokesperson for the charity, said the group had assisted with a number of incidences where disabled detainees had suffered inadequate healthcare.

Examples included immobile detainees who had been denied a wheelchair, resulting in them not being able to get to the healthcare unit to see a nurse or doctor to get their medication.

“Some have gone hungry as they have been unable to get to the dinning hall and fellow detainees have been stopped from taking food to them in their room,” Ms Ginn added.

“A lack of mobility aids in their room has meant that some disabled detainees have not been able to properly use washing and toilet facilities.”

The charity, which receives around 1,000 referrals for detainees each year, also reported incidences where disabled detainees had been taken to the airport for removal from the UK without a wheelchair.

“These issues risk deterioration of both disabled detainees’ physical and mental health,” said Ms Ginn.

Speaking exclusively to The Independent, Ms Chioba said: “It was difficult to apply for asylum. To be honest I didn’t know anything about it, I didn’t know what it meant.

“But then someone explained to me that it was there to protect people who had been abused – which I had.”

As a student Ms Chioba said she was encouraged to apply for asylum early on, but she chose not as this would have interfered with her studies.

As an international student, she did not need asylum to remain in the UK – but when her health problems forced her to suspend her education, she no longer had the protection of student residency.

“The reason I hadn’t wanted to apply sooner was because I was told I would not have been allowed to continue my studies as an asylum seeker,” she explained, “it was all my life’s savings and I couldn’t throw that down the drain.”

But now, she says she is “penniless” and has lost her education too: “What does that leave me?”

In 2015, more than 1,000 people signed a Change.org petition set up by students urging the Home Office to reconsider Kelechi’s plea for asylum.

Fundraisers are said to have helped pay for her previous legal costs, as well as food and medicine.

But despite waiting more than two years for a verdict, the activist, who currently lives in Home Office accommodation, said she would go through it all again rather than be forced to return to Nigeria.

“Life as a disabled person in Nigeria is crazy bad,” she said. “It’s tough. I went through a lot because my family told me I was a curse, that I brought curse to the family and damaged the family’s name.

“My mother was having problems with my dad, who was violent. He beat her up because he said she gave him a disabled child. She transferred that anger onto me and beat me.”

If she were to return to Nigeria, where homosexuality is illegal, Ms Chioba says could be killed for her views and LGBT rights activism.

Homosexual relationships are punishable by up to 14 years in prison in Nigeria, and recent figures show a spike in violence against LGBT people in the country.

Despite the resistance she has faced, Ms Chioba said she hopes to become a British citizen and use her experiences to help other victims of violence.

“I’m someone who believes that disability is not the same as incapability,” she said.

“I believe that I can do things with my life. I want to make a change, I want to progress. When I came to the UK the education system inspired me to become an activist.

“Thanks to the freedoms this culture offers me, I now have the courage to talk about what happened to me, and I want to help other victims of violence and abuse to talk about their experiences.”

She said she has volunteered in hospitals as part of her degree course and hopes one day to complete her studies and train as a social worker.

“Getting a degree will push me forward in life. I want to contribute to society and I want to contribute to the economy,” she added.

Commenting on the case, Malia Bouattia, the president of the NUS, said: “I have known Kelechi for many years and she has been such a dedicated activist even when her own life and future is under threat.

“The government’s hostile policies ruin the lives of so many and we can't stand by and watch this happen. I fear for Kelechi’s life should she be detained or deported and call upon the movement and communities to please support Kelechi.”

A Home Office spokesperson said the department did not routinely comment on individual cases, but added: “The UK has a proud history of granting asylum to those who need our protection. Each claim is carefully considered on its individual merits.”

====== 688 ========

UNIVERSITY SELLS HIV TESTING KITS THROUGH VENDING MACHINES

Universities in China are offering students a discreet way to test for HIV using soft drink vending machines.

Students at Harbin Medical University in northern China can purchase HIV self-test kits from the same machines selling cans and instant noodle packs on campus.

The college is the second in Heilongjiang province to install the specialised vending machines after the Harbin University of Science and Technology, local news site Xinhua reported.

The move is part of an HIV prevention initiative by the Chinese Association of STD and HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control (CASAPC), which installed nine of the machines in five universities across China last year.

Students can purchase the test kits for 30 yuan (less than £3.50) – almost 10 times less than the average market price in China, where medical care can be costly.

After using the kit to take a urine sample, consumers can drop the samples into a deposit drawer in the specialised machine.

CASAPC staff retrieve the samples from the vending machine, and students can view their test results online anonymously by entering a unique code.

Around 654,000 people in China live with HIV or AIDS – a low percentage of the overall population especially when compared to the UK.

Recent figures have highlighted a rise in the number of students contracting the virus, however. Around 2,320 young people aged between 15 and 24 tested positive for HIV or AIDS last year – four times that of six years ago.

The prevalence of other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) is also increasing in the country, a problem some say is in part due to increasing reluctance among young people to use condoms.

People with HIV are often discriminated against in China, with those known to have the virus more likely to lose their jobs, education and health care according the global HIV charity Avert.

The number of people taking HIV tests in China rose from 60 million in 2010 to 140 million last year, but fewer than 10 students were reported to have purchased tests from the Harbin Medical University since a vending machine was installed in November last year.

“We can't eliminate the virus for now, but at least we can prevent it from spreading,” said Wang Mengjiao, a third-year student of Harbin Medical University. “For that purpose, it is important to take part in voluntary testing.”

====== 689 ========

PEKING UNIVERSITY TO OPEN NEW CAMPUS IN OXFORD NEXT YEAR

A Chinese university named one of the best higher education institutions in the world is to open a new campus in the UK next year.

Peking University will open a branch of its Beijing HSBC Business School in Oxford just a few miles from the UK’s top ranking institution, Chinese financial magazine Caixin reported.

The campus will be set at Foxcombe Hall, a 19th century manor house and grounds recently purchased by Peking University for a reported £8.8m.

Chinese officials said courses at the new Oxford college, which is not connected to the University of Oxford, would focus on “professional knowledge of China’s economy, financial market and corporate management”.

The move comes as the ruling Communist party seeks to boost the international profile of Chinese universities while also announcing tighter ideological control to retain party “strongholds”.

Peking University dean Wen Hai, said the institution had won a bid for the site against three other parties, including one unnamed Oxford college, by offering a “very tempting price” that left the sellers “little room to say ‘no’’.

Speaking to Caixin, Mr Wen said the university had been able to do so thanks to its close ties to China’s Communist party. He said those connections allowed it to “to expedite the transfer of money transfer needed for the acquisition” despite tight capital controls imposed by Beijing in an attempt to stop firms and citizens shifting large sums of money overseas.

Peking University was ranked joint second in the Times Higher Education Best Asia Universities rankings last week.

The number of British students choosing to study in China has also soared in the past year, leading experts to predict the country could overtake the UK as a top university destination within the next few years.

A number of British universities have also begun plans to expand by opening campuses in Asia – including the University of Leicester, which last month announced it would open a campus in the north-eastern province of Liaoning in mainland China.

Speaking to The Independent, the British Council said the new Peking campus could be a positive move for higher education in the UK, in spite of concerns raised for the industry’s reputation post-Brexit.

A spokesperson said: "The British Council welcomes this initiative, it is a good example of the role higher education can play in promoting good relations and better understanding between the people of the UK and people worldwide."

====== 690 ========

MILLIONS OF STUDENTS AND GRADUATES TO PAY MORE IN STUDENT LOAN FEES THANKS TO BREXIT

Millions of students and graduates in England and Wales will be forced to repay hundreds of pounds extra in student loan fees thanks to a sharp increase to interest rates sparked by Brexit.

The rise in inflation following a post-Brexit slump in the value of the pound since last June means students could see interest rates rise by around a third, from 4.6 per cent up to 6.1 per cent.

Students in England are already said to graduate with the highest levels of debt in the English-speaking world, with those beginning undergraduate degrees in September set to pay increased tuition fees of up to £9,250 per year.

The Department for Education has also begun selling off student loan debts to private investment companies, a move experts warn could come at a cost to taxpayers as the industry falls victim to “marketisation”.

The Department is yet to confirm the new interest rate payments , but for those taking out tuition fee and maintenance loans since 2012, the rate is based on the retail prices index measure of inflation (RPI) in the previous March.

The RPI rose by 3.1 per cent in the year to March 2017 compared with 1.6 per cent at the same time last year and 0.9 per cent at the same point in 2015.

Shadow education secretary Angela Rayner criticised the move, tweeting: “Student loan interest rate set to rise by a third after UK inflation surge. Student debt is sky high as it is...”

National Union of Students (NUS) President Malia Bouattia added: “Students will find little comfort in Tuesday’s revelation that rocketing inflation will hit the interest they must pay on their student loans, particularly when for some the total amount of debt now exceeds £50,000.

"Graduates wanting to access the housing market, save and start pensions after university as already struggling to do so and this step will only disadvantage them further.”

Interest begins to be charged while students are still at university at the level of RPI plus 3 per cent - which would mean charges on tuition fees and maintenance loans of 6.1%.

Personal loans available from the high street meanwhile offer interest rates as low as 2.8 per cent, fuelling claims that students are being unfairly charged for government loans, with the vast majority left unaware of alternative options.

The latest increase would mean a higher cost in interest charges before students had even graduated.

After students leave university, interest rates are linked to earnings, which will rise up to 6.1 per cent for an income of £41,000 and over - based on RPI plus 3 per cent.

As a result, current students and a many graduates will see the interest rate on their student loan jump to more than 24 times the official Bank of England base rate of 0.25 per cent.

For students who were at university before 2012, the loan rates will remain unchanged.

Earlier this year, The Independent revealed how increasing student debt levels are causing students to suffer from increased mental health problems and distress.

One in seven students said they had been chased by debt collectors after being unable to pay their rent, and over a third surveyed said they could not afford their weekly shop.

Speaking to The Independent, Estelle Clarke, a legal advisor and board member for the Intergenerational Foundation think tank, argued the government loans are sold deceptively, tying students into contracts with rates which are closer to 6.6 per cent.

This is because unpaid charges are added on to the original loan each month.

Responding to the latest concerns, Ms Clarke called government-funded student loans an "insufferable and blatant exploitation".

"What this means for students is that expensive student loans will – incredibly – become even more expensive," she said.

"This increase could easily increase some borrowers' repayments by hundreds or thousands of pounds. It will make loans last longer and borrowers' lives will carry on being difficult as they try to find never ending money for their loans and families while coping with the stress which accompanies such debt.

"This is an inexcusable assault on the vulnerability of students with no alternative but to go along with the government’s student finance system.

"Immediate and urgent scrutiny is needed of student finance," she added. "An independent enquiry should be set up to stop children out of school being laden with more then thirty years of unfair debt."

Jake Butler, an expert for money advice website Save the Student, said the increase to student loan interest was “worse than expected” this year.

“It really demonstrates that the interest on loans under the new system is far too high and should be reassessed,” he said.

However, the website pointed out that those who started university after September 2012 do not start repaying their loan until they are earning more than £21,000 a year, adding: “Unless you start off with a graduate salary of higher than £30,000, it’s unlikely you will pay off your full loan and interest before it’s wiped after 30 years anyway.”

The Department for Education defended the move, with a spokeswoman adding: “The Retail Price Index (RPI) has always been used for calculating interest on student loans.

"Student loans are not like commercial loans as they have more favourable terms, including repayments being linked to income and not to the amount borrowed. Our student funding system is sustainable and fair.

"There has been no change to how student loan repayments are made and, as has always been the case, changes in the RPI dictate how much interest will be applied. No individual will see their monthly repayments rise as a result of interest rates increasing.

“Rates are set each year in September and are confirmed before then.”

====== 691 ========

ERIC MONKMAN REMAINS CULT HERO DESPITE LOSING UNIVERSITY CHALLENGE FINAL AND BEING CALLED 'USELESS' BY JEREMY PAXMAN

Fans of University Challenge have said Cambridge scholar Eric Monkman remains their unlikely hero, despite being branded “useless” by host Jeremy Paxman as his team lost out in the final.

The Canadian captain of Wolfson College, Cambridge, has sent social media into a frenzy this series, with fans going into meltdown over his hotly anticipated head-to-head with Oxford’s Joey Goldman, who also gained a cult following this season.

‘Monkmania’ peaked this evening as Wolfson locked horns with Oxford’s Balliol, showcasing the 29-year-old Economic's graduate's distinctive facial expressions and vigorously determined approach to answering the difficult questions.

Despite his best efforts, he could do little to prevent a comfortable win with a 50-point margin by the Oxford four.

The Canadian made heroic efforts, nailing the starter questions time and again, but Balliol were much the stronger team and pulled away in the final stretch of the half-hour BBC2 show to win by 190 points to 140.

When the Cambridge student stumbled as he made a guess midway through the show, host Mr Paxman snorted with his trademark disdain: “That was a completely useless answer", this served only to endear Monkman further to his fans, especially when he self-deprecatingly agreed with the host.

Balliol captain Joey Goldman didn't lead from the front quite in the manner of Monkman but was ultimately more effective with a stronger supporting team.

Monkman led enthusiastic applause for the victors, who were were awarded the coveted trophy by Professor Stephen Hawking, who gave a light-hearted speech.

“I have said in the past that it is not clear whether intelligence has any long term survival value. Bacteria manage to flourish without it. But it is one of the most admirable qualities, especially when displayed by such young minds. Many congratulations to both teams and especially to Balliol College, Oxford on becoming series champions on University Challenge, a programme I have long enjoyed.”

Monkman, who is currently job hunting in his hometown of Oakville after completing his Master's degree, said he finds his newfound cult celebrity status "a bit strange."

Fans may be disappointed to learn he has a girlfriend, Jiang Na, a professor of law at Beijing Normal University. He told The Daily Telegraph that he doesn't think of himself as "an object of desire" and assumes people are being ironic when they suggest he is a sex symbol on Twitter.

====== 692 ========

WHO IS ERIC MONKMAN? ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY CHALLENGE FINALIST

The 46th University Challenge final is underway, with scholars across the nation eagerly awaiting a familiar showdown between Oxford and Cambridge university teams.

This season has been explosive, with fans going into meltdown in anticipation for Joey Goldman’s face-off against unexpected hero Eric Monkman.

The Cambridge scholar has sent social media into meltdown in recent weeks thanks to his expressive face and vigorous approach to answering some of the toughest quiz show questions around.

Fans love him so much, there’s even an Etsy store selling t-shirts with his face on them.

In the semi-final against Emmanuel Collage, Cambridge, he scored an impressive 120 of his team's 170 points.

On Monday night he will face another cult hero of the series, Joey Goldman, of Balliol College, Oxford.

Tweeting before the show, Monkman said: “I have really appreciated the support that so many people have expressed for me.

”Thank you so much. I hope you all enjoy the match tonight.”

He is due to compete for the title of 46th series champion with his team mates Justin Yang, Ben Chaudhri and Paul Cosgrove.

Who is Eric Monkman?

Eric Monkman is a 29-year-old Canadian scholar and University Challenge team captain for Wolfson College, Cambridge.

He graduated with a Masters in Economics last year, and is currently job hunting in his Canadian home town of Oakville.

The son of two doctors, Monkman says he is the “odd one out” in his family, as he is squeamish over blood.

He has a girlfriend, Jiang Na, a professor of law at Beijing Normal University, and appeared on the BBC programme once before in September 2016.

According to Monkman, she finds his sudden celebrity status "a bit strange".

The economist's intense facial expressions and high level of enthusiasm has earned him widespread adoration, with Twitter fans bonding over the hashtag Monkmania.

In the semi finals, Eric led his team to victory over Emmanuel College captained by his close friend and rival Bobby Seagull.

The win, aired in March, was said to be the closest in 12 years and had viewers on the edge of their seats.

Monkman scored 120 of his team's 170 points and managed to get 18 of the 45 correctly answered questions.

Jeremy Paxman, the show's host congratulated both teams.

He said: “I will say only that you guys, all of you, of whatever gender, are very, very clever”.

====== 693 ========

FROM ERIC MONKMAN TO STEPHEN FRY: 8 MOST MEMORABLE UNIVERSITY CHALLENGE CONTESTANTS

The 46th University Challenge final is imminent, with scholars across the nation eagerly awaiting a familiar showdown between Oxford and Cambridge university teams.

This season has been explosive, with fans going into meltdown in anticipation for Joey Goldman’s face-off against unexpected hero Eric Monkman.

It will be, as one twitter fan called it, “a battle of the giants”.

Both captains have racked up notorious fame during their time on the show and made headlines all across the country.

Monkman is the breakout star of this series. The 29-year-old Canadian Economics student leading Wolfson College, Cambridge, became an instant twitter sensation from his debut appearance in September 2016.

His furrowed brows, panicked expression and lack of inside voice has won him a cult following. Fans all over the UK have claimed him as their “favourite TV personality ever”. But he’s certainly not the first to find fame on the eccentric game show of brain power.

Ahead of Monday night’s highly anticipated quiz show, let’s take a walk down the University Challenge Hall of Fame:

1. Gail Trimble – Corpus Christi College, Oxford University (2009)

The woman dubbed the “Human Google” and “TV Quiz phenomenon” steered Corpus Christi College to victory after correctly answering more questions than the rest of her team combined… Only to have her team disqualified after an investigation revealed one of her teammates had finished studying at Corpus Christi before the series ended.

The trophy was re-awarded to runners up, Manchester University.

2. Kaamil Shah – Kings College, Cambridge University (2015)

Who doesn’t remember the black pleather-vested hunk? Kaamil walked onto the show and into our hearts donning a massive gold chain.

Shah made headlines across the country for his sleeveless style and emo hair, melting the hearts of Twitter-fans and sending social media into a love-struck frenzy.

Sadly, his fierce appearance wasn’t enough to bring his team to victory, losing to Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.

3. Oscar Powell – Peterhouse, Cambridge (2015)

Viewers remember Powell as the man with an abundance of facial expressions.

The geological science student helped his team soar to victory in the semi-finals with his extensive knowledge on geology-related questions but it was his bizarre on-camera array of animated expressions that stole the hearts of viewers all across the country.

During the music round, Powell pulled his hair, chewed his hand and stuck out his tongue while desperately trying to remember the name of an artist. His performance sparked a twitter campaign led by fans calling for Powell to become Prime Minister.

4. Ted Loveday – Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge (2015)

Hailed by many as the "best ever contestant", Loveday led Cambridge to victory in the finals with his lightning fast answers.

The 21-year-old law student answered 10 starter questions in a row and won over fans with his 3-second response to Jeremy Paxman’s hapax legomenon question.

Later he admitted all his knowledge was attributed to intense studying on Wikipedia and Youtube.

5. Alex Guttenplan – Emmanuel College, Cambridge (2010)

The enthusiastic captain won first place in 2010, scoring 315 points to 100 against St John’s College, Oxford. But it was his snappy unprecedented comeback at Paxman that captured viewer’s hearts across the nation.

After the natural sciences student paused for a few moments before correctly answering a question, Paxman said: "Good guess". Guttenplan calmly responded: "It wasn’t a guess".

The 19-year-old teenager remained composed in the face of Paxman’s aggressive questioning, beating countless politicians before him. His supporters, dubbed "Guttenfans", held him to heartthrob status and many labelled him as the pin-up Einstein.

6. Sam Fairbrother – Jesus, Cambridge (2016)

University Challenge fans lost it over Fairbrother when he raised his fist and shocked Paxman with his eccentric outfit.

It’s not the first time viewers have been sent into a frenzied state over a UC vest (see Kaamil Shah), but not even Kaamil was as eccentric as Fairbrother.

Many comparisons were made between Fairbrother and a number of celebrity lookalikes. The most notable being Demi Moore and Simon from The Inbetweeners.

7. Hannah Woods – Peterhouse, Cambridge (2015)

Captain Woods directed her team to victory, defeating rivals from St John’s College, Oxford in the series finale.

But it wasn’t her brains that won viewers, it was her left eyebrow.

The famously arched thick black left eyebrow that was raised higher than the right. ‘Browfan’ and ‘Facetious Eyebrow’, two twitter parody pages were inspired by Wood’s brow as well as a marriage proposal.

8. Stephen Fry – Queen’s College, Cambridge (1980)

Yes. The man, the legend… Stephen Fry. The British comedian began his career on-screen in the 1980 University Challenge with Queen’s College, Cambridge.

The fresh-faced 23-year-old made it to the final round and is among the few contestants who went on to find fame, others include Miriam Margolyes and David Starkey.

====== 694 ========

GOVERNMENT IMMIGRATION PLANS WILL UNDERMINE OUR DEGREES, SAY UK STUDENTS

The quality of a British university degree will fall and overall student experience will suffer if international students are not protected post-Brexit, students have warned.

A nationwide survey of UK students run by the the National Union of Students (NUS) reveals the majority feel their degrees would suffer if international community numbers dropped.

The report follows a government announcement that another consultation on immigration rules for international students is to take place at the upcoming Conservative Party conference this year.

Recent Higher Education Statistics Agency figures suggest international students make up 19 per cent of the student population in UK universities - equivalent to some ? members.

Last year Home Secretary Amber Rudd faced backlash for new proposals for tougher rules on student visas that could make it more difficult for international students to study in the UK.

The move could also cost the economy as much as £2bn per year, experts warn.

The uncertain position of international students has led to political disarray, with Tory peers clashing over whether international students should remain within migration data.

Authors of the NUS survey said they had set out to capture a student voice to add to the debate surrounding international students within the immigration system.

The survey received a response of over 4600 UK students and asked a range of questions about international students from the immigration regulations to the impact international students have on the quality of their learning experience.

In response, some 70 per cent of UK students agreed that any reduction in international student numbers would impact their cultural experience at University.

A quarter said they believed their course could not run without them.

The report also revealed that the majority of UK students believe that international students should have the same rights, regardless of where they study.

Currently, international students can be subject to different entry-requirements and for some, expensive English Language tests are required.

Mostafa Rajaii, NUS International Students’ Officer told The Independent: “The suggestion by Home Secretary Amber Rudd that international students at some universities will get greater rights than others will not sit well with students, and risks leading to further declines in international student numbers at many universities.”

He added, “What this research shows is that international students have a big impact on UK students. Home students are clearly indicating their classes, campuses and communities won’t be what they want them to be without the presence of international students.”

One postgraduate student said: “Making international students leave after studying in the U.K. is poor policy because high skilled people contribute more than their share to the economy, rather than taking away resources. If they cannot work in the U.K. they will happily take their skills elsewhere.”

An undergraduate engineering student said: “I come from somewhere with very little ethnic/cultural diversity so I like that there is much more diversity here at university; I feel international students are valuable as they are interesting to get to know. I appreciate the range of people here.”

Responding to the report’s findings, MillionPlus, the Association for Modern Universities, said it was calling on the government to readdress its approach towards protecting the rights of international students in the UK.

====== 695 ========

GERMAN MILLENNIALS 'MOST WELCOMING' OF IMMIGRANTS IN ALL OF EUROPE

German millennials are the most welcoming of immigrants in all of Europe, in spite of a perceived increase in negative attitudes towards immigrants and refugees in the country.

A study of more than one million 18-34 year-olds from 35 European countries, led by German broadcasters ZDF, SWR and Bayerischer Rundfunk, reveals most young people have no confidence in their countries’ governments and religious institutions, while slightly less than half are pessimistic about their future.

On immigration, among more than 200,000 participants from 11 European countries, some 80 per cent of German youth believe that immigration enriches cultural diversity in their country.

Overall, an average of 73 per cent of European millennials felt positively about being part of a multi-cultural population.

Last year Germany saw a total of more than 3,500 assaults on migrants and asylum seekers, as well as 2,545 attacks against individual refugees last year.

Angela Merkel faced numerous criticisms following a series of deadly attacks involving asylum seekers, that some claim are the outcome of her open-door immigration policy implemented in 2015.

During the Berlin Christmas market attack last year, a truck driven by asylum seeker Anis Amri ploughed into a crowd killing 12 people and injuring 50.

Commenting on the survey's findings, Pauline Wipfler, a 21-year-old student from Cologne told The Independent: “Most immigrants worked hard to integrate in the German society. I think that the German culture has truly benefitted from new influences especially in bigger cities.

“It’s important for both sides to be open to other cultures so we can learn from each other and also accept cultural differences,” she said.

"Most Germans can differentiate the few immigrants causing problems from the immigrants doing their best to integrate well, which are the majority in my opinion."

Only 24 per cent of people surveyed agreed that in times of economic crisis and low level of employment, jobs should be reserved for their own native citizens.

The results of the study came soon after a recent poll from the market research institute Allensbach showed a drop in public support for anti-immigration Alternative für Deutschland party in Germany.

More than a million asylum seekers are believed to have arrived in Germany since the refugee crisis began in 2015.

Asylum seekers are now being offered money to return to their home countries amid fears the country cannot cope with the influx and widespread criticism of Ms Merkel’s “open door” policy.

====== 696 ========

HOUSE REPUBLICANS FINALISE CONTROVERSIAL INTERNET PRIVACY LAW LETTING US COMPANIES SELL BROWSING HISTORY

Internet users in the US could soon see their browsing history, geo-localisation data, health information and the content of their communications being sold to third parties without their consent.

The US House of Representatives has repealed a law which forced internet service providers to ask users permission before sharing sensitive and personal information with advertisers.

The internet privacy law was passed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under the Barack Obama administration.

Read more

The law would have also enabled internet users to opt out of the sharing of less sensitive information like an email address.

Last week, the US Senate voted to overturn the internet privacy law and President Donald Trump is expected to sign the order to repeal the law soon.

The move was reportedly backed by major internet providers including Verzion, AT&T and Comcast, who claimed they were being subject to stricter privacy laws than companies like Google and Facebook.

Those supporting the repeal of the law said this will increase competition but critics have warned of the negative impact on online privacy.

On their website, Fight for the Future, an organisation which defends freedom of expression and creativity on the internet, said they would start a campaign with billboards exposing those in the House of Representatives who voted for the law to be repealed and have previously benefited from contributions from telecommunications companies.

Campaign director Evan Greer said: “Today Congress proved once again that they care more about the wishes of the corporations that fund their campaigns than they do about the safety and security of their constituents.”

“Gutting these privacy rules won’t just allow internet service providers to spy on us and sell our personal information, it will also enable more unconstitutional mass government surveillance, and fundamentally undermine our cybersecurity by making our sensitive personal information vulnerable to hackers, identity thieves, and foreign governments."

Ajit Pai, the FCC chairman, said in a statement: “Last year, the Federal Communications Commission pushed through, on a party-line vote, privacy regulations designed to benefit one group of favored companies over another group of disfavoured companies.

“Appropriately, Congress has passed a resolution to reject this approach of picking winners and losers before it takes effect.

“Moving forward, I want the American people to know that the FCC will work with the FTC to ensure that consumers’ online privacy is protected through a consistent and comprehensive framework.”

====== 697 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY UNVEILS NEW PORTRAITS OF WOMEN AND ETHNIC MINORITES TO 'REDRESS DIVERSITY'

Oxford University is to put up more than 20 new portraits of female and ethnic minority alumni, in a bid to improve diversity and reduce the propotions of dead white males on display.

Astrophysicist Dame Jocelyn Bell Burnell, Oxford Law fellow and disability rights campaigner Marie Tidball, and human rights activist Kumi Naidoo are among those named to appear in new paintings and photographs commissioned as part of the university’s Diversifying Portraiture initiative.

The portraits will include a mixture of pioneering men and women, and will feature people with disabilities, people from a variety of ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds, and people from LGBTQ+ communities.

“We're not taking anyone down - but the portraits have been almost exclusively men and we're just beginning to redress the balance,” said the university’s head of equality, Trudy Coe.

“It will allow students to look up and see people who look like them. It's sending a signal to a wider range of students that they belong here.”

In 2014, Hertford College, Oxford, celebrated 40 years of being a co-educational institution by installing a series of female portraits for exhibition.

The latest commissions are part of one of the biggest university-wide projects to ever take place, and have been selected with the help of staff and student nominations.

BBC journalist Reeta Chakrabarti, who studied at Exeter College, Oxford, is one of those chosen to sit for a portrait.

“I loved my time at Oxford,” she said, but added: “There weren't – then – many people from my background at university there.

“I hope this project will show that Oxford is open to everyone, and that it wants to be more so. I hope too that it reflects present-day Oxford back at itself, and that it encourages an ever more diverse range of people to study there.'

Professor Louise Richardson, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, said: 'There is nothing quite like walking into a room and seeing someone who looks like you honoured in a portrait on the wall. It is so important for all of us to be reminded that achievement and leadership come in all colours, shapes and sizes.'

Oxford University has faced criticism for failing to recruit enough students from state-schools and disadvantaged backgrounds.

Admissions figures published earlier this year showed the UK’s top institution had one of the lowest proportions of state school pupils of any UK university.

Ms Coe said: “We hope that this project will encourage all our departments and colleges to think of ways to celebrate the full diversity of our staff and student body, as an inspiration to current and future students and staff.”

The full list of new portraits commissioned:

Diran Adebayo (novelist)

Dr Norma Aubertin-Potter (librarian at All Souls College, Oxford)

Dame Susan Jocelyn Bell Burnell (astrophysicist)

Professor Dame Valerie Beral (Professor of Epidemiology at Oxford University)

Professor Dorothy Bishop (Professor of Developmental Neuropsychology at Oxford University)

Reeta Chakrabarti (BBC journalist)

Dr Penelope Curtis (arts administrator and former director of Tate Britain)

Professor Patricia Daley (Professor of the Human Geography of Africa at Oxford University)

Professor Trisha Greenhalgh (primary health care academic)

Anne-Marie Imafidon (women in science campaigner)

Professor Dame Carole Jordan (astrophysicist)

Professor Aditi Lahiri (Professor of Linguistics at Oxford University)

Kelsey Leonard (ﬁrst Native American woman to earn a degree from Oxford University)

Hilary Lister (first disabled woman to sail solo around Britain)

Ken Loach (television and film director)

Professor Diarmaid MacCulloch (Professor of the History of the Church at Oxford University)

Jan Morris (historian, author and travel writer)

Kumi Naidoo (South African human rights activist)

Dr Henry Odili Nwume (Winter Olympics British bobsledder)

Dame Esther Rantzen (broadcaster)

