Professor Lyndal Roper (Regius Professor of History at Oxford University)

Professor Kathy Sylva (Professor of Educational Psychology at Oxford University)

Marie Tidball (member of Oxford University's Law Faculty and disability rights campaigner)

Jeanette Winterson (novelist)

====== 698 ========

RHODES MUST FALL- INSPIRED STUDENTS CALL FOR BRISTOL UNIVERSITY TOWER NAME CHANGE OVER SLAVE-TRADE LINKS

Students at the University of Bristol have launched a campaign to rename one of the city’s most iconic buildings over its alleged links to slavery.

Campaigners inspired by the Rhodes Must Fall movement claim the Wills Memorial Tower “glorifies” the slave trade due to its namesake, Henry Overton Wills III, Bristol’s founding chancellor.

Mr Wills was the first official chancellor of the university and used profits from his tobacco trade investments to fund Bristol’s royal charter.

The tower was dedicated to him by his two sons after his death.

The student protestors argue the building undermines the university’s commitment to “diversity and inclusivity” and symbolises the “toleration” of former slave masters.

Should their campaign be successful, the tower will be renamed after “somebody the entire university population can be proud of”.

Launching a petition, the student group said: “Every student who first attends Bristol cannot help but notice the grand prominence of Wills Memorial Building at the top of Park Street.

“However, little know the history behind the name… Wills is known best for being the first chancellor of the university; less people are aware that this position was granted to him after financing the university with slave-profited money.

“While we begrudgingly understand that Bristol has a historical connection to the slave trade, we find it hard to accept that the university still glorifies an individual who advocated such an immoral practice.

“We also find it ironic that the building is often the setting for events hosting some of this century's most progressive thinkers.”

Known as one of the last Gothic buildings to be built in England, the grade II listed tower was designed by the architect Sir George Oatley and was opened in 1925 after Mr Wills’s death.

Responding to the petition, a spokesman for the university said would be “disingenuous” to “cover up” the university’s historical relationship with the Wills family, adding that it was important to be “open and reflective” about the city’s history.

They added that the university was still in the process of considering the students’ demands.

The spokesman said:”In 1908, a substantial gift of £100,000 from Henry Overton Wills III helped to establish our University, and a year later, partly as a consequence of that gift, we were awarded a Royal Charter.

“We have never sought to hide our association with the Wills family. We believe that it is important to be open and reflective about our history, and the city’s historical connection to the slave trade.

“To us, it would seem disingenuous to seek to deny or cover up our relationship with the family. We would welcome the chance to discuss this further with the organisers of this petition.”

====== 699 ========

15 LIFE HACKS TO HELP GRADUATES TACKLE MORNINGS

The transition from university to full-time work is hard enough to deal with without being forced to completely change your sleeping pattern.

You might already be an early riser, and therefore suited to the usual 9-5 working hours. But for those who consider themselves 'night owls’, the change can be extremely difficult.

If the latter is true, and you still struggle with mornings after trying all these strategies, it might be worth looking into flexible working that allows you to work on your terms.

The point to take from this article is that no one size fits all; some strategies may work for you, and not for others. So if you’re desperate to breathe life and energy into your mornings, read on for tips on which aspects you could consider changing.

1. Learn to stop snoozing

Every time you snooze, you restart a new sleep cycle, which then gets interrupted every 9 minutes until you finally get up. And guess what? You’re at your most rested when your first alarm goes off – the more you snooze, the worse you end up feeling. Starting the day with a feeling of resistance isn’t exactly a precursor to a good day.

2. Drink a WHOLE glass of water when you wake up

How much water do you think you drink in your sleep? None? Correct. So, logic (and science) infers that drinking a lovely big glass of H2O as soon as your alarm goes off helps to wake your body up by re-hydrating it, which in turn, makes you feel so much more alert.

3. Actually eat a proper breakfast

It’s a highly disputed topic as to whether breakfast’s importance is overstated. There’s not enough evidence to prove either side right.

Common sense suggests that it’s your first meal for over eight hours. Breakfast is supposed to fuel you for the day, as opposed to dinner which fuels you for the evening. Others argue that they lack appetite first thing in the morning, or they’ve always skipped breakfast, and they’re “fine”.

But what if you could feel better than just “fine”? If you want to try to do breakfast right, aim for a slow-release bowl of something like porridge or muesli. If you have a little more time, make sure you eat as much protein in your breakfast as you can (think: eggs, kippers, beans etc.).

Protein contains amino acids which help your brain perform at its best, and means you release the energy you gain from food at a slower rate.

4. Get some daylight ASAP

Open your curtains as soon as you wake up, or better yet, actually go outside and get some sunlight. Even if you can’t face parting with your bed just yet, compromise with a quick dash to the curtains, then return to your bed to bask in the morning glow.

The influx of daylight tells your body that is time to be awake. Humans are hard-wired to follow an internal sleeping pattern, and daylight helps us to achieve this by reducing the ‘sleepy’ hormone, melatonin.

5. Exercise really gets you going in the morning

Exercising in the morning is one of the easiest ways to wake up, it’s just harder to motivate yourself to do. To increase to the chance you’ll actually exercise, try laying out your workout clothes next to your bed the night before.

Also, opting for an AM routine can help you sleep better at night. If you don’t have time for a full body workout, just 20 star jumps will help buckets to invigorate your body.

6. Meditation

If meditation is more your cup of tea, try 10 minutes a day. Meditation can be a very rewarding way to start your morning. Try Headspace’s 10 day free trial for a taster.

7. Go to bed earlier (obviously)

It’s probably the most important point in this article, and the most obvious too, but you need to sleep 7-9 hours to feel your best in the mornings.

Don’t force yourself to stay up late just because you can, and don’t watch one more episode every night; no matter how good the show is, it will be there tomorrow.

8. Put your alarm clock in a different room

If you struggle to get out of bed after your alarm goes off, you could try placing an additional alarm in a different room that goes off a few minutes after your main one.

This is especially effective if you live with others who would be disturbed by the noise should it go off – it forces you to get out of bed, which will hopefully wake up your body enough that you can’t drift off again.

9. Have a fun activity that you do in the mornings

The reason you’re probably reading this is because your mornings are a mess, and you can barely wake up in time for your bus, let alone another activity. But this is worth trying if you are serious about improving your mornings.

Maybe finding time to watch an episode of something will make extended mornings more appealing than, say, getting up early to go for a run. Try waking up a little earlier each day, or just dive in and give yourself an extra hour.

Remember, you’ll feel worse if you go back to sleep, so get up and do something nice that you normally wouldn’t have time for.

10. Schedule appointments for first thing in the morning

This is especially for those who are job-hunting, or working part-time. It’s so difficult to motivate yourself to get up early for yet another day of applying to jobs.

With this in mind, any appointments or meetings you might have, book for first thing to make you get up. Once you’re done with the appointment, you’re awake, feeling accomplished, and have so much more of the day left to actually get stuff done.

11. Focus on improving the quality of your sleep

Avoid too much protein close to bedtime, as this will only make you more alert and less likely to want to drift off.

Make sure you stay away from blue screens (phones, laptops, TVs) in the run up to bedtime, as one research study shows that after two hours of using a blue light emitting device, your melatonin levels (‘sleepy’ hormone) are “drastically inhibited.”

Other tips include removing any trace of light from your room, and reading just before sleep.

12. Establish a routine

If you stick to a set time of waking up (work permitting), your body will naturally drop into a routine meaning you’ll eventually wake up naturally at the time you need.

To fully commit and reap all the rewards a regular sleeping pattern provides, you will need to wake up at the same time on weekends (or at most, a one hour lie in).

A study of Korean teenagers found that, having not slept enough during the week, catch-up sleep at the weekend worked adversely to rejuvenate them, and their concentration was in fact worse because of the effect this had on their sleeping pattern.

13. Prepare for your day the night before

You’re going to feel much more lethargic in the morning, so prepare for the next day the night before. Lay out your outfit, get your ironing done and prepare your lunch in the evening when you have a lot more time.

Of course it’s hard to think about tomorrow once you’re at home and free from work, but it will be easier than rushing in the morning to get everything done.

14. Shower

If you’re already a morning-washer, we’re sure you can agree that showering does wonders to wake you up. However, the hot water can also work against your morning routine by making you sleepier. If you can hack it, you should try this cold shower technique.

15. Optimise your heating

Set your heating to come on at least 30 minutes before you need to get up in winter. And while you’re at it, line your clothes for the day up on the radiator, meaning tomorrow’s outfit will be more appealing to get into.

There’s nothing worse than prying yourself from your warm and cosy bed into the harsh cold of your unheated room.

Lizzi Hart is a linguistics graduate and a marketing executive at the Graduate Recruitment Bureau (grb.uk.com/graduate-jobs)

====== 700 ========

3D CONCRETE PRINTING COULD FREE THE WORLD FROM BORING BUILDINGS

Construction is one of the largest industries in the world economy – worth £5.6 trillion globally (equivalent to 13 per cent of GDP).

But construction has suffered for decades from remarkably poor productivity compared to other sectors. While agriculture and manufacturing have increased productivity 10-15 times since the 1950s, construction remains stuck at the same level as 80 years ago.

That’s because construction remains largely manual, while manufacturing and other industries have made significant progress in the use of digital, sensing and automation technologies.

We and other research groups see 3D-printed concrete as a possible solution to these problems. The technique will likely also give architects the freedom to inject more creativity into their designs for new structures.

Our modern civil infrastructure is almost entirely built with concrete. The only material we use more than that is water.

The construction industry is facing a number of serious problems, including low labour efficiency and high accident rates at construction sites.

There are also difficulties in quality control at construction sites, high levels of waste and carbon emissions, cost blow-outs, and challenges in managing large worksites with a vanishing skilled workforce.

Disruptive technologies such as 3D concrete printing can offer solutions.

3D construction uses additive manufacturing techniques, which means objects are constructed by adding layers of material.

Conventional approaches to construction involve casting concrete into a mould (known as formwork). But additive construction combines digital technology and new insights from materials technology to allow free-form construction without the use of formwork.

Eliminating the cost of formwork is the major economic driver of 3D concrete printing. Built using materials such as timber, formwork accounts for about 60 per cent of the total cost of concrete construction. It’s also a significant source of waste, given that it is discarded sooner or later. According to a 2011 study, the construction industry generates 80 per cent of total worldwide waste.

Pouring concrete into formwork also limits the creativity of architects to build unique shapes, unless very high costs are paid for bespoke formwork. Free-form additive construction could enhance architectural expression. The cost of producing a structural component would not be tied to the shape, so construction could be freed from the rectangular designs that are so familiar in current building architecture.

What we could build

3D concrete printing is being explored for use in the construction of houses, bridges, buildings and even wind turbine towers.

Houses

A 3D-printed concrete house was built in 24 hours during a harsh Russian winter. It was the first such house to be built in a single location.

Bridges

An eight-metre 3D-printed concrete bridge for cyclists was unveiled in the Netherlands last year. The bridge, which was printed by Eindhoven University of Technology, has more than 800 layers and took three months to print.

Intricate structures

3D concrete printing has an advantage over conventional construction methods when it comes to building non-rectilinear shapes, such as curved shapes with intricate details.

It’s still early days

This field of research is still in its infancy.

The biggest hurdle in the development of concrete 3D printing is the concrete itself. Conventional concrete in its current form is not suitable for 3D printing, so new and innovative alternatives need to be developed.

Researchers are exploring various types of concrete. The concrete for 3D printing must not set when it’s inside the printer, but it needs to set and strengthen as soon after it is extruded as possible. This kind of concrete is called “set-on-demand”.

When it comes to actually printing the concrete, special printers are needed. Typically, the size of the printer needs to be larger than the component being printed. However, researchers are exploring printers or robots that can “climb” on parts of the concrete that are already set in order to print other sections.

Jay Sanjayan is professor at Swinburne University of Technology, Melbourne. This article first appeared in The Conversation (conversation.com)

====== 701 ========

JUSTIN BIEBER OPENS UP ABOUT LIFE AS A 'MARRIED MAN' AND SAYS HE WANTS TO BE MORE LIKE JESUS

Justin Bieber has celebrated his first Thanksgiving as a “married man”, having confirmed his marriage to model Hailey Baldwin in a candid Instagram post on Friday.

The pop singer wished his 102m followers a happy Thanksgiving, adding that he is trying to be more patient and kind, like Jesus Christ.

“First Thanksgiving as a married man, first time hosting Thanksgiving,” the 24-year-old wrote in a caption accompanying a picturesque photograph of what appears to be redwood trees, which are native to Northern California.

“First time both sides of the family has come together,” he continued.

“Relationships are hard and love isn’t always easy but thank you Jesus for showing me how!

“Every day is a learning process, trying to be more like him, patient, kind, selfless, boy I got a long way! But gods grace is sufficient ! [sic]”.

The Canadian musician is thought to have tied the knot with Baldwin in September in a small civil ceremony in Los Angeles, California.

The marriage was unofficially confirmed last week when the young model changed her name to “Hailey Rhode Bieber” on Instagram.

Bieber himself contributed to rumours that the two had indeed exchanged vows by writing, "My wife is awesome,” in a caption on Instagram to accompany a photo of the pair holding hands, with Baldwin writing: "That's my babe" in a comment underneath.

Thanksgiving also marked Baldwin’s 22nd birthday, which Bieber’s mother, Pattie Mallette, acknowledged on Twitter, writing: “HAPPY BIRTHDAY @haileybaldwin !! I LOVE YOU!! I’m SO #THANKFUL to have you as a daughter!!!”

Following a brief romance from December 2015 to January 2016, Baldwin and Bieber began dating again in May 2018.

Bieber announced their engagement in July.

====== 702 ========

THE HISTORY, SEX AND SCIENCE OF A MEATLESS EXISTENCE

At the age of 14, Donald Watson watched as a terrified, screaming pig was slaughtered on his family farm. In this British boy’s eyes, this was murder. Watson stopped eating meat and eventually gave up dairy as well.

Later, as an adult in 1944, Watson realised that others shared his interest in a plant-only diet. And thus veganism – a term he coined – was born.

Watson’s legacy ripples through our culture. Even though only 3 per cent of Americans identify as vegan, most people seem to have an unusually strong opinion about these fringe foodies – one way or the other.

It’s an ideology not a choice

Like other alternative food movements such as locavorism, veganism arises from a belief structure that guides eating decisions.

They aren’t simply moral high-grounders. Vegans do believe it’s ethical to avoid animal products, but they also believe it’s healthier and better for the environment.

Also, just like Donald Watson’s story, veganism is often rooted in early life experiences.

Psychologists recently discovered that having a larger variety of pets as a child increases tendencies to avoid eating meat as an adult. Growing up with different sorts of pets increases concern for how animals are treated more generally.

Thus, when a friend opts for Tofurky this holiday season, rather than one of the 45 million turkeys consumed for Thanksgiving, his decision isn’t just a high-minded choice. It arises from beliefs that are deeply held and hard to change.

Veganism as a symbolic threat

That doesn’t mean your faux-turkey loving friend won’t seem annoying if you’re a meat eater.

The late celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain famously quipped that meat avoiders “are the enemy of everything good and decent in the human spirit”.

Why do some people find vegans so irritating? In fact, it might be more about “us” than them.

Most Americans think meat is an important part of a healthy diet. The US government recommends eating two to three portions (five to six ounces) per day of everything from bison to sea bass. As tribal humans, we naturally form biases against individuals who challenge our way of life, and because veganism runs counter to how we typically approach food, vegans feel threatening.

Humans respond to feelings of threat by derogating these “outgroups”. Two out of three vegans experience discrimination daily, one in four report losing friends after “coming out” as vegan, and one in 10 believe being vegan cost them a job.

Veganism can be hard for those looking for romance, too. Recent research finds that the more someone enjoys eating meat, the less likely they are to swipe right on a vegan. Also, women find men who are vegan less attractive than those who eat meat, as meat eating seems masculine.

Crossing the vegan divide

It may be no surprise that being a vegan is tough, but meat eaters and meat abstainers probably have more in common than they think.

Many vegans are focused on healthy eating. Six out of 10 Americans want their meals to be healthier, and research shows that plant-based diets are associated with reduced risk for heart disease, certain cancers, and type 2 diabetes.

It may not be surprising, then, that one in 10 Americans are pursuing a mostly veggie diet. That number is higher among younger generations, suggesting that the long-term trend might be moving away from meat consumption.

In addition, several factors will make meat more costly in the near future.

Meat production accounts for as much as 15 per cent of all greenhouse gas emissions, and razing land for pasture destroys 6.7 million acres of tropical forest per year. While these figures are debated, it is clear that meat has higher emissions than plants, and population growth is increasing demand for quality protein.

Seizing the opportunity, scientists have innovated forms of plant-based meats that have proven to be appealing even to meat eaters. The distributor of Beyond Meat’s pea-protein patties says 86 per cent of its customers are meat eaters. It is rumoured that this California-based vegan company will soon be publicly traded on Wall Street.

Meanwhile, the science behind lab-grown “cultured tissue” meat is improving. It used to cost more than £195,000 to produce a single lab-grown hamburger patty. Technological improvements by Dutch company Mosa Meat have reduced the cost to £8 per burger.

Watson’s legacy

Even during the holiday season, when turkey and ham take centre stage, there’s a growing push to promote meatless eating.

London, for example, will host its first-ever “zero waste” Christmas market this year featuring vegan food vendors. Donald Watson would be proud.

Watson, who died in 2006 at the ripe old age of 95, outlived most of his critics. This may give quiet resolve to vegans as they brave our meat-loving world.

Joshua T Beck is an assistant professor of marketing at the University of Oregon. This article first appeared on TheConversation.com

====== 703 ========

HOW TO MAKE LAMB WITH PEARS AND BLACK OLIVES

Brown food gets a bad rap. All that monochrome makes us nervous and itchy to toss on some chopped parsley or chives. But it shouldn’t.

Stews and slow-cooked meats just don’t need it. While they may not win any beauty contest, they deliver in taste – and now is the time to indulge in some brown food cooking.

This lamb dish is seasoned with ras el hanout – a North African spice blend. It gives the dish added warmth and depth.

I’ve used pears but you could use quince instead and dried apricots would be a nice touch.

Orange – peel and juice – lifts the dish and cuts through the richness of the lamb. All that’s needed is some bulgur wheat or rice – brown of course – and dinner is done.

Lamb with pears and black olives

Serves 3 to 4

Total time:

2 lamb neck fillets, about 550-625g total weight

2 tbsp olive oil

1 clove garlic, minced

2 tsp ras el hanout

400ml lamb stock

1 orange

60g olives with pits

2 pears

Preheat oven to 125C. Cut the lamb into large chunks and season liberally with salt and pepper. Heat the oil in an ovenproof casserole. Brown the lamb, ensuring it is seared on all sides. Do this in batches so the pan isn’t overcrowded. Place the lamb on a plate then sauté the garlic with the ras el hanout for a minute or two. Add the lamb back in along with the stock.

Peel the orange, creating one long strip. Juice it, then add the peel and juice to the pan. Bring to a simmer, then cover and place in the oven. Cook for around 2 hours or until the meat is tender.

Strain and degrease the cooking liquid. An easy way is to pour the liquid into a measuring jug and pop in the refrigerator. The grease will rise to the top and congeal. Scoop off the fat then return the liquid to the casserole along with the meat. Core the pear and slice into chunks. Pit the olives and tear or slice in half. Add both to the pan.

Bring to a simmer then place back in the oven until the pears are just cooked through – about 15 minutes, depending on how ripe they are.

Follow Julia @juliapleonard

====== 704 ========

WINES OF THE WEEK: EIGHT BOTTLES FROM MADEIRA

There are a group of musicians clad in peasant costumes singing and playing traditional wine harvest songs and an excited queue of people, having sated themselves on the local barbecued beef, waiting to get knee deep in crushed grapes…

Welcome to the Annual Wine Festival on the semi-tropical, volcanic Portuguese island of Madeira, taking place on a cliff top farm, not far from the capital of Funchal, where I’ve come to enjoy this hospitality and sample the fruits of the harvest – or, actually, the harvests which took place some years ago.

As a holiday destination, Madeira has many things in its favour – a year round mild climate, gardens brimming with exotic plants and spectacular, sometimes vertiginous wooded hillsides above the endless Atlantic blue – but it has a singular purpose in its wine making: the creation of one of the world’s most distinctive wines, also known as Madeira.

This distinctiveness comes in three ways: the island is overwhelmingly devoted to producing just this particular type of wine, with ancient techniques refined over centuries, making it the only wine that both improves in flavour from being heated and one that does not go off once the bottle is opened.

Like sherry and port, the young Madeira wines are fortified by grape spirit – deriving from the custom of adding brandy to wine barrels to prevent it deteriorating on long sea journeys – but unlike the others, Madeira does not become unpleasant to drink after the bottle has been opened for a few days. Indeed, it can last open, for many years, unopened for 100 years or more, still retaining freshness and vivacity derived from the volcanic soils.

That regular heat improved the quality of wine was also, legend has it, discovered by those ships ploughing through the tropics – the island was on the main trading routes of the British and Portuguese empires – and subsequently introduced to the wine making process itself; using the island’s natural warm air or artificial heat, as the wine ages in oak casks.

The grapes are grown on steep terraces on small plots around the island and hand picked because mechanical harvesting is impractical. And the grapes: the local tinto negra is the everyday backbone, but the finest wines tend to be made from the white grapes sercial, which is the driest, verdhelo, bual and malvasia, the sweetest. Wines are barrel-aged and bottled with blends from different vintages, as with sherry.

Again, like those other fortified wines, colonial era British traders and investors played a vital part in developing the Madeira trade and it became a fixture of the domestic wine cellar and dining table although as many know it from its use around the kitchen to deglaze pans to make delicious sauces – although it is nothing to do with the cake of the same name.

One of those British companies was Blandy’s, in business for more than 200 years, still owned by the same family and one of the small number of producers dominating the trade. Its large lodge in the centre of Funchal is testimony to its importance to the island and where, tonight, there will be more music, food, grape treading and, crucially wine drinking, although the majority of table wine drunk is from the Portuguese mainland. Blandy’s do make a couple of perfectly good table wines for local consumption, but the visitors are really here to raid Blandy’s cellars for some of their signature Madeira wines, bottles of which line the walls of this ancient building.

Madeira is an ideal festive wine: it matches so many of our seasonal foodstuffs and if you don’t finish the bottle, it will last as long as you want it to. If you haven’t got time to visit the island between now and Christmas, what wines are available here in the UK? It’s also important to remember that while Madeira is commonly described as a dessert wine, like sherry, it has drier versions wonderful as an aperitif or with nuts, savoury canapes, cured meats and hard cheeses.

Blandy’s are of course well represented in the UK. Their take on sercial is the tawny coloured, fresh and nutty Blandy’s Duke of Sussex Sercial Madeira (£12.59 drinksupermarket.com) which makes a great introduction to the style while Blandy’s Alvada 5-year-old (£12.85 thewhiskyexchange.com; £17.50 davywine.co.uk; both 50cl) is a new blend of bual and malmsey and the idea festive dessert standby, delivering rich and resonant flavours to accompany all kinds of puddings; Blandy’s 10-Year-Old Malmsey (£18.75 thewhiskyexchange.com; £19.46 thedrinkshop.com; 50 cl) is deep and complex, with spices, toffee and caramel notes in the mix; both the latter are ideal for Christmas puddings, cakes and for blue cheeses.

There are other big names in Madeiras as well, including Henriques & Henriques. For their take on sercial, try the very dry H&H 10-Year-Old Sercial Madeira (£19.99 waitrose.com; £20.00 thewinesociety.com 50cl) with an incredibly long finish as you relish the flavours of nuts and citrus. Or the Berry Bros. & Rudd Spy, 5-Year-Old Sercial (£15.16 bbr.com 50cl) with has floral aromas and notes of figs and other dried fruits.

Slightly less dry, the Barbeito 10-Year-Old Verdelho (£31.75 leaandsandeman.co.uk) has some slightly sweeter notes of dried apricots emerging amid the nuttiness; again this a lovely aperitif or with an aged Cheddar and home made chutney. One step up the sweetness scale is the pure bual from Henriques & Henriques: H&H 10-Year-old Bual Madeira (£18.83 thedrinkshop.com; £18.95 cotswoldport.co.uk) medium rich, lots of toffee and caramel notes, remaining clean on the palate.

Justino’s is one of the other revered names, so for something really special with your Christmas pudding, try the Justino’s Madeira Colheita 1996 (£18.95 for 37.5cl rudewines.co.uk; £45.00 for 75cl laithwaites.co.uk) a rare, exceptional single year vintage made solely from the Tinto Negra grape: notes of chocolate, coffee, caramel overlaid by rich dark fruits. Yes, it is expensive, but it will keep for another couple of decades. And its not just for deglazing pans…

====== 705 ========

CHRISTMAS WITH DICKENS: CLASSIC VICTORIAN FESTIVE RECIPES FROM THE AUTHOR'S NOVELS

R oast goose

Poor families would ensure that they got their Christmas goose by paying into a goose club and, without an oven, having it roasted by the baker. In A Christmas Carol, the Cratchit children go wild outside the bakery at the smell of sage and onion stuffing, and the whole family admire their goose’s flavour (and cheapness).

Mrs Cratchit ekes it out with apple sauce and mashed potatoes. A turkey, costlier and harder to buy in cities, is what the reformed Scrooge treats the Cratchit family to.

Serves 8–10

1 goose, about 11–13½ lb/5–6kg (with giblets and neck)

1 onion, peeled

a few sprigs of sage or thyme

For the stuffing

2 large onions, finely chopped

3 tablespoons freshly chopped sage

4 cups/200g stale breadcrumbs

a little salt and freshly ground black pepper

2 free-range eggs

a little hot stock

For the gravy

goose neck, chopped goose wings

1 carrot, roughly chopped

1 onion, roughly chopped giblets

2 bay leaves

6 peppercorns

1 tablespoon all-purpose/plain flour

To serve

potatoes and/or root vegetables, for roasting alongside the goose

unsweetened apple sauce/stewed apple

Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C/Gas 6.

Chop off the wings and keep these for the stock. Pull out all the fat from inside the bird and cut off any extra visible fat. (Melt this fat gently in a saucepan, then strain it through a fine strainer/sieve or muslin. Keep in a jar in the fridge to roast vegetables or lean meat, such as rabbit.)

To make the stuffing, sweat the onions in a little of the goose fat until they are translucent. Add the sage, breadcrumbs, and seasoning, and bind with the eggs and a few spoonfuls of hot stock—the mixture should be moist enough to bind together but not at all sloppy. You can cook the stuffing separately if you prefer. If you are using it to stuff the goose, you will need to weigh the stuffing first.

Using a sharp skewer or knife, prick the skin of the bird all over, without going into the meat below (this will help the fat to run off). Rub salt into the skin and the cavity of the goose, and put either the peeled onion and sprigs of sage or thyme, or the stuffing, into the cavity.

To calculate the cooking time, add the weight of the stuffing to the weight of the bird if you are cooking the two together; cook for 15 minutes per 1 lb/450g plus 15 minutes; add 30 minutes’ resting time.

Place the goose on a wire rack above a tray and roast in the preheated oven for the required time. Baste from time to time with the fat that collects in the tray. If the goose browns too quickly, cover the breast with foil.

Meanwhile, make the stock for the gravy by frying the chopped neck and wings and vegetables in a little goose fat in a large pan. Pour off any excess fat, add the giblets, bay leaves, and peppercorns and 1¾ pints/1 litre water. Let this simmer for 1½ hours, then strain and set aside.

When you are ready to roast your potatoes and vegetables (about 30 minutes before the goose comes out of the oven), pour out the fat from the tray, leaving enough for roasting (either take the goose out and put it on a board, holding it with two clean dish towels, or put another tray temporarily underneath, so the fat doesn’t drip onto the floor of your oven). Continue to roast the goose on the rack with the vegetables in the tray below. If you are cooking the stuffing separately, place it in a gratin dish and cook in the oven for 30 minutes.

When the goose is cooked through and the juices run clear, transfer it to a large plate, cover with foil, and let it rest for 20–30 minutes before carving. To make the gravy, thicken the juices in the roasting tray with a little flour over a low heat, and slowly add the strained stock. Pour into a gravy boat. Serve with unsweetened apple sauce/stewed apple.

Lobster patties

In the novel Dombey and Sons, Paul Dombey’s christening feast is a grand but icy occasion with its “cold fowls-ham-patties-salad-lobster”. These lobster patties are luxurious and also warm – perfect for winter festivities. Eliza Acton commends the Victorian patty (from the French for pastry) as an elegant and economical way of making lobster stretch further “at supper parties” and for using up leftover turkey, fowls,partridges, or pheasant.

Makes 4 patties

12 oz/350g ready-made puff pastry

1 cup/250ml fish or chicken stock

1 level dessertspoon all-purpose/plain flour

1 cup/250ml light/single cream

a few drops of lemon juice

1 cooked lobster, meat chopped

Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C/Gas 6. Line a baking tray with baking parchment paper.

To make the pastry cases, roll out the pastry to ½ inch/12mm thick, taking care to keep it even so it rises evenly. Cut 2½-inch/6-cm circles and transfer them to the lined baking tray. Dip a 1¼-inch/3-cm cutter into very hot water and use it to cut halfway through the pastry. Bake in the preheated oven for 10–15 minutes until well risen and golden brown.

To make the lobster sauce, boil the stock to reduce it by half. In a bowl, mix the flour with a tablespoon of the cream, then stir in the rest of the cream. Gradually stir the warm stock into the cream mixture. Return it to the pan, add the lemon juice, and heat very gently, stirring all the time, for about 5 minutes, until it is a thick coating consistency. Take it off the heat. Add the chopped lobster meat.

Scoop out the lids of the patties using a sharp knife and trim the insides of the patties. Fill with the lobster sauce and serve warm. This filling can be made with any fish or meat, using fish or meat stock as appropriate.

Chestnut and apple mince pies

Makes 12 deep-filled pies

This old Scottish recipe brings together the chestnuts from the trees around Joe’s forge in Great Expectations and the mincemeat that went into Mrs Joe’s “handsome mince-pie,” made before Pip stole the leftovers for Magwitch. The chestnut paste lightens the mix and gives a delightful toffee-ish taste.

For the pastry

2 2/3 cups/350g all-purpose/plain flour

¾ cup/175g cold butter

1 egg yolk

beaten egg or milk, to glaze

For the mincemeat

1 large cooking apple, peeled, cored, and finely chopped (approx. 7 oz/200g)

1 cup/200g cooked chestnuts, finely chopped

6½ tablespoons/80g dark soft brown sugar

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

2 tablespoons brandy

zest of an orange or clementine

1½ cups/180g mixed raisins, currants, and golden raisins/sultanas

½ cup/60g candied/mixed peel

1 cup/100g suet

To make the pastry, sift the flour into a large bowl. Cut the cold butter into small pieces in the flour using a knife, then stir until every piece is coated with flour. Using your fingertips, rub the butter into the flour until it is no longer visible. Add 2 tablespoons iced water to the egg yolk, and stir this into the flour. Mix with the blade of a knife, adding a little more cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Bring it together into a ball with your hands, touching it as little as possible. Cover with clingfilm, and chill in the fridge for 20–30 minutes or until ready to use.

To make the mincemeat, cook the apple, chestnuts, and sugar together in a very little water for 15–20 minutes until soft and toffee-ish. Purée them together with the cinnamon, brandy, and orange zest. Adjust the flavourings to taste. Allow to cool, then mix in the dried fruit and suet. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C/Gas 6.

Roll out the pastry to about 1/8 inch/3mm thick, and cut into rounds of about 4 inches/10cm to line muffin trays. Fill each pastry case with mincemeat, packing down the mixture.

Roll out the remaining pastry and cut into rounds of about 3¼ inches/ 8cm to form the lids. Crimp them together and seal with beaten egg or milk. Decorate the tops (or replace the lids) with holly leaves, stars, angels, or bells, cut from the pastry trimmings, then brush the surface with beaten egg or milk. Bake in the preheated oven for about 15–20 minutes until golden.

'Christmas with Dickens' by Pen Vogler, published by CICO Books (£9.99) is out now. Photography by Ria Osborne

====== 706 ========

HOW TO MAKE A CAMEMBERT, WALNUT AND GRAPE TRAY BAKE

C amembert, walnut and grape tray bake

Prep: 30 mins

Serves 4

150g ciabatta

Small bunch of rosemary

1 camembert

1 garlic clove, thinly sliced

Splash of white wine

500g black grapes, broken into small bunches

Salt and pepper

3 tbsp olive oil

2 tbsp honey

1 tbsp sherry vinegar

Salt and pepper, to taste

130g walnuts

Preheat the oven to 180C. Tear the ciabatta into large chunks and thread two or three chunks onto the rosemary sticks.

Remove the wax paper from the camembert and score the top with a crosshatch pattern using a sharp knife, stud with a little of the rosemary and garlic, splash over a little wine and place either back in the box, or in a camembert baker.

Arrange all the ingredients (except the walnuts) on a baking tray with the camembert at the centre. Drizzle everything with the olive oil, honey and sherry vinegar, then season with salt and pepper.

Bake in the oven for 10 minutes, then sprinkle over the walnuts and bake for a further 10 minutes – or until the walnuts are golden brown and the grapes have released some of their juices.

Place the tray directly on to the table to serve, dipping the walnuts, bread and grapes into the gooey camembert.

Recipe from California Walnuts (californiawalnuts.uk)

====== 707 ========

BLACK SEA COOKBOOK: RECIPES FROM ZELNIK PIE TO FISH SOUP

A bigos for Adam Mickiewicz

Bigos is Poland’s ultimate wintertime stew. Historically, it was made in forest clearings where hunters would drop their game into the pot to add to the pickled fruit and sauerkraut. In Pan Tadeusz, Adam Mickiewicz’s epic poem, he writes of bigos: "In the pots warmed the bigos; mere words cannot tell of its wondrous taste, colour and marvellous smell".

Aromatic bigos is mega-meaty and only its rainbow colours, red peppers, yellow carrots, jet-black prunes, pink bacon, match its complex flavours.

Serves 6

600ml/2½ cups beef or chicken stock

50g/1¾oz dried porcini​

a good knob of butter

1 teaspoon vegetable oil

1 onion, sliced into half moons

2 yellow (or orange) carrots, peeled and sliced into coins

1 red pepper, deseeded and diced

1 teaspoon caraway seeds, lightly crushed

1 teaspoon dried marjoram

2 tablespoons sweet paprika

1 teaspoon sharena sol (see below)

2 tablespoons brown sugar

½ white cabbage, shredded

1 apple, peeled and cut into matchsticks (or grated if easier)

250g/8¾oz sauerkraut, drained

1 x 400g/14oz can plum tomatoes

4 slices of smoked bacon, cut into bite-sized pieces

1 fresh bay leaf

100g/3½oz dried prunes, roughly chopped

300g/10½oz smoked kabanos Polish sausage, chopped into bite-sized pieces

salt and freshly ground black pepper

In a medium pan, boil the stock, remove from the heat and add the porcini. Leave to rehydrate for at least 15 minutes.

Heat the butter and oil (which will stop the butter burning) in a large flameproof casserole, add the onion, carrots and pepper and sauté until the onion is translucent. In a bowl, mix together the caraway, marjoram, paprika, sharena sol and brown sugar, then stir in.

Add the shredded cabbage, apple, sauerkraut, plum tomatoes (broken apart a bit before adding), bacon, bay leaf and the stock with porcini. Boil then simmer with the lid on, on the lowest heat possible, for 2 hours. Adjust the seasoning, adding salt and pepper to taste, then add the prunes and sausage, increase the heat slightly and simmer again, with the lid on, for 10 minutes.

Serve with decent beer, cold vodka and Polish rye bread. This is all the more delicious reheated the next day.

Sharena Sol

This is a colourful salt mix and it is a staple in Bulgarian kitchens. As its name suggests, it is salt pounded with spices, typically paprika, and possibly fenugreek and cumin, and it’s sprinkled on bread, fish, chicken and eggs.

20g/¾oz cumin seeds, toasted

1 tablespoon dried fenugreek leaves (also known as kasuri methi)

50g/1¾oz flaky sea salt

1 tablespoon smoked bittersweet paprika (or your preferred paprika)

Bash together the toasted cumin seeds and fenugreek leaves in a pestle and mortar. Once the cumin is lightly crushed, add the salt and paprika to the mixture. Bash a few more times until the sea salt is roughly crushed, but not too fine. Store in an airtight container.

Afternoon zelnik pie

When I first recreated this Bulgarian zelnik at home my husband, James, and I stood at the kitchen counter eating it warm, mid-afternoon. He said, "this is a perfect afternoon pie, it could easily take the place of a 3 o’clock tea-time cake." It was in the afternoon I ate it in Bulgaria too, with the ladies of Malko Tarnovo, hence the name.

Serves 4

5 tablespoons rapeseed oil

5 shallots, thinly sliced into rings

¼ teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg

200g/7oz rainbow chard (or kale), washed, leaves torn to shreds and stalks cut into matchsticks

200g/7oz spinach, washed

leaves of 2 large sprigs of mint

good handful of lovage (optional, if in season)

1 large egg, lightly beaten, plus an extra egg, beaten, to glaze

300g/10½oz white feta-style sheep’s cheese, crumbled

40g/3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

270g/9½oz filo pastry

1 tablespoon caraway seeds

salt and freshly ground black pepper

Preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F/gas mark 4. Heat 3 tablespoons of the rapeseed oil in a large saucepan and cook the shallots gently with a pinch of salt until translucent, then add the nutmeg and a generous few grinds of black pepper and stir together, remove to a large mixing bowl and set aside.

In the same pan, add the remaining oil and chard stems, cooking them for 2 minutes. Remove to the mixing bowl then, cooking in batches, gently wilt all the greens (if they’re not dry they will spit), including the mint and lovage, if using. Once cooled, if the greens have released water, squeeze this out.

Transfer to the mixing bowl and leave to cool completely before adding the egg and cheese. Mix and set aside. Grease a round 20–23cm/8–9in round tin with some of the melted butter, and cut the filo sheets into rounds to fit the shape of the tin (10–12 sheets in total). Lay 2 filo rounds in the base of the tin, brushing each with melted butter.

Sprinkle some caraway seeds over, then add a layer of the greens and cheese and repeat these layers, each time brushing the filo with melted butter. End with a top layer of 2 filo rounds, brushed with plenty of butter, a little beaten egg and with a sprinkling of caraway.

Bake for around 35 minutes, until golden. Leave the pie to cool in the tin for 10 minutes before slicing into it. Serve with a pot of afternoon tea.

Banker’s fish soup

One freezing morning in January, I wandered into a tiny fish café in Karaköy, Istanbul. There, I met cousins Muhareen and Muhsin, a chef and waiter, respectively, from the Black Sea city of Ardahan, near the Georgian border. They left their home city over a decade ago to serve the bankers around Bankalar Caddesi – Istanbul’s answer to Wall Street and the financial centre of the Ottoman Empire – what they know best: fish.

Their café is so popular, and the turnover so fast, that no ice is used for the little fish counter in the window. As it was winter, my soup came with scorpion fish, but for this recipe any firm white-fleshed fish will do. Monkfish works well. Many of the banks have now relocated from here but this balik corbasi (fish soup) remains the best fish soup I’ve ever eaten. It is very hearty and is somewhere between a stew and a soup. Served with warm white crusty bread it makes for a decent lunch.

Serves 2

2 tablespoons olive oil

½ medium onion, roughly chopped

1 garlic clove, finely chopped

2 carrots, diced

250g/8¾oz celeriac, peeled and diced

500ml/generous 2 cups fish stock

grated zest of ½ lemon

handful of ripe cherry tomatoes, halved

250g/8¾oz monkfish, chopped into bite-sized pieces

salt

To serve

2 tablespoons chopped flat-leaf parsley

white pepper (optional)

lemon wedges

Heat the oil in a pan and gently fry the onion and garlic with a pinch of salt for a couple of minutes until softened. Add the carrots and celeriac and continue cooking for a further 8 minutes.

Pour in the fish stock and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down and simmer with the lid on for around 20 minutes, or until the vegetables are firm but nearly cooked through. Then add the lemon zest, cherry tomatoes and chunks of fish and cook until the fish is cooked through.

Stir in the chopped parsley, dust with a little white pepper, if you like, and serve with the lemon wedges.

Extracted from 'Black Sea' by Caroline Eden (Quadrille, £25) Photography © Ola O Smit

====== 708 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE REUNITES WITH WOMEN WHO INSPIRED GRENFELL CHARITY COOKBOOK

The Duchess of Sussex had a heartfelt reunion with the women who inspired the Together: Our Community Cookbook, a charitable recipe book for which she wrote the foreword.

In September this year, it was announced that the duchess had been making regular private visits to the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London, a communal kitchen that supports members of the community affected by the Grenfell Tower fire.

The duchess and the women working in the kitchen collaborated with one another to create the Together cookbook, which features more than 50 recipes from around the world.

Two months on from the book’s release, the duchess returned to the kitchen to see the impact that the money raised from sales has had on the facility.

Meghan warmly greeted Zaheera Sufyaan, kitchen coordinator, and Abdurahman Sayed, chief executive of the Al-Manaar Muslim Cultural Centre in North Kensington, as she arrived.

She wore a burgundy Club Monaco dress and coat for the occasion, which she promptly covered with an apron as she rolled up her sleeves to help the women prepare an array of food in the kitchen.

When the Hubb Community Kitchen was opened last year following the devastation of the Grenfell Tower fire, it only had enough funding to open its doors for two days a week.

Now, thanks to the duchess’ input and the support that the book has received, the kitchen is open for the community every day.

Following on from the success of the book and the kitchen, some have been launching their own projects to further benefit the community.

These projects include an initiative to give support to women who’ve been affected by domestic violence, a meal-delivery service for women in maternity wards and a healthy snack scheme for children.

In Meghan’s foreword for the cookbook, she highlights the significance of the kitchen as a safe space for those affected by the Grenfell Tower fire.

“Melding cultural identities under a shared roof, it creates a space to feel a sense of normalcy,” she writes.

“In its simplest form, the universal need to connect, nurture, and commune through crisis or joy - something we can all relate to.”

All money raised from the Together cookbook is monitored by the Royal Foundation, of which the duchess is a patron alongside the Duke of Sussex, and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge.

====== 709 ========

THREE EASY THANKSGIVING CRANBERRY SAUCE RECIPES THAT YOU CAN MAKE AT HOME

Thanksgiving Day is full of delicious food - with roasted turkeys, stuffing, and marshmallow-covered sweet potatoes all fighting for room on your plate.

But, if there’s one dish that brings the meal together, it’s the cranberry sauce.

With a slightly-bitter-yet-still-fruity taste, the sugary sauce is a staple on Thanksgiving.

Fortunately, it’s also easy to make if you prefer your cranberry sauce homemade rather than slid out of a can.

Ina Garten’s make-ahead cranberry sauce

For a smoother Thanksgiving Day, Ina Garten recommends making her cranberry sauce the day before - so it’s perfect in time for your 3pm dinner.

To make the dish, the Barefoot Contessa advises gathering one 12-ounce bag of fresh cranberries, one and ¾ cups of sugar, one granny smith apple that’s been peeled, cored, and chopped, grated zest and juice of one orange, and the grated zest and juice of one lemon.

From there, you simply cook the cranberries, sugar, and water together in a saucepan for five minutes over low heat.

Once the skins pop open, add the apple zests, and juices and cook for 15 minutes more.

After removing from the heat and letting cool, the sauce is ready - but should be served chilled.

Bobby Deen’s recipe

For an easy cranberry sauce recipe with a bit more flavour, Bobby Deen incorporates orange juice into his - plus some ground cinnamon.

To create his homemade cranberry sauce, you need ⅔ cup sugar, ½ cup of orange juice with no added sugar, ¼ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, ⅛ teaspoon of kosher salt and one 12-ounce bag of cranberries.

Cooking is as simple as combining the sugar, orange juice, ½ cup of water, the cinnamon, salt and cranberries in a medium saucepan.

Bring the mixture to a simmer over medium heat and cook for 15 minutes - and then let cool before serving.

Spiked cranberry sauce

To add a little fun to the Thanksgiving table, you can also make a spiked cranberry sauce recipe - complete with vodka.

To make the recipe, you need one tablespoon of unflavoured gelatin, ⅓ cup vodka, two tablespoons of orange-flavoured liqueur, such as Cointreau, a 14-ounce can of jellied cranberry sauce and cooking spray.

The first step is putting the gelatin in a small bowl, and pouring the vodka and liqueur over it. Let that sit for 10 minutes, until the gelatin is completely soft.

While the gelatin is sitting, transfer the cranberry sauce to a small saucepan and heat over medium-low heat.

Rinse out the can and coat the inside with cooking spray.

Once the cranberry sauce starts to bubble, “whisk it vigorously” until it’s smooth.

According to the recipe, it should darken and have a slight sheen.

Then remove the sauce from the heat, add the softened gelatin and all the liquid, and stir together.

Pour it into the can and let it sit at room temperature as it cools down. Then cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate - at least for four hours but overnight preferably.

Serve in slices.

====== 710 ========

THANKSGIVING 2018: EIGHT WAYS TO CELEBRATE IN THE UK, FROM A FULL TURKEY FEAST TO A STREET PARADE

On 22 November 2018, millions of people across America will be sitting around the dinner table with friends or family for Thanksgiving, a holiday that commemorates the feast that was shared between the Plymouth colonists and the native Wampanoag Indians in Virginia in 1621.

Thanksgiving has been celebrated in America since 1863, when President Abraham Lincoln declared it an official national holiday.

While the food-focused holiday may be observed primarily in countries including the USA and Canada, there's no reason why Brits can't also join in the fun.

From an epic drag show to a night of American football, here are eight ways to celebrate Thanksgiving in the UK:

1. Indulge in a full Thanksgiving feast

In celebration of Thanksgiving, American eatery Big Easy will be serving up a mouth-watering family meal for all to enjoy.

Available at the Big Easy in Covent Garden, Canary Wharf and on King's Road, the set three-course meal costs £29.50 per person and includes dishes such as butternut squash soup, pit smoked turkey, a spicy black bean burger and banana cream pie.

The restaurant is also holding a wing eating contest on the day of Thanksgiving, where 10 people will be battling it out to win a year's supply of Sierra Nevada beer.

For more information, click here.

2. Enjoy your just desserts

The Dominique Ansel Bakery, which was first opened in New York in 2011, is famous for the creation of numerous baked delights, such as the cronut and the cookie shot.

It should therefore come as no surprise that the bakery is offering a variety of scrumptious desserts in celebration of Thanksgiving.

Head on offer to the Dominique Ansel Bakery in Belgravia for a classic American slice of silky pumpkin pie, bourbon pecan pie or salted caramel apple pie.

For more information, click here.

3. Try a vegan alternative

Just because it's Thanksgiving, that doesn't mean that you have to gorge on turkey.

With one in three Brits actively trying to eat less meat, it's worth checking out the plant-based options that are also available in celebration of the holiday.

By Chloe, the popular American vegan restaurant founded by vegan chef and author Chloe Coscarelli, is serving the Gobble Gobble Thanksgiving burger at its Covent Garden location.

The burger contains lemon-caper seitan, sautéed kale, rosemary gravy, fresh cranberry sauce and harvest stuffing, and is finished off with a potato bun.

For more information, click here.

4. Get swept up in the spirit of the NFL

While food may be the main focus of Thanksgiving, one of the other predominant traditions associated with the holiday is American football.

On 22 November, three NFL American football games will be taking place: the Chicago Bears versus the Detroit Lions, the Washington Redskins versus the Dallas Cowboys and the Atlanta Falcons versus the New Orleans Saints.

To watch all the matches, while also enjoying a three-course meal, head on over to Rileys Sports Bar Haymarket, where tickets cost between £14.95 and £29.95.

For more information, click here.

5. March in the Plymouth parade

In 1620, the Mayflower ship departed from Plymouth, England, carrying the Pilgrims to the 'New World'.

As such, the city of Plymouth is an integral component of the story of Thanksgiving.

On Thursday 22 November, an annual parade will be taking place in Plymouth, starting at 10am at the Mayflower steps where the Pilgrims set off on their journey.

For more information, click here.

6. Have an all-out American experience in the Scottish capital

If you're in the stunning city of Edinburgh, then you're perfectly primed to enjoy a night of US-style food, drink and entertainment at Belushi's bar.

For £25 per person, you'll be treated to a front row seat while watching the NFL matches, a drinks token and a three-course turkey dinner.

The meal includes fried mac 'n' cheese, a turkey burger served in a brioche bun and a deep pan pecan pie served with ice cream for dessert.

For more information, click here.

7. Take part in a historical tradition

Every year on Thanksgiving, a special service is held at St Paul's Cathedral in London in commemoration of the American holiday.

The ceremony is held primarily for the American community in London, but is open to all.

Doors opening at 10am for the service on 22 November and you don't require a ticket to attend. However, it is requested that people bring as little baggage as possible and that they be prepared to walk through metal detectors.

For more information, click here.

8. Let loose at a star-spangled drag show

Let your hair down and be prepared for a night of extravagant fun with the American-themed 'Kiki with Drag Queens' show at Rascals in Shoreditch, London.

Taking place on Friday 30 November and Saturday 1 December, the entertaining show will feature six performances by three drag queens.

If you're feeling peckish, two-for-one pizzas will also be on offer from 6.30pm to 8pm prior to the show's start at 8.30pm.

Tickets cost between £13 and £15.

For more information, click here.

====== 711 ========

PRINCE WILLIAM REVEALS THE DEVASTATING IMPACT OF CHILD ACCIDENTS HE WITNESSED AS AIR AMBULANCE PILOT

The Duke of Cambridge has spoken out about the impact that child accidents had on him in his role as an air ambulance pilot, which he left after two years in July 2017.

The father-of-three explained how one accident in particular “took him over the edge”, leaving him feeling “very sad” and “very down”.

Speaking at the inaugural This Can Happen conference in London, which aims to promote good mental health in the workplace, the royal didn’t clarify what actually happened to the child involved, but explained that having his own young family meant the incident took a toll on him.

“I worked several times on very traumatic jobs involving children,” he began, “and after I had my own children I think the relation between the job and the personal life was what really took me over the edge, and I started feeling things that I have never felt before, and I got very sad and very down about this particular family.”

He recalled how opening up to colleagues at the time helped him to “come to terms with the enormous sadness” of what had happened, but added that this only helped so much.

“Talking was really important, but even that wasn’t quite enough for one particular incident for me."

The Duke used the anecdote as an opportunity to highlight the importance of tackling the taboo surrounding discussing mental health in the workplace, touting the benefits of maintaining normal working hours and easy commutes to boost the overall wellbeing of employees.

“There’s still a stigma about mental health," he continued. "We are chipping away at it but that wall needs to be smashed down.”

Alongside the Duchess of Cambridge and the Duke of Sussex, he runs Heads Together, the initiative that aims to promote good mental wellbeing in schools, offices and the military.

====== 712 ========

ASOS SELLING THE MOONCUP: WHY YOU SHOULD START USING MENSTRUAL CUPS

For many women, pads, panty-liners and tampons are so intrinsic to life we barely give them a second thought.

However, there’s a growing menstrual revolution as we face the ugly truth of many of these products.

This is where alternatives like the menstrual cup come in, with Asos making them even more widely available by selling the Mooncup for £22.

Reusable sanitary items might seem gross, but this is far from the truth.

Products like the Mooncup are a huge help to the environment and your own personal health – and here’s why.

What is the environmental impact of period products?

2018 has been a year of plastic revolution. We’ve started reconsidering how much we’re using plastic and the impact this is having on the environment.

Single-use water bottles and plastic straws are used far less, but menstrual products have definitely been slow to catch up.

Many people don’t realise the environmental damage of necessary items like tampons.

According to the Women’s Environmental Network, every UK woman uses an average of over 11,000 disposable menstrual products in their reproductive lifetimes, and in total this results in more than 200,000 tonnes of waste a year.

And according to the organisation, pads can in some cases be made up of about 90 per cent plastic, which may end up in landfills or even in the sea.

Compare this to the Mooncup – you only need to buy one and it will last you for years. It’s made out of silicone, but is vastly better for the environment because it’s reusable.

What are the health benefits?

The environmental benefits are a huge draw for menstrual cups, but it’s also said to be good for your body. Mooncup says its product won’t dry out vaginal moisture or leave behind fibres when you use it.

It’s also likely to be a good option for people with sensitive skin or allergies, because it’s latex-free, hypoallergenic and free from bleach.

Are there any other positives?

According to the charity Bloody Good Period, the average lifetime cost of your period is around £4,800.

One of the main attractions of the Mooncup is the fact that it will save you money – one £22 payment and you’re set for the next few years.

It’s also worthwhile for people with heavy periods who find they have to change their menstrual products frequently, as a Mooncup holds three times more blood than a regular tampon.

And finally, menstrual cups have convenience going for them.

There’s nothing worse than being hit by a surprise period, only to find out you’ve got no sanitary products in your house – something which can be avoided with a cup that’s always there.

====== 713 ========

HOW WIRELESS IMPLANTS ARE HELPING PARALYSED PEOPLE WALK AGAIN

Someone in the world suffers a spinal cord injury every one to two minutes, often leading to irreversible and life-changing loss of movement and feeling. But two research groups recently achieved something that had never been done before. By implanting electrical devices directly on the spinal cord, they reversed some of the effects of the spinal cord injury and allowed people to independently walk again.

So does this mark the end of the road in considering spinal cord injury as an incurable condition? Or is there still a long way to go before wheelchairs become a thing of the past?

Researchers have been trying to use electrical stimulation to reverse the effects of spinal cord injuries for more than two decades. Artificially increasing electrical activity in the spinal cord helps to activate the nerves that transmit information between the limbs and the brain. While some nerves are permanently damaged by spinal cord injuries, some healthy nerves usually still exist even in the most severely damaged spines, and the electrical impulses give them a boost. In the past two months two studies have been published that significantly push the boundaries of what can be done with this technology.

In a study directed by Kendal Lee and Kristin Zhao at the Mayo Clinic in the US, a patient with complete paralysis in their lower body managed to walk 100 metres with a walking frame thanks to a spinal implant. This kind of device, called an epidural electrical stimulator (EES), sends electrical signals to the healthy nerves at the bottom part of the spine (which must be intact in order for the technique to work).

The device uses a pulse generator implanted under the skin to send the appropriate signal to electrodes attached to the dura, the protective layer for the nerves in the spinal cord. The procedure is minimally intrusive and patients can return home on the same day. Living with the implanted stimulator is in many ways similar to living with a pacemaker device.

Overcoming these sorts of complete spinal cord injuries represents a phenomenal outcome and a new milestone in restoring motion

EES devices have been tested on patients with paralysis before, but overcoming these sorts of complete spinal cord injuries represents a phenomenal outcome and a new milestone in restoring motion.

But the study only showed how improvements could be made while the implanted device remained operational. This shortcoming has now been addressed by another study of three patients with partial spinal cord damage by researchers from EPFL in Switzerland. After five months of spinal stimulation, the patients found some of their feeling and movement was restored even when their implants were turned off. One of the patients showed enough improvement when not using the device to change their injury classification from “C” to “D”, representing the least severe injuries.

The device worked in real time, delivering precise stimulation to the relevant part of the spinal cord at the exact time it was needed, which made using it much more intuitive. The initial results also emerged within a couple of weeks, rather than the months of rehabilitation usually needed.

Unprecedented breakthrough

These studies have shown unprecedented results in treating spinal cord injuries. These breakthroughs are coming as a result of both technological advancements in implanted devices as well as an increasing understanding on how our brain communicates with and controls our body.

Having demonstrated the proof of principle for applying spinal stimulation on people with paraplegia, it is now time to push the boundaries of this technique outside the confines of the lab and into the real world. Researchers will need to conduct bigger clinical studies that observe a much larger number of patients from their initial injury and device implantation through to the end of the rehabilitation. We need to assess the full advantages of the treatment and create standards for doctors to follow before this treatment can become available to the wider population.

It’s still uncertain if people with the most severe spinal cord injuries will benefit from the improvements when the device is switched off. Particularly for those with injuries so severe that no nerves are preserved at all, it is likely that this approach will not work, as there is no remaining signal to boost. In those cases, other techniques that try to bridge and repair injury will be needed to offer improvements.

Yet while we might not have so far found a way to cure spinal cord injuries once and for all, the growing volume of results from independent research groups using a variety of approaches makes it seem certain we will reach that day soon.

Ioannis Dimitrios Zoulias is a postdoctoral researcher in biomedical engineering at the University of Reading. This article first appeared on The Conversation

====== 714 ========

BLAMING PARENTS ENTIRELY FOR CHILDREN’S WEIGHT GAIN IS ‘UNFAIR’

While some may believe that the way in which parents feed their children can have a huge impact on their chances of gaining weight, scientists at King’s College London and University College London have claimed that this may not necessarily be the case.

Rather, the way in which parents feed their young ones is likely to depend on their children’s natural weight, the researchers explain.

In a study published in journal PLOS Genetics, the team explored the correlation between a child’s “genetic predisposition towards a higher or lower weight” and their parent’s feeding techniques.

The researchers used data from the Twins Early Development Study from 1994 to 1996, which includes around 4,500 pairs of twins born in England and Wales, and answers collated from a Child Feeding Questionnaire.

They then calculated whether a child had a genetic predisposition for a higher or lower weight, and compared it to the parents’ feeding styles.

“We found that parents whose children were genetically predisposed to have a lower weight were more pressuring of them to eat, and those parents whose children were genetically predisposed to have a higher weight were more restrictive over how much and what they were allowed to eat,” explains lead author Saskia Selzam, from the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience at King’s College London.

“Our findings suggest that parents develop their feeding practices in response to their child’s natural tendency towards a higher or lower weight.

This suggests that parents adapt their feeding techniques depending on the weight of their children, as opposed to the other way around.

“The way a parent feeds their child may also influence their child’s weight to some extent, but our results challenge the prevailing view that parental behaviour is the major influence on childhood obesity.”

"These results show that parents are not the 'full story' when it comes to a child's weight, and blaming parents for being too controlling about feeding may be unfair," says senior author Dr Clare Llewellyn from University College London.

Earlier this year, a weight loss expert was criticised online for claiming that “fat parents” are to blame for the childhood obesity epidemic.

====== 715 ========

ASPERGER SYNDROME: WHAT IS IT AND HOW MANY PEOPLE DOES IT AFFECT?

I’m A Celebrity’s Anne Hegerty has been praised online for opening up about living with Asperger’s on the TV show.

She said: “I do respond well to structure. I think it will be quite structured in there. I will understand, ‘at this time I have to fetch wood and water’, doing that will make sense.

“But being surrounded by people I can’t get away from, or those who talk all the time, can be a source of stress.”

Earlier this year, Love Island's Niall Aslam also revealed on Instagram that he was diagnosed with Asperger syndrome as a child.

Many people expressed their support for the student and construction worker, praising him for speaking openly about the condition on social media.

Asperger’s is an autism spectrum disorder that can make it harder for those affected to interact with others in a social environment.

The term was named after an Austrian paediatrician called Hans Asperger, who wrote about children who exhibited signs of the condition in 1944.

However, some have argued that the name should be changed in light of the doctor’s recently reported affiliation with the Nazis during World War II.

There are thousands of people in the UK who have autism, as Jane Harris, director of external affairs at the National Autistic Society (NAS), explains.

“There are around 700,000 autistic people like Niall in the UK, but too many of their lives are limited by the public not understanding the challenges they face,” she says.

“By talking so openly about his diagnosis and the reasons he left Love Island, Niall has played an important role in bringing autism to the public’s attention.”

Here’s everything that you need to know about Asperger syndrome:

What is it?

Asperger syndrome falls within the autism spectrum, as explained by Autism NI.

Those who have been diagnosed with Asperger syndrome may not have the same learning disabilities that some people who have autism sometimes experience, such as difficulties or delays with speech.

However, as NAS explains, some people with Asperger syndrome may still have some learning difficulties and can find it hard to comprehend or process language at times.

The charity also points out that Asperger’s shouldn’t be perceived as an illness that can be “cured”, but as a condition that forms an integral component of an individual’s identity.

Those who have been diagnosed with Asperger’s are thought to have average or above average levels of intelligence.

What are the symptoms?

As Asperger syndrome is an autism spectrum disorder, diagnosing it can be tricky as symptoms can vary between individuals.

According to Autism Initiatives, a company that connects autism networks around the UK and Ireland, symptoms of Asperger syndrome may include finding it difficult to read body language, lacking signs of empathy, developing motor skills later than usual and being very sensitive.

These symptoms can often be recognised in childhood when children with the condition enter social situations that they haven’t experienced before.

Diagnosing Asperger’s can take a team of health experts, as outlined by NAS.

These professionals can include a speech and language therapist, a psychiatrist and a paediatrician.

The NHS recommends visiting your GP if you believe that your child is exhibiting signs of autism spectrum disorder.

You’ll then be referred to a health professional who can diagnose the condition if needs be.

How many people are affected?

NAS states that 700,000 people in the UK are autistic, which equates to around one in 100 people.

Diagnoses of autism are currently more common among boys than they are among girls, a topic that’s been researched on multiple occasions over the years.

In 2015, a study conducted by the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore explored why girls are often diagnosed with autism later than boys by investigating an online registry of 50,000 people.

They came to the conclusion that the way girls behave sometimes makes it harder to recognise symptoms of autism until later on in childhood or adolescence.

Ms Harris of NAS is hopeful that Niall’s announcement will inspire more people to learn about autism.

“We really hope that Love Island contestant Niall Aslam’s revelation that he is autistic will encourage fans of the show to find out more about autism,” she says.

“The National Autistic Society wishes this ‘Rainbow Fish’ lots of success on his journey.”

====== 716 ========

HOW PEOPLE SUFFERING FROM LONELINESS ARE FINDING HAPPINESS AGAIN

“It can get terribly lonely at home when it’s just you and the four walls. Well, the four walls and the cat.” Bob Sawyer, 76, has lived alone since the death of his wife and says that since her death he has often felt lonely.

After spending a short time in hospital, a community support worker advised Sawyer to take part in a social activity hoping it could improve both his mental and physical health. Luckily for him, nestled in a housing estate just outside of Crawley, The Posh Club meets weekly.

Every Tuesday guests gather as the local community centre is transformed into a ballroom that plays host to a tongue in cheek 1940s style tea party for over-60s. Guests from all backgrounds are welcome and are encouraged to dress up for the event, where there is a range of different performances each week including Elvis tributes, musical one-man bands and burlesque showgirls.

The Posh Club was set up by Annie Bowden and her brother five years ago after Bowden’s mother moved to Crawley from London, following the death of her partner. Bowden began holding tea parties for her and her elderly neighbours and, after seeing how much it was enjoyed, her brother began applying for funding to try to do it on a bigger scale.

“We managed to get funding to do a 10-week pilot scheme in Crawley and it was a big success. We were doing lots of different stuff back then. We had a hairdresser one week then we tried putting a film on, but now we’ve honed it into this and, for us, it’s near perfect,” she explains.

“This is different to other services, it’s like going to The Ritz and going to a show all in the same day. It’s just being looked after and made to feel really special. They come along and they’re not just sat down on their own, we introduce people and make sure they’re all OK,” Bowden adds.

The Posh Club has regular events in London and the south of England all taking place in grassroots community venues, with more expansion planned for 2019.

Sawyer admits to originally being hesitant about the idea of the club, but after attending for almost a year now, he says that it is the highlight of his week. “It does you good to get out and about, I go and collect Louise beforehand then we come here together. I really don’t know what I’d do without it, to be honest. It gives me something to live for,” he explains.

Since attending the club Sawyer has become friends with Louise Brice, 84, who also lives alone and like him had the club recommended to her by a community support worker. She too believes her health has improved since joining. “I barely ever go to the doctors now and I’m never really ill.”

Brice moved to the UK from Mexico City where she grew up and has lived here for 59 years. “We’re very, very lucky to have this here. The acts are always brilliant and the cakes are lovely. It’s a place to make friends and chat with people,” she says.

“There’s not much of that if you live on your own, as a lot of us do. Without the club, I would have never met Bob and he really does make me laugh.”

Creating friendships like this is something The Posh Club enables elderly people to do and, week in week out, Bowden sees the benefits it has. “You can see what a difference it makes to them. They give us the most brilliant feedback every week. People tell us how it has changed their lives, how they’ve made friendships and just how they have had a lovely time.”

Known as social prescribing, this practice allows health care professionals to prescribe something other than traditional medicine. Instead, patients are directed to services and organisations that are better equipped to help improve their health and wellbeing.

This has been acknowledged in the government’s first loneliness strategy announced by Theresa May last month. The plan promises to push GPs to use social prescribing when dealing with elderly patients who may be showing signs and symptoms of loneliness.

Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, Chair of the Royal College of GPs, welcomed this decision: “Not everyone will benefit from traditional medical care for their health care problems.”

“We know that encouraging patients to take up new hobbies or skills instead of, or alongside, more conventional approaches can have a significant positive impact on their health, particularly their mental wellbeing,” she says.

In England, around 1.4 million people over the age of 50 suffer from loneliness, a figure that is expected to rise by half a million people by 2020 according to research by Age UK.

Jill Mortimer, policy manager at Age UK, is acutely aware of these dangers. “Loneliness can be intensely negative. The health effects can range from issues like depression and anxiety. Studies have shown people can be twice as likely to develop Alzheimer’s or that it is as detrimental as smoking 15 cigarettes a day.”

Mortimer believes that GPs have a key role to play in tackling loneliness, working to identify elderly people who could be feeling isolated and making them aware of the organisations that can help them.

“Once a relationship has been built with someone who is feeling lonely, more can be done to help that,” she says. “It could be they need benefit advice or a befriending service, accompaniment to go to a local dance class, the gym or a coffee morning; there really are all sorts of things. But there needs to be someone in the community who knows what is going on and has the expertise to be able to help people connect.”

We know that encouraging patients to take up new hobbies or skills can have a significant positive impact

Another innovative model to deal with loneliness and isolation is Channel 4’s, Old People’s Home for 4 Year Olds. The programme, which has just finished its second series, pairs a group of 10 elderly people with a preschool class over a period of 12 weeks to see how they can benefit each other.

The older participants, the eldest of whom is 102, are given a range of cognitive and physical tests that can be evaluated at the end of the series.

The show is full of intensely heartwarming moments shared between the two groups, like the friendship that grows between Ken, 87, and Lily, 4. After the pair met on the first day they became best friends, with Lily inviting Ken to her family home for a birthday dinner. Ken even manages to climb into Lily’s tree house after a slice of birthday cake.

Another elderly patient who shows an incredible improvement is Victor, 97, who admitted to becoming a hermit after his wife of 66 years died. In one episode, there is a particularly touching moment when he is convinced to dance for the first time since her death.

At the end of the 12 weeks, the visible difference in the elderly participants is so strong that, regardless of the original test results, it seems the trail was a success. However, there is also empirical evidence to support the project, with Ken displaying a huge improvement in strength and 102-year-old Sylvia reversing the diagnoses that defined her as medically frail.

The other great benefit of the show is the impact it has on the preschool students, showing that elderly people still have an enormous amount to give. Young participants showed improvements in language and vocabulary whilst developing emotional skills. This is powerfully illustrated by Mason, 4, who went back to locate his 81-year-old teammate who had got lost during a challenge that asked participants to find their way out of a maze.

In addition to the benefits shown by these projects, making an effort to tackle loneliness can also have significant monetary benefits. Research completed by the Campaign to End Loneliness has found that for every £1 spent on helping those who are feeling lonely £2-3 is saved by the NHS.

This makes sense considering a study, again completed by the Campaign to End Loneliness, found that three out of four GPs report they see between one and five lonely people a day and that only 13 per cent feel confident that they are equipped to help a patient who is feeling lonely.

The prime minister says the government’s loneliness strategy is a “national mission to end loneliness in our lifetimes”, an idea that Mortimer believes may be difficult. “I don’t think you will ever end loneliness,” she says.

Contact The Posh Club via their website to find out more about the services they provide. Catch up on Old People’s Home for 4 Year Olds​ on All 4

====== 717 ========

CHILDREN WHO ARE ALLOWED TO DRINK ALCOHOL MORE LIKELY TO BINGE DRINK LATER IN LIFE

Experts have dispelled the myth that introducing children to alcohol at an early age will take away the novelty of it and prevent them from becoming heavy drinkers as adults.

In fact, the opposite may be true, claim health campaigners, citing evidence which shows that children who start drinking earlier are more likely to binge drink later on in their lives.

In a campaign called What’s the Harm, medical officials are urging parents to delay introducing their children to alcohol as much as possible, insisting that no child should drink at all before the age of 15.

Colin Shevills, director of the alcohol awareness group Balance, is calling on parents to abide by guidelines published in 2009 by the chief medical officer for England, Liam Donaldson, which says that it’s healthiest for children not to drink at all until they turn 18.

A survey carried out by Balance reveals that almost half (43 per cent) of parents think children should be introduced to alcohol before they turn 15.

"The medical advice is clear, no alcohol before 18 is the safest and best option and absolutely not before 15. It can affect brain development and is linked to mental ill health," he tells The Independent.

According to Shevills, only one in 20 adults are aware of this guidance.

"As a result, parents think they are doing the right thing by providing alcohol to their kids," he continues. "But children receiving alcohol at home are more likely to drink outside the home."

“We know from speaking to north-east parents there's a myth that providing alcohol at a young age makes children less curious, when in fact it can be a trigger for drinking," Shevills added in a statement.

"People mention the French way of giving children alcohol – but France actually has twice the rate of alcohol dependence of the UK.”

"We found that a lot of parents were not aware of official guidance around children, and were more likely to call on their own experiences growing up when making decisions about alcohol."

A study published in The Lancet Public Health journal in January revealed that parents who have alcohol to their teenagers increased the risk of them encountering alcohol-related problems as adults, leading researchers to say that giving children alcohol is “not a good idea”.

In October, Shevills issued a statement calling on the government to put an end to alcohol tax breaks in a bid to hike up the costs and make it less affordable for young people.

“Cheap alcohol continues to wreak immense damage and places a huge burden on communities in the North East, the NHS and public services.

"All of us are paying for it and with an NHS under pressure; we just cannot afford any more alcohol duty cuts.”

====== 718 ========

WHY WE SHOULDN'T ALWAYS IGNORE THE FEELING OF PINS AND NEEDLES

Everyone has experienced it: that tingling, prickling feeling you get in your limbs when you’ve been sitting or lying in one position for too long. Medical people call it paresthesia, but to the rest of us it’s “pins and needles”. And here’s how it works.

Our bodies contain miles of nerves and blood vessels. Most people know that nerves carry messages as electrical impulses to and from our brain, and blood carries oxygen and nutrients to our organs. What people are less familiar with is the fact that nerves also need blood vessels and blood vessels need nerves.

Nerves are made of living cells and there are special blood vessels called vasa nervorum that deliver oxygen and other nutrients to them. Blood vessels also need nerves to ensure the body is kept at the right temperature and the right amount of blood gets to where it needs to be. Nerves help change the diameter of blood vessels. For example, when we run, nerves widen blood vessels so that more blood can get to the muscles in our arms and legs.

Any compression of nerves or the blood vessels supplying them interferes with the ability of the nerves to transmit impulses back to the spinal cord and brain, so the brain interprets the lack of signals or abnormal signals as pins and needles in the affected area. Long-term compression can progress from pins and needles to more permanent nerve damage or dysfunction.

When pins and needles gets serious

Some forms of pins and needles are caused by occupation or lifestyle, such as carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). This occurs when the median nerve, which passes through the carpal tunnel (formed by the carpal bones in the hand and a fibrous band of tissue forming a bridge across the bones), becomes compressed by inflamed tendons that also pass through this “tunnel”.

People who use equipment that vibrates, such as pneumatic drills or orbital sanders, are at increased risk of CTS, as are people who play musical instruments or use computer keyboards for long periods of time. These kinds of activities cause stresses and strains through the wrist and carpal tunnel that can pinch the median nerve.

Carpal tunnel syndrome symptoms can be temporarily relieved by shaking the affected hand. But in the longer term it can disappear on its own through ceasing the aggravating activity or by wearing a wrist splint to keep the wrist straight. In some cases, surgery is needed.

Lifestyle induced

While CTS is usually caused by hard work, Saturday night palsy, as the name suggests, usually results from letting your hair down. People get Saturday night palsy when they “fall asleep” with their arm hanging over something, like a chair, bar stool or edge of the bed. Initial pressure causes pins and needles, but this can progress quickly to longer-term damage in the form of palsy.

Saturday night palsy affects the radial nerve in the arm (see diagram above). It is usually damaged at its location next to the biceps muscle and is the most commonly injured nerve in the arm. One study showed more than 70 per cent of reported injuries involved alcohol in some form, and over 75 per cent of people with the condition compressed the nerve for more than two hours, resulting in recovery that took weeks. Evidence shows that this type of alcohol-induced injury is also on the rise.

The same nerve can be injured in another type of palsy. This one is called “honeymoon palsy”. It happens when your partner lays or sleeps on your arm or leg for so long that it causes palsy.

Tight jeans

“Tingling thigh syndrome” and “tight jean syndrome” are terms for a medical condition known as meralgia paresthetica. It is experienced as pins and needles in the outer part of the thigh. These result from compression of a nerve called the “lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh” – meaning the nerve supplying the skin of the lateral thigh.

There are many causes, most widely seen are those associated with trousers that are too tight around the waist; carrying a wallet, keys or phones in pockets; as well as impact to the thigh during sports, such as the asymmetric bars.

While many of the examples listed above are temporary, there are some instances where pins and needles shouldn’t be ignored. For example, tingling in the lips can indicate a food allergy or a stroke. Tingling in the hands and feet can also indicate mineral or vitamin deficiency. So pins and needles is a way of telling you that something is wrong, although most of the time, the cause is benign.

Adam Taylor is a director of the clinical anatomy learning centre and senior lecturer at Lancaster University. This article first appeared on TheConversation.com ​

====== 719 ========

KIDS SEE LESS DAYLIGHT THAN PRISONERS – NO WONDER THEY'RE GETTING RICKETS

The debate about the volume of homework that children are being given has been bouncing around the opinion pages of broadsheets and red tops in recent weeks after Gary Lineker tweeted that it was “a waste of time”. As names are called and sides are taken in the debate, there are much bigger issues at stake than either side is admitting.

As children are given ever more homework we must concede that cramming a child’s day with indoor activities is rolling the dice with their long-term health. As adults, we now spend more time indoors than we have ever done throughout the history of our species. While our indoor habits have implications for our own health, there is more at stake when we encourage this behaviour in our children.

Already, most children are schooled indoors. At the end of their day, there is perhaps an after-school club, tuition or homework to do. When all those are complete, gaming, streaming and social media beckon. As a result, nearly three-quarters of children in the UK spend less time outdoors than prison inmates. A 2016 report concluded that 12 per cent of children in the UK had not been to a park or natural environment at all in the preceding year.

Short-sighted

Outdoor time is essential for children because it helps their eyes, bones and immune systems develop correctly. Evidence is also mounting that it may prevent the onset of food, nut and other allergies.

Babies are born longsighted, with a short eyeball that grows as their bodies do. A healthy eye stops growing when it reaches its optimum shape, but it struggles to do this without access to good quality light – which is only available outdoors. Our eyes are very good at tricking us into believing that our indoor environments are well lit – but even a brightly lit room cannot match the levels of outdoor light, even a cloudy day outside.

Without the correct daylight cues, the eyeball can grow too long, making the child shortsighted; at which point, they will need lenses or surgery to correct their vision. And it’s not just a matter of wearing glasses or paying for some laser surgery. Severe myopia – about a fifth of cases – can lead to blindness in older age. Even though laser surgery can restore vision, the damage done to the eye during development remains, as do the risks.

Several countries in southeast Asia are well ahead of the UK in driving these indoor lifestyles. Most people in Singapore (85 per cent) are shortsighted. Throughout the region, rates are highest among the young. A staggering 96.5 per cent of 19-year-old men in South Korea’s capital, Seoul, are myopic. And while there are a couple of hundred genes at play in the outcome of myopia, the numbers we are seeing are being driven by lifestyle (because it’s believed that genes play only a small to moderate role in the disease’s architecture).

Shortsightedness among the young in the UK has more than doubled in the past 50 years. It is predicted that if nothing is done to curb its spread, half the world’s population will be myopic by 2050.

The sunshine vitamin

Shady living is also in the frame for the return of a disease that was thought to have been eradicated after the Second World War. Sunlight is essential for our body to make vitamin D. Without it, we cannot absorb calcium and phosphate, which we need for healthy bones, teeth and muscles. Endless indoor hours are contributing to the return of rickets among children in the UK. Rickets causes pain, poor growth and soft or weak bones that bend under the weight of the torso.

Vitamin D deficiency has also been associated with the rise of food and nut allergies, where scientists have noticed that the prevalence increases the further you get from the equator. A lack of outdoor time and lack of exposure to natural environments have also been linked to the huge upturn in allergies more broadly, such as hay fever and asthma, as well as type 1 diabetes. In the case of the latter, it has been suggested that “rapid environmental changes and modern lifestyles” are probably behind the increase.

All of these diseases are telling us that, while urban life offers us many comforts and advantages, it is a lifestyle that is confusing to the modern human body. I know from having researched a book on the way our environment is changing us that we carry DNA that expects us to be performing a wide array of outdoor activities, and not to be spending all our time reading, streaming or playing Fortnite.

Making small changes, such as giving your children more access to daylight, even when it’s cloudy, and encouraging regular physical activity, will set them up for a much healthier future. Getting your children to go out and play is not some hippy notion; it is an essential component of their long-term health.

Vybarr Cregan-Reid is a reader in environmental humanities at the University of Kent. This article first appeared on The Conversation (theconversation.com)

====== 720 ========

CBEEBIES MAKATON EPISODE: BOY WITH HEART DEFECT HAS INCREDIBLE REACTION TO ROB DELANEY'S BEDTIME STORY

A mother has shared a video of her son who has a heart defect responding in an amazing way to Rob Delaney’s episode of CBeebies Bedtime Stories, during which the actor told a bedtime story using Makaton sign language.

Earlier this week, it was revealed that Delaney was to become the first person to tell a story on the TV show using Makaton, a form of sign language that involves signs, symbols and speech.

Delaney and his family used Makaton to communicate with his late son Henry, who underwent a tracheotomy after being diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2016.

The CBeebies Bedtime Stories episode featuring Delaney aired on Friday 16 November.

Laura McCartney, from Larbert in Scotland, watched the CBeebies episode with her son, six-year-old Tom.

Tom was born with a heart defect called tricuspid atresia, and as of July this year had undergone four heart operations, including two major open heart surgeries, McCartney explains in a post shared on Facebook.

In November 2013 Tom had to undergo a tracheotomy, and was diagnosed with hearing loss at the age of two.

McCartney's husband filmed Tom watching the CBeebies episode with his mother, capturing his son responding in excitement to Delaney’s use of Makaton as the Catastrophe star tells a bedtime story.

At one point in the video, Tom stares fixedly at the TV screen as he stands up in his Rifton activity chair, a chair designed for individuals with disabilities.

“@robdelaney @CBeebiesHQ thank you so much for the AMAZING bedtime story!” McCartney tweeted.

“My son Tom was so excited as you can see. He has never been interested in bedtime stories before … thank you for using his language.”

McCartney’s video has gone viral since being posted Friday evening, garnering almost 1,500 retweets and more than 19,000 likes.

It even caught the attention of Delaney himself, who commented underneath writing: “So beautiful. What a wonderful family you are.”

A number of people have been praising CBeebies for airing the episode, which is still available to watch on BBC iPlayer.

“I hope @CBeebiesHQ recognise the significance of what they did, and how they made thousands of kids (and adults) feel included and understood, lovely video,” one person tweeted in response to McCartney’s video.

“The pure excitement of someone speaking your language. Just wonderful,” another person wrote.

====== 721 ========

TRACEY THORN REVEALS ANXIETY IN EARLY STAGES OF CAREER HELPED EVERYTHING BUT THE GIRL ACHIEVE SUCCESS

Tracey Thorn has opened up about struggling with stage fright for years while performing as half of musical duo Everything but the Girl, revealing that her anxiety may have helped the band achieve success in the 1980s and 1990s.

Thorn was speaking with Lauren Laverne in the latest episode of BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs when the pair began discussing the mental health issues that she’s faced throughout her life.

When asked how she coped with the attention that came with the band’s success, Thorn explains that she often had conflicting feelings about it.

“Sometimes it was great and sometimes I did suffer lots of anxiety about it all, and feel like I wasn’t quite cut out to be doing this,” she says.

“I think when I was younger I found those sort of contrasts between things quite difficult. Now I’m older and I look back, I think that’s probably the whole reason you’ve been successful at all.”

She continues, elucidating how fans of the band, which comprised Thorn and her husband Ben Watt, were able to relate to the honesty of their music.

“What you’ve done is articulated what a lot of people feel, which is that we are all incredibly complicated,” she says.

“It’s all very well seeing people on stage who seem to have a sort of gilded life and be natural-born performers and loving every minute of it, but there’s equally something very connecting about seeing people performing who are struggling with it in some way, and whose writing seems to articulate some of the mixed feelings you have about things you have to do.

“So now I can see that it’s a point of connection with an audience.”

Thorn only realised in recent years that the stage fright that she experienced throughout her career had actually been a form of anxiety.

She finds it easier to talk about her mental health nowadays than she did in the past, thanks in part to the greater openness with which modern society addresses mental health issues.

“Stage fright is a form of anxiety, and I’ve been aware as I’ve got older that I suffer from a much more generalised anxiety than just stage fright, which has been part of my life for a long time,” she says.

“And I’ve dealt with it a lot better in recent years, having gone for a bit of therapy and in the light of people talking about it a bit more, been much more open about it, and that’s been great.”

Thorn's new album, Record, is out now.

====== 722 ========

FIVE THINGS TO CUT OUT OF YOUR DIET IF YOU WANT A BETTER NIGHT’S SLEEP

Nothing beats waking up from a good night’s sleep yet, for many of us, the idea of that happening seems like a dream.

Sleep deprivation can affect your memory, productivity and overall happiness, so it is essential that you are well-rested.

Eating earlier in the day, preparing light meals for dinner and altering your diet are just a few simple changes that could revolutionise your sleeping pattern.

Here are five foods and drinks worth avoiding to ensure you wake up feeling rejuvenated each day:

1. Caffeine

An obvious one – yet you still do it. A late-night beverage might seem like a pleasant idea at the time but as it is a stimulant it could be the reason you’re restless at night.

Caffeine blocks the sleep-inducing chemical adenosine for as many as six hours, preventing you from getting your daily recommended amount of sleep.

Dave Gibson, a sleep expert and founder of the Sleep Site, says that it is ideal to limit your daily caffeine consumption.

He advises: “Set a fixed caffeine curfew and cut out all caffeine after lunchtime. Have a maximum of two cups per day.”

2. Red meat

By the time you’ve left work, been food shopping and arrived home, it can be late in the evening before you get a chance to sit down for dinner.

Red meats take longer to digest than other foods so, if you know you will be eating late, opt for a lighter meal as this will make you more comfortable when it is time to rest.

Gibson suggests leaving four hours between a heavy meal and bed time.

If you feel peckish later on, experts at the Sleep Council recommend dairy products like yoghurt and milk and green vegetables such as cabbage, which are rich in stress-reducing calcium, helping you to relax before heading to bed.

3. Alcohol

A pint may be all you fancy after a long day at work, but really it could be the reason you found it so tiresome in the first place.

Once the stimulant effects of alcohol have waned, alcohol serves as a sedative – but not in a way that guarantees a good night’s rest.

Gibson says: “Alcohol negatively affects the balance of our REM sleep – the deep restorative sleep where our short-term memory is processed – particularly during the second half of the night. This means we are more likely to have disrupted sleep during this period.”

4. Spicy foods

Are you one for lathering on the spice, regardless of whether it’s necessary or not?

Lisa Artis, a Sleep Adviser for the Sleep Council, advises those with sleeping troubles to avoid eating spicy food as capsaicin, the spicy element in chilli peppers, could unsettle you.

Gibson warns that spicy foods can raise your body temperature, causing you discomfort.

5. Sugar

A late-night sweet treat may sound tempting, but foods with high sugar levels could give you an instant energy boost and delay your sleep.

Artis instead recommends wholegrain cereals with low sugar content to increase the availability of tryptophan in your bloodstream.

She explains, “Tryptophan is the amino acid that the body uses to make sleep-inducing serotonin and melatonin, the relaxing neurotransmitters that slow down nerve traffic and stop the brain buzzing.”

Bananas also contain tryptophan so serve well as a bedtime snack.

====== 723 ========

NATIONAL HIV TESTING WEEK: HOW IS PRINCE HARRY INVOLVED AND HOW CAN YOU GET TESTED?

Saturday November 17 marks the beginning of National HIV Testing Week, a campaign promoted by organisations including HIV Prevention England to encourage people across the nation to have regular tests for the condition.

Prince Harry has given the initiative his full support, discussing the stigma that still surrounds HIV in a video shared by Kensington Palace.

While rates of HIV diagnoses have declined in the UK in recent years, undergoing the simple procedure that tests for the condition is still essential.

So how did National HIV Testing Week start, what does an HIV test involve and how can you get tested?

Here’s everything you need to know:

When did National HIV Testing Week start?

The first National HIV Testing Week took place in 2012.

While the goal of the campaign is to raise awareness of and encourage HIV testing, the main aim of the week is to target those who are most at risk of contracting the virus, as Terrence Higgins Trust policy director Lisa Power explained.

“It’s aimed at gay men and African people, because those are the two groups of people with the highest rates of HIV here,” she wrote in a blog for HuffPost to mark the campaign’s launch.

“One gay man in 10 in London, and one in 20 in the country, has HIV. For people in Africa and living here, it’s about the same.

“That’s as high, or higher, than many of the countries which we think of as centres of the epidemic.”

Since the start of National HIV Testing Week six years ago, rates of HIV diagnoses in the country have been steadily declining.

From 2015 to 2016, the number of people being diagnosed with HIV dropped by 18 per cent, Terrence Higgins Trust reports.

As Prince Harry explains, the increased number of people who’ve been tested for HIV over the past few years has had a significant impact on this decline.

“New HIV diagnoses are declining in the UK. Over the past two years alone, they have dropped by an incredible 28 per cent nationally and us getting tested has helped play a major role in this shift,” he says.

What does an HIV test involve?

Individuals with HIV may not show symptoms for several years, which is why being tested is a wise course of action.

There are four main types of HIV test, as outlined by the NHS: a blood test, a point of care test, a home sampling kit and a home testing kit.

When a person undergoes an HIV blood test, they’ll have a sample of blood taken in a clinic, which will then be sent to a laboratory.

The results from a blood test will typically be available on the same day, or in a few days.

A point of care test involves a medical professional taking a sample of your saliva or a spot of blood from your finger, which is then tested in the clinic with results available within a matter of minutes.

When using a home sampling kit, you’ll collect a sample of saliva or a spot of blood from your finger at home, which you’ll then send off for testing.

With a home testing kit, you’ll carry out the same process by collecting a sample of saliva or a spot of blood from your finger, which you can then test at home yourself.

Where can you go for an HIV test?

Sexual health clinics or community testing sites will be able to provide you with an HIV test.

In order to find a clinic near you where you can take the test, visit aidsmap.com/hiv-test-finder and enter your location.

You can also ask your GP for an HIV test, Public Health England explains.

In some areas of the UK, people are eligible for free home HIV tests.

You can see whether a free home HIV test is available for you by entering your postcode at test.hiv.

If you’re not eligible for a free test, you can buy one online or from pharmacies such as Superdrug Online Doctor, which is selling a home HIV test for £30.

====== 724 ========

DUKE AND DUCHESS OF SUSSEX WILL MOVE OUT OF KENSINGTON PALACE AND INTO WINDSOR COTTAGE

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are moving out of Kensington Palace to set up a new home in the grounds of Windsor Castle in preparation for the birth of their first child, who is due in spring 2019.

The royal couple have lived in Nottingham Cottage since their engagement last year and will be moving to Frogmore Cottage in early 2019.

The 10-bedroom cottage overlooks Frogmore House, which is where the Duke and Duchess had their evening wedding reception in May.

“Windsor is a very special place for Their Royal Highnesses,” reads an official statement released by Kensington Palace, “and they are grateful that their official residence will be on the estate.

“The Duke and Duchess’s office will continue to be based at Kensington Palace.”

The couple’s new home is a Grade II-listed, two-storey countryside manor which is half a mile from Windsor Castle.

It was previously being used as staff accommodation and is set to undergo significant refurbishments ahead of the couple moving in.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will maintain their official residence with their three children at Kensington Palace, though their private home, Sandringham Estate, is also outside of London and is based in Norfolk.

====== 725 ========

DOLCE & GABBANA FOUNDERS APOLOGISE ‘TO CHINESE PEOPLE EVERYWHERE’ AFTER CHOPSTICKS RACISM ROW

The founders of Italian fashion label Dolce & Gabbana have apologised to fans in a video posted on Twitter after adverts released by the brand featuring an Asian model eating Italian food with chopsticks were labelled “racist” by critics.

The “DG Loves China” campaign was described as “offensive” and pandering to “false stereotypes”, which led to the cancellation of the brand’s upcoming fashion show in Shanghai and calls for a boycott.

Now, Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana have followed up an apologetic statement, which was published on Instagram on Thursday, with a short clip, in which the design duo have reiterated their remorse.

“Our families have always taught us to respect the various cultures of the world, and for this, we want to apologise if we have made mistakes in interpreting your culture,” said Dolce, speaking in Italian.

“We have always loved China; we have visited many cities ... and certainly we still have much to learn.”

In the subtitled video, Gabbana adds: “We offer our sincerest apologies to Chinese people worldwide.”

The designers explained that they have taken the backlash “very seriously” and reassured fans that nothing like this would ever happen again.

The controversies surrounding the ad campaign deepened when a number of screenshots began circulating online appearing to show Gabbana making further derogatory comments about Chinese people.

But the designer denied ever writing such comments, claiming that his account had “been hacked”, adding that his legal team was looking into resolving the issue.

Chinese retailers have reportedly responded to the controversies by removing D&G products from their websites.

The apology has garnered a mixed response on Twitter, with some fans expressing gratitude for their comments while others clearly remain unconvinced, citing past examples when the designers have made offensive remarks.

“I will never buy D&G again,” wrote one person. “Too much choice out there. Why wear a brand that is racist, rude and attacks young women online by demeaning their looks. Remember Stefano saying Selena Gomez was ‘ugly’ – D&G can go bust for all I care. Only ugly I see is coming from their mouths.”

Another added, “It’s too late, you’ve literally put yourself in a position where you’ve lost ‘face’ and this the the worst thing you could do.

“I think 1.4 billion people will never buy anything from you again. Go to a different market- you’ve lost this one @dolcegabbana”.

====== 726 ========

PETA FASHION AWARDS 2018: BURBERRY AND COACH AMONG WINNING FORWARD-THINKING BRANDS

PETA has announced the winners of its annual Fashion Awards, which celebrates the brands and events that have made major statements for animals this year.

The fashion industry has come under scrutiny in previous years from animal rights campaigners, who criticise labels that insist on using real fur.

But 2018 saw many luxury labels abandon the practice once and for all, including Coach, Burberry, Michael Kors and Diane von Furstenberg, who were all named as winners in PETA’s biggest luxury fashion moment category for their actions.

ASOS was named the most progressive online platform by PETA in light of its announcement that it will introduce a ban on mohair, silk, feathers and cashmere products on its site.

Elsewhere, PETA’s most progressive fashion event of the year was awarded to Helsinki Fashion Week for its decision to ban leather from its catwalks as of 2019.

On the high street, faux fur label Ecopel was honoured with the innovation award for using recycled plastic bottles to produce its garments.

"Vegan living is now the fastest-growing lifestyle across all developed economies, and consumers are looking to purchase clothes and accessories that are consistent with their values for both animals and the planet," says PETA Director Elisa Allen.

"The fashion industry is increasingly embracing vegan fabrics, and the days of treating sentient beings as raw materials are numbered."

Other winners included Dr Martens, which was awarded for its extensive range of vegan shoes on the best vegan boot collection category, and Veja, which received the best vegan shoe collection prize for its vegan leather and organic cotton collection.

Meanwhile, London-based label Felder Felder took home the collaboration award for partnering with sustainable fashion label Ecoalf to produce a capsule collection of coats made from recycled materials; outerwear brand Save the Duck was awarded best down-free label for its recycled coats free of animal fillers; and Alexandra K won in the best vegan bags category for its innovative accessories made from apple leather, a sustainable material made in Italy that integrates organic apple peels into the skin of the material.

Faux fur label Jakke won the best wool-free collection award for its new range of knitwear that proudly proclaims to be entirely free from wool.

PETA, whose motto includes the line “animals are not ours to wear” is currently campaigning for high street brand Forever 21 to stop selling garments made with wool, the production of which involves harmful practices that are hugely detrimental to sheep, the organisation claims.

Ahead of Black Friday, PETA supporters gathered outside the label’s Oxford Street store in central London holding placards saying “Never21” and “stop selling cruel wool,” urging shoppers to boycott the brand.

“PETA is calling on caring people to give sheep some peace on Earth this Christmas by choosing only wool-free, vegan apparel,” Allen adds.

See the full list of Fashion Awards winners on PETA's website here.

====== 727 ========

THE HIGH-TECH GROOMING GADGETS YOU NEED IN YOUR ROUTINE

From AI to electric cars, technology in 2018 is making everything faster, better and stronger, including our beauty routines.

Nowadays, gadget-free grooming is pretty much a thing of the past: innovative new tools allow us to cleanse our pores more deeply, style our locks without heat, and remove unwanted body hair without a trip to the beauty salon.

We roundup the best of the tech taking skin care and hair maintenance to the next level.

The trend for sonic skin care, which began in 2001 with the launch of Clarisonic’s cleansing system, has grown and grown.

Newer versions like the Mia Smart cleanse the skin up to six times better than hands alone, delivering a cooling and firming massage into the bargain. And it can even help you apply your makeup.

Other brands, such as Foreo have also launched smart-skin devices: their new Luna Fofo reads your skin’s hydration levels and suggests an appropriate cleansing routine.

And then there’s the Foreo UFO, a clever tool that transforms sheet-masking from a 20-minute fuss to a 90-second breeze.

Styling our hair has never been easier, or less harmful. Dyson has followed its best-selling Supersonic Hairdryer with the Airwrap – a heat-free styling tool that uses aerospace technology to create a spinning vortex of air for effortless bouncy waves.

Similarly, GHD has improved on its signature straighteners with the introduction of its new Platinum+ Styler.

It recognises the thickness of your hair and heats it accordingly. The result? Hair that's shinier and stronger than ever before.

If you’re more interested in removing hair than styling it, a device that means you can deliver the beauty treatment from the comfort of your own home should be at the top of your list.

For this, we recommend Philips’ Lumea Prestige. A leading product in at-home IPL hair removal, it comes with a hefty price tag of £299 but, when you consider this will no longer mean having to attend costly in-salon sessions, it’s well worth the splurge.

Of course, beauty gadgets aren’t just for women. The male grooming industry is also awash with innovation.

For guys who want to take extra care of their skin, Foreo has launched a version of its Luna cleanser specifically for men.

Similarly, shavers have come a long way since the early days. Panasonic’s Wet & Dry Beard Trimmer will give your facial fuzz a superior cut.

Designed with new, narrow blade tips, it captures more hair at once, including curly or flat lying whiskers, and offers the highest speed in Panasonic history.

====== 728 ========

FROM CELINE TO COMIC SANS: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT FASHION MONTH SS19

As the curtain closes on yet another Fashion Month, it’s time to look back on the biggest trends and most talked-about moments of the season.

But, keeping up with everything that happened over an entire month, in four different cities and across hundreds of shows can be tricky.

Luckily, we’ve rounded up everything you need to know about what happened during New York, London, Milan and Paris for the ultimate Fashion Month cheat sheet.

Diversity is on the rise

The fashion industry is often called-out for its lack of diversity with runways traditionally seen as a parade of physical and racial homogeneity.

However, this season designer’s showed that change is finally upon us. In New York, Claudia Li’s show featured an all-Asian cast for the very first time, while Rihanna’s Savage x Fenty received widespread praise for its line-up of women of all shapes, sizes and ethnicities, including pregnant Slick Woods.

Similarly in London, Alice Temperley cast women of all ages, including her own mother, while in Milan Dolce & Gabbana called upon the likes of Ashley Graham, Eva Herzigova, Isabella Rossellini and Carla Bruni to grace its catwalk.

The diversity continued at Versace and L’Oreal too. At the former, 44-year-old Shalom Harlow closed the show, while everyone from Duckie Thot to Winnie Harlow and Doutzen Kroes joined L’Oreal’s A-list army of models.

Fashion fans slate Hedi Slimane’s Celine

Hedi Slimane’s debut collection for Celine caused a furore among fashion fans who labelled it “narcissistic”, “tone-deaf” and a “big f*** you to women.”

Loyal followers of the brand’s previous creative director, Phoebe Philo, were shocked to see that Slimane had replaced his predecessors minimalist aesthetic with his own signature stamp of sexed-up, rock-and-roll-inspired garb.

While some criticised Slimane for replicating looks he created at Saint Laurent, others took issue with the show’s casting which was dominated by thin, white models. In fact, 87 of the 96 models were white, and it was a third of the way through the show before viewers even saw the first model of colour.

Comic Sans is cool again

Us fashion folk are used to seeing bygone trends rear their once-ugly heads only to become the next big thing but, Comic Sans, really?

For spring/summer 2019, Balenciaga presented a show centred around technology’s impact on society with an immersive tunnel-style set, ominous soundtrack and clothes covered in Clip Art effects.

But the real showstopper was its closing ensemble which came emblazoned with the Balenciaga logo reimagined in dozens of different Microsoft Word fonts, including Comic Sans – the joke of the typography world.

Once universally loathed, the san serif font of yesteryear is officially en Vogue.

Life’s a beach at Chanel

We’ve come to expect a show-stopping catwalk setting from Karl Lagerfeld, and on the final day of Paris Fashion Week, this season was no different.

While previous years have seen the designer transform the runway into everything from an enchanted forest to a space station, this time Lagerfeld recreated a beach that included an ocean with gentle waves, brilliant blue sky and lifeguards.

As the sound of seagulls signalled the start of the show, models dipped their toes in the sand sporting swimsuits, sun hats and bags shaped like beach balls.

The new fashion guard

From Millie Bobby Brown and Noah Schnapp from Stranger Things sitting on the front row at Calvin Klein to Kaia Gerber, Anwar Hadid and Lourdes Leon making an appearance on the runway, the new fashion guard dominated this fashion month.

Lourdes Leon, the daughter of Madonna, made her modelling debut for Gypsy Sport wearing a shell body-chain bra draped around her body, while Bella and Gig Hadid’s younger brother, Anwar, joined them at the Prabal Gurung show.

====== 729 ========

HOT OFF THE CATWALK: LONDON FASHION WEEK 2018'S HOTTEST TRENDS ARE ANIMAL PRINT, TAXI-CAB YELLOW AND STRIPES – AND THEY'RE PERFECT FOR THE HOME

or register with your social account

Email cannot be used. Try another

London Fashion Week 2018 not only saw Victoria Beckham busting moves to the Spice Girls at her Vogue party, but it also showcased some hot new trends.

Hailed as one of the most diverse fashion weeks ever, it leaves behind an array of inspiring ideas hot off the spring/summer 2019 catwalks.

Keep one step ahead of the interiors pack and update your home with these four interiors-friendly fashion trends that will be filling your wardrobe next year.

MONOCHROME

Making her LFW debut, former T4 presenter Alexa Chung stepped out after showcasing her first show "Arrivals and Departures" in chic monochrome.

Monochrome: Alexa Chung's curain call ( AFP /Getty Images)

She wasn't the only one who was inspired by black and white.

Victoria Beckham also opted for the classic look in her first LFW catwalk designs.

Mixed textures helped to bring the combination up to date.

Monochrome: also spotted at Victoria Beckham ( WWD /REX)

One of the most simple ways to update your kitchen is to invest in some new dinnerware.

Available in store only, Tesco has released a new monochrome set, starting from just 90p, inspired by Scandinavia.

Alternatively, Danish brand Design Letters offer a range of black and white initial mugs, starting from £14.50.

ANIMAL

The British Fashion Council vowed to be one of the first of the big four fashion weeks to be complete fur-free and they kept to their promise.

With real fur out of the equation, designers introduced cruelty-free animal prints to spice up their designs.

Fur-free leopard print: as seen at Burberry (Rex Features)

Burberry's new Chief Creative Director Riccardo Tisci showed off vibrant leopard print alongside the brand's signature checked print.

But how can you introduce this wild print into your home?

Dip your foot into the trend with this leopard print lampshade with neon orange lining, priced £40, from Love Frankie.

STRIPES

Irish-born Richard Malone kicked off the LFW festivities with his colourful show.

Stripes: Richard Malone ( AFP /Getty Images)

Making an effort to use sustainable fabrics, Malone moved away from conventional stripes and instead opted for a variety of directions with them intersecting and blurring into each other.

Made from a hand-spun wool/cotton combination, this orange and navy rug from Habitat, priced at £250, is perfect for adding a splash of colour to the living room.

TAXI-CAB YELLOW

From the front row to the catwalk, taxi-cab yellow is everywhere.

Eco design duo Vin + Omi used the sunshine shade in their new collection, made from thread spun from melted-down single-use plastic bottles.

Create a statement on a neutral wall with a yellow cast-iron radiator, starting from £408, from Bisque.

Scroll through our gallery above to see how to get ahead of the interiors pack...

====== 730 ========

LIFESTYLE BAROMETER: YOUR GUIDE TO WHAT'S HOT AND WHAT'S NOT THIS WEEK FROM LONDON FASHION WEEK TO FROSÉ

Going up:

London Fashion Week

This week saw press buyers, trend forecasters and influencers flock to London for its biannual celebration of British fashion. This season, the five-day event saw more than 80 designers put on 54 catwalk shows, 26 presentations and over 20 events with attendees travelling from more than 50 countries.

It was also a season of firsts, with the British Fashion Council announcing that none of the designers on the official schedule would be using animal fur, while Riccardo Tisci​ presented his debut collection for heritage brand Burberry.

Diversity on the catwalks also continued with Alice Temperley casting her own mother while another show even saw a model walk the runway while using a breastpump.

Chrissy Teigen

Presenter and model Chrissy Teigen had the perfect response to someone who asked if she was “pregnant again” while attending the Emmy Awards in Los Angeles this week.

Just four months ago, Teigen gave birth to her second child, Miles, with her husband John Legend and stepped out on Monday to the special event wearing a luxurious Zuhair Murad dress.

As photos began to circulate of the couple online, one man took it upon himself to share his opinion on her body on Twitter, writing: “I’m asking this with the utmost respectful, but is Chrissy Teigen pregnant again?”

Teigen, 32, responded by quoting his tweet and writing: “I just had a baby but thank you for being soooo respectful.”

Subsequently, the new mother received a barrage of support from followers for her response.

Mayochup

For years, fans have been mixing two of their favourite condiments to create DIY versions of fry sauce or Thousand Island dressing but now Heinz has created its very own, readymade hybrid.

Aptly named “Mayochup”, the sauce was first revealed in April, when Heinz released it in the Middle East. However, after a successful launch, the company has now revealed that it will be bringing the hybrid to the US.

On Twitter, Heinz shared the news, writing: “#Mayochup is here”, before revealing the “saucy cities” that tweet the name of the new condiment the most will be among the first to try the pastel-hued sauce – with a side of fries.

Model diversity

An 11-year-old boy with autism who was banned from taking part in school plays due to his disruptive behaviour is now a model for H&M.

Alfie Aldridge was also barred from having his picture taken at school as his disability means he struggles to cooperate with large groups of people.

However, after being picked up by Zebedee Management, an agency that specialises in models with disabilities, the youngster has discovered his real passion.

Now, in addition to his work for H&M, Alfie is modelling for big brands like River Island and Land Rover and hopes to continue to pursue a career in the industry as an adult.

Going down:

Germaine Greer

Australian writer Germaine Greer has been criticised on social media for comments that likened the trauma felt by rape victims to her fear of spiders.

While appearing on Australia’s ABC Q&A programme on Monday, Greer was asked to explain previous comments she made about rape not involving injury before being asked to clarify whether being raped when she was 19 did or didn’t traumatise her.

“Trauma is something that is dictated by the sufferer,” she said. “I can’t bear huntsman spiders. It’s not their fault. It’s my fault. I’ve decided to be frightened of them.

“It’s interesting to me that women are encouraged all the time to be terribly, terribly frightened, and nearly always of the wrong thing.”

A large number of viewers quickly took to Twitter to express their outrage at Greer’s comments.

“Has she lost the plot completely or is she just courting controversy?” one person wrote.

Frosé

The cooler, sweeter and slushier alternative to rosé wine, frosé dominated drinks menus throughout the summer but according to The Wall Street Journal, the once-popular frozen beverage could be on its way out.

The publication reported that “a number of prominent drinking spots throughout the city say that their frosé sales declined dramatically this summer over last”.

Bar Primi, located in New York City’s East Village, is just one establishment that’s seen the shift, with managing partner Justin Sievers revealing that the bar has seen a 30 per cent decline in sales this summer.

But don’t just take their word for it. In April, Tatler wrote on its list of 2018’s hottest, and not, drinks: “It should be noted that frosé (frozen rosé) was only ever ‘in’ for those four days it was above 25 degrees in June 2017.”

Orla Kiely

It’s been a sad week for print-lovers with Irish designer Orla Kiely announcing the liquidation of her eponymous brand.

Renowned for its quirky floral and graphic motifs, the 1970’s-inspired label has garnered a growing list of fans since its launch in the 1990s.

However, as of Monday 17 September, the fashion company ceased trading and closed all of its stores.

The company apologised for any inconvenience caused and in a statement on the now defunct website said: “Thank you for embracing our brand and designs throughout the years and for your ongoing support.”

Slimming World

Panic ensued among Slimming World users this week as the company announced that Muller Light yoghurts would no longer be considered “free” to eat on the plan.

Dieters following the company’s healthy eating plan are permitted to eat a maximum of 15 “syns” a day – which tend to be “treat” foods and alcohol – alongside “free foods” like fruit vegetables, eggs, grains and low-fat dairy products.

But, while a 175g pot of Muller Light has previously been considered a Free Food by Slimming World, the brand has now made the decision to chalk it up as one syn on the points.

Slimming World attendees around the country were shocked at the announcement with many taking to social media to share their disdain.

“Muller Lights are no longer free on Slimming World. Forget Brexit. This is the real crisis of our generation,” one person wrote.

Confusing fashion

The fashion industry provides us with a heap of fresh and innovative styling ideas, but, for many, some of its inventions can be a step too far.

Case in point: a pair of trainers that have been lambasted on social media for “mocking poverty”.

The Golden Goose shoes, which are on sale for $530 (£400), have caused a backlash on Twitter due to the aged design of the shoes, which appear battered and have duct tape over the toes. While some said the item “glorified poverty”, others branded them “stupid”.

However, this isn’t the first time a brand has come under fire for missing the mark. Earlier this week, high-end fashion brand Gucci was also criticised for selling a $381 (£290) swimsuit that, while seriously on trend, can’t actually be worn in a swimming pool.

====== 731 ========

NEW YORK FASHION WEEK: MODEL CONFIRMS SHE GAVE BIRTH JUST 14 HOURS AFTER WALKING IN RIHANNA'S FENTY SHOW

A model has confirmed that she gave birth to a baby boy just hours after appearing in Rihanna’s Savage x Fenty lingerie runway show at New York Fashion Week.

Slick Woods, born Simone Thompson, is a 22-year-old model from Minnesota who’s modelled for Vogue, Calvin Klein and Marc Jacobs.

Earlier this week, Woods appeared on the catwalk for Rihanna’s new Savage x Fenty lingerie collection, alongside a diverse array of models that included Gigi and Bella Hadid, Duckie Thot and Joan Smalls.

In July this year, Woods revealed on Instagram that she was expecting her first child with fellow model Adonis Bosso.

She’s now informed her 728,000 Instagram followers that she gave birth to a baby boy… 14 hours after strutting her stuff on the catwalk in heels and lingerie.

“A lewk, 14 hours of labour, and a king is born,” she wrote on Instagram.

“This is the face of a WOMAN IN LABOUR, we hold s**t down most of us don’t even know how much we’re going through.”

Many people have been sending their congratulations to the model in the comments, including fellow models Jourdan Dunn and Leomie Anderson.

“WOW! This is ICONIC!!!!” Dunn wrote. “Welcome to motherhood my love.”

The official Instagram account for the Savage x Fenty lingerie collection also left a comment, which read: “YESSSS!! Things you did: THAT!”

Woods’ appearance in the runway show was highly praised on social media, with several people expressing their admiration for Rihanna’s decision to feature heavily pregnant models.

“I don’t think I’ve ever seen another lingerie collection use very visibly pregnant models before! This fashion show is diverse in so many different ways,” one person wrote on Twitter.

“You were in labour at this time and looked like the unfazed goddess that you are! Congratulations on everything!” another person tweeted.

====== 732 ========

SUPERMODEL LILY ALDRIDGE WALKS BRANDON MAXWELL'S RUNWAY SHOW WHILE FIVE MONTHS PREGNANT

In recent years the fashion industry has seen a surge in diversity, showcasing models of all ages, genders, and sizes on the runway.

And, while it’s no secret that fashion month still has a long way to go, one designer has taken the concept a step further by adding a pregnant woman into the mix.

This weekend, Brandon Maxwell’s spring/summer 2019 show was populated by a throng of characteristically tall and slender models including Gigi Hadid, Joan Smalls, Cindy Bruna and Bella Hadid.

Amongst them, Victoria’s Secret Angel Lily Aldridge also made an appearance. However, the supermodel struck a different kind of silhouette with the addition of a baby bump.

At five months pregnant, Aldridge stormed the runway wearing a pair of stiletto heels and a figure-hugging red dress that visibly showed off her stomach.

Thrilled at having the chance to take part in the show while pregnant, the model thanked Maxwell on Instagram writing: “So proud to walk the @brandonmaxwell runway 5 months pregnant!

“I’ve walked few runways in my life and this is a moment that I’ll look back on forever with great emotion. Thank you Brandon for letting me shine and being such a true gentleman, Love you forever!!!”

Aldridge finished her post by sending her love to all the other models who were cast in the show, especially those that embraced her baby bump.

“It was so much fun being backstage will all the girls,” she added.

“Everyone was so uplifting and rubbing my belly celebrating this beautiful journey with me. Nothing but empowerment at Brandon Maxwell.”

Of course, this isn’t the first time a pregnant model has appeared on a fashion week runway.

In fact, it isn’t even the first time Aldridge has walked a show while expecting.

After announcing her first pregnancy in December 2011, savvy fashion fans figured out that the supermodel would have already been two months pregnant when she walked in the Victoria’s Secret show a month earlier alongside Alessandra Ambrosio, who was also expecting.

And the trend for embracing motherhood doesn’t stop there. Most recently, Saks Potts Spring Summer 2019 show during Copenhagen Fashion Week, featured a glowing pregnant model strutting down the runway.

Similarly, heavily pregnant model and artist Maia Ruth Lee was just one month away from her due date when she featured in Eckhaus Latta’s spring/summer 2018 show.

The ever-growing list of expectant mothers-cum-models also includes Jacquetta Wheeler in the autumn/winter 2015 Temperley show, Bianca Balti in the autumn/winter 2015 Dolce & Gabbana show, Jourdan Dunn in the spring/summer 2010 Jean Paul Gaultier show, and supermodel Slick Woods who recently posed for the September cover of Elle UK.

====== 733 ========

EIGHT OF THE BEST ARCTIC ADVENTURES, FROM BUILDING SNOW SHELTERS TO SURFING IN THE ARCTIC CIRCLE

Resist the temptation to go into hibernation this winter and sign up for an adrenaline-boosting Arctic adventure instead.

Here are eight of the best.

Sign up for a survival course in the Finnish wilderness

The Arctic Circle conjures up images of rosy-nosed reindeers and gift-laden elves, but it’s also got a dark side – and we’re not talking about the potential over exploitation of Santa’s workforce, either, but bone-chilling temperatures, wild animals and, during the winter, endless hours of darkness. To learn how to conquer this challenging wilderness, sign up for a survival course in Finnish Lapland’s Pyhä-Luosto national park – you’ll learn about the psychology of survival, how to cook Rudolph – sorry, reindeer – over an open fire and how to build a snow shelter, which you’ll then sleep in.

From £266pp for a day/night workshop

Kiss a wolf in Norway

Spend the night at the Wolf Lodge, part of northern Norway’s Polar Park. This cosy chalet is inside a huge enclosure which is home to a pack of semi-wild wolves, so don’t be surprised to find them peering through the floor-to-ceiling windows at night. Come morning, you’ll be able to experience a more intimate encounter with these fearsome predators. Your guide will lead you outside into the snowy enclosure where he’ll summon the wolves with a howl or two, giving you the opportunity to experience a “wolf kiss”. Breath mints not included.

Wolf visits from £281pp

Join a northern lights photography workshop

Photographing the northern lights is a complicated business and if you don’t know your ISO from your aperture, increase your chances of snapping nature’s most spectacular light show with a photography-themed exploration of Finland’s Riisitunturi national park. It’s a great way to discover one of the country’s most beautiful areas, too – to get the perfect shot, you’ll have to hike up rugged fells and battle through snowdrifts before restoring energy levels with delicious, traditional Finnish fare, cooked over a camp fire.

From £641pp

Say hello to Santa in Rovaniemi, Finland

Every year more than 500,000 people visit Father Christmas at his home on the outskirts of Rovaniemi, Finland; and since 1985, he’s received more than 15 million letters at Santa Claus Village. The bearded one seems to be a bit of an entrepreneur, offering visitors the chance to sign up for lessons at elf school or for husky and reindeer rides, before bedding down in an igloo hotel. If you visit, don’t forget to walk across the official line marking the beginning of the Arctic Circle. The village straddles the border and you’ll be able to request a certificate confirming your entry. There are three-night packages that include airport transfers and a host of activities, such as an Arctic Circle crossing ceremony; 3km reindeer or 5km husky safaris; an Arctic animal wildlife park day trip; a private meting with Santa; and a northern lights safari.

From £864 per adult and £608 per child (aged 2-14 years), full board

Admire the aurora borealis in the Yukon, Canada

Most people head to Norway, Sweden or Finland for the northern lights, but in the remote Yukon, in north-west Canada, the chances of a stray selfie stick ruining your carefully planned photo are slim to none. On Arctic Range’s day-long aurora borealis viewing tours you’ll admire the dancing lights from a dedicated viewing platform while learning about the chemical light reactions which create them, and the First Nation legends they’ve inspired.

From £75pp

Sleep in the original ice hotel, in Sweden

The original ice hotel can be found near Kiruna, Sweden, and this year will fling open its doors on 14 December. The themes are yet to be revealed, although it’s been confirmed guests will be able to sleep with the – frozen – fishes in an ice suite inspired by an aquarium, with another ice suite to resemble a sweet shop. Some 33 artists from 13 countries will help design this year’s hotel and guests will be able to sign up for a chef’s table experience, during which they’ll enjoy delicious cuisine presented on plates made from ice.

From £1,117pp for a three-night package, B&B, including flights

Sail across the Arctic Circle

Don’t make the mistake of confusing Hurtigruten with your typical cruise line. Those who set sail on its 12-day Classic Round Voyage along Norway’s coastline and into the Arctic Circle, opt for Berghaus over ball gowns. There’s no standing on ceremony either, especially during northern lights season – October to March – proof of which is the in-room alarm system which announces the lights’ appearance – don’t be surprised to find a stampede of pyjama-clad, camera-wielding passengers making a dash for the top deck. You can add a wide range of excursions too, including snowmobile tours, husky rides and mountain hikes.

From £986pp, excluding flights

Surf inside the Arctic Circle in Norway

Surf the Arctic Circle and you’ll have the waves to yourself with the chances of sand migrating to your nether regions pretty slim, too – mainly because the freezing temperatures make dry suits compulsory. In the 1960s, Thor Frantzen and Hans Egil Krane surfed Norway’s waves for the first time – on homemade boards, built using the shape of the ones they’d seen on a Beach Boys album as a guide. They set up a camping and surfboard rental business which was later taken over by Frantzen’s daughter and turned into a surf school. Today, lessons take place 365 days a year at Unstad Arctic Surf – the world’s northernmost surf school – although the most spectacular time of year is undoubtedly winter, when adrenaline junkies can hang ten beneath the northern lights.

One-hour lessons from £149pp

====== 734 ========

BEST BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY UK CONSOLE DEALS 2018: PS4, XBOX ONE, NINTENDO SWITCH AND MORE

There are bags of Black Friday and Cyber Monday console bargains to be had, but whether you're shopping for yourself or a loved one, it can be difficult to decide which one to go for, be it a PlayStation 4, Xbox One, or a Nintendo Switch.

Luckily, we’ll constantly updating the best discounts and deals in the run up to the big event to make your decision easier.

PS4 Slim

Slimmer, lighter and less expensive than the PS4 Pro, the PS4 Slim is the most popular iteration of the family of consoles and is available with 500GB or 1TB storage and with four colour choices; jet black, glacier white, gold and silver.

Console deals

PS4 Slim 500GB Console – Low price: £219.99, Argos

PS4 Slim 500GB Console – Low price: £263.98, Amazon

PS4 Slim 1TB Console – Low price: £269.95, John Lewis

Bundle package deals

Marvel’s Spider-Man 500GB PS4 Bundle – was £299.99, now £249.99, Very

PS4 Slim 500GB with Fifa Bundle – Low price: £219, AO

PS4 Slim 1TB Console with God of War Bundle – was £359.99, now £269.99, Very

Game deals

Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 Specialist Edition – Low price: £37.99, Game

Doom – Low price: £9.99, Currys

Fallout 76 – Low price: £44.99, Game

Far Cry 5 Limited Edition – was £45.99, now £24.99, Amazon

FIFA 19 – was £48.53, now £34, Amazon

FIFA 19 – was £48.53, now £34, Amazon

FIFA 19 – was £49.99, now £37.99, Currys

Grand Theft Auto V – Low price: £20, AO

Horizon Zero Dawn – was £44.99, now £24.99, Amazon

Marvel’s Spider-Man – was £44.99, now £28.99, Amazon

Pro Evolution Soccer 2019 – Low price: £28.97, Amazon

Red Dead Redemption 2 – Low price: £49.99, Amazon

Shadow of the Tomb Raider – was £44.99, now £24, Amazon

Accessory deals

Sony Camera V2 – Low price: £39.99, Currys

Sony PlayStation DualShock 4 Charging Station – Low price: £29, Amazon

Sony PlayStation DualShock 4 Controller – Low price: £29.95, Amazon

