In those cases TSB agreed to refund anyone left out of pocket, however, with any bank it’s essential to keep a clear note and evidence of any extra costs and you will need to prove you’re out of pocket in order to claim.

One important note – if a banking outage means that you miss a payment then it’s really vital to check your credit score shortly afterwards. Missed bills can leave a mark on your credit file but you can contact the credit agencies and let them know what went wrong, meaning they can fix your score.

Failing to do so might mean you end up being charged more for credit the next time you apply for a loan, credit card or mortgage, and that would be hard to prove to the bank in a fight for compensation.

If your wages are late, your boss needs to deal with it

When a business account is hit by an outage, there may be a knock-on effect on their employees. If wages are delayed then employees need to raise their difficulties with their employer who can then challenge the bank.

After all, only the business has a relationship with the bank – the costs they reclaim can include any costs their employees reclaim from them.

When it’s significant

If a banking outage hits on a day when you just absolutely needed access to your money it can have devastating consequences.

Perhaps you needed to make a payment for something emotionally powerful like a wedding dress. Perhaps you needed to complete on a house purchase with funds held in your account. Perhaps you were on holiday and needed spending money.

For such serious and highly emotional claims, it can be hard to demand the full amount back from your bank. They may be able to reimburse additional solicitors’ fees but they are very unlikely to reimburse a customer for the cost of a house move, and quite unlikely to pay for the inconvenience of being without cash on a break, or the heartache of not getting a wedding dress made on time.

The best thing to do in those situations is to keep a careful track of any specific costs you can directly show are the result of the outage and take your claim promptly to the bank.

According to the Financial Ombudsman, customers can claim for specific losses they incur due to a bank’s technical problems but claims depend on the specific circumstances. You can find details on making complaints here.

You always have the right to switch

In the week following the TSB banking chaos back in the spring, the comparison site GoCompare saw a 100 per cent increase in the number of people using its current account comparison service.

Georgie Frost, consumer advocate at GoCompare, commented then: “If you’re unhappy with your bank, or looking to get more from your money, switching current accounts is easier and quicker than you might think. You could even get a ‘golden hello’ with some banks offering some worthwhile incentives for those that make the leap…

“It shouldn’t just be all about the switching bonus though. You could also benefit from a higher rate of interest on your balance or a free authorised overdraft, depending on how you tend to use your account.

“As the TSB situation has shown, good customer service goes a very long way. Research what other customers have said. You should also consider how you plan to interact with your new bank – do you need a bank with a branch close by or just a great mobile app service. Either way, make sure the account is right for you.”

The traditional high street banks and brands face a great deal of competition from new fintech companies and challenger banks. Perhaps the biggest challenge they face, and the one that could lose them the most customers, is upgrading old systems without causing difficulties for account holders. Doing so costs more than money, it risks losing goodwill too.

====== 843 ========

FIRST 16-YEAR-OLDS TO BENEFIT FROM CHILD TRUST FUNDS COME OF AGE – IF THE GOVERNMENT CAN FIND THEM

Alongside the 16th birthday cards and heartfelt gifts, the first of six million children will today start to gain control of a savings account few of them will even realise exists.

The now defunct child trust fund (CTF) was the centrepiece of Gordon Brown’s plan to encourage asset-based welfare, when he was chancellor.

Launched in 2005, the idea was to establish a savings habit among children, providing a cushion of financial assets as they embarked on adult life – giving them greater confidence in their financial knowledge, skills and ability to manage their money.

It was an ambitious plan – more than six million young people now own these largely government-funded accounts. When the coalition government stopped contributing in 2011, replacing the scheme with the Junior Isa, the accounts already open remained active and their values continued to increase thanks to stock market growth and, sometimes, family contributions.

Every child born between the 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011 was eligible for a CTF.

Though few families paid into these accounts, any payments they did make originally maxed out at £1,200 per annum and have since risen to £4,260 by this tax year. That means some funds could be worth at least £50,000 by the time the child reaches 18.

It sounds great and what 16-year-old wouldn’t want to suddenly find they can now manage (if not actually access until they turn 18) a generous pot of cash.

But there’s a problem. Actually, there are two.

Financial education is now included in the curriculum, but there are huge holes in our knowledge that such a useful sum could easily disappear into.

“Although 16-year-olds with these child trust funds won’t be able to access the money until they turn 18, they will take over responsibility for the account,” says Sarah Phillips, a tax partner at Irwin Mitchell Private Wealth. “They’ll have a choice ... to keep it in the same account or change to a different one, as well as decide on a different investment strategy if they so wish.”

She adds: “Some of the larger trust funds will be in the tens of thousands and could make a huge difference to a young adult’s life by providing the means for a house deposit, money to start their own business or to be put towards higher education – but for many parents the worry will be that their child will fritter away the fund as their first taste of freedom.”

Phillips says an easy and relatively failsafe option would be to see if the child wants to put the trust fund into a tax-free junior ISA so that it turns into an adult ISA when they turn 18, “but proper advice should always be sought.”

“It’s worth teaching your children the right way to invest so they are armed with the best knowledge available to them – the child who fritters away their child trust fund may find future assets being looked after in trust for them rather than passed to them outright.”

But this all assumes each child knows about and gets hold of what’s rightfully theirs.

Like savings, pensions, investments and a range of other financial benefits owned by Britons of all ages and financial means, a million CTF accounts have been lost. More accurately, the government has lost track of their owners.

Sixteen years is a long time and swathes of people have inevitably moved home since then.

But uptake of the CTF account by parents – and the offer of at least £250 of free money for their children (£500 for lower income families) – was woeful.

In the end around 1.75 million accounts were originally opened by HM Revenue and Customs itself because parents and guardians hadn’t done so within the first year of a child being born. “In the case of families in receipt of Child Tax Credit, virtually all accounts were opened by HMRC,” the Share Centre reports.

“For the most disadvantaged young people that’s around 440,000 lost accounts now worth nearly £0.75 billion, including over £400m from government contributions.”

The government offers advice and links to help find lost CTFs here.

====== 844 ========

PARENTS ‘SACRIFICING’ LIVING STANDARDS TO SUPPORT CHILDREN AT ‘ALARMING’ LEVELS

Parents will do a lot for their children. They’ll sacrifice sleep, sanity and cash. A great deal of cash.

Just covering the basics comes in at around £232,000, including providing a roof over their heads, clothing, feeding, keeping them warm and safe, transport and school-related costs. Research out this week adds another £5,500 simply for covering “children’s blunders” – anything from kicking a football through a neighbour’s window and ruining uniforms to missing flights.

There’s also the 52 per cent of parents who help run their children’s car every year, subsidising children aged 17-24 to the tune of £760 each.

But these trickling costs pale in comparison to the big lump sums involved in getting our offspring onto the housing ladder.

The amounts involved aren’t a surprise. The average deposit contribution is £18,000. It’s a massive amount to hand over in one go and a quarter of parents in their mid-fifties to mid-sixties are sacrificing their own standard of living to pay for it, according to a study by the Centre for Economics and Business Research and Legal & General.

More than 70,000 property transactions this year will be funded by parents raising their pension pots or using their annuity income.

Another 44,000 will release equity from their home and a fifth of parents stumping up cash for their kids’ deposit will downsize their own home to do it.

Help in other ways

“Parents don’t want their children to struggle, so when they face the monumental task of saving up for a home of their own, it’s only natural to feel compelled to help. It’s why more than one in four of all first homes are bought with at least some cash provided by parents,” says Sarah Coles, personal finance analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.

“Few people can spare £18,000 without having a significant impact on their own finances, so we’re seeing alarming numbers of parents sacrificing their own standard of living or postponing retirement as a result.”

But handing over an enormous lump sum isn’t your only option: there are alternative ways to help your offspring onto the housing ladder,” she adds, suggesting four alternatives:

Be a guarantor on their mortgage

If your child can’t pay the mortgage, this means you’re guaranteeing that you’ll step in. The stakes can be very high here, because not only could your offspring lose their home if neither of you can pay the mortgage but if you have used your own home as part of the guarantee, you could lose that too. It means you’ll need to have plans in place for how you would meet the costs if you had to.

Look for a specialist mortgage

Lenders have realised there’s a market for family mortgages, so they’ve designed products to cash in. You can, for example, get a mortgage where a parent provides a 10 per cent deposit as a loan. If the young adult makes all the remortgage payments in full and in time for the first three years, their parents get the loan back in full – with interest.

Alternatively you can use a family offset mortgage, which allows other family members to put savings into an account that’s linked to the mortgage. The savings are offset against the loan, which can be used either to reduce interest payments or shorten the length of the loan. This offers more flexibility for parents, and doesn’t leave them open to a liability if their offspring can’t pay the mortgage.

Buy with your child

You can make a lump sum investment in a property, and buy with your offspring. If you buy as tenants in common, you don’t have to own the property 50:50 – it can reflect what you’re both putting in. You will also have the freedom to leave your share of the property to anyone you want in your will.

There will be tax implications if you own your own home because you will have to pay the 3 per cent stamp duty surcharge on second properties. When you come to sell you will also face capital gains tax on the portion of the property you own as a second property.

You also need to consider the practicalities, and what would happen if they can’t afford mortgage payments on their share of the property, if they want to move house, or if you need to get your money back. If you take this approach, it’s a good idea to get a lawyer to draw up a deed of trust, so it’s clear where you stand.

Let them move back in

If your child is struggling to build a deposit while they rent, you can offer them opportunity to move back in and save their rent money instead. Encourage them to open a Lifetime ISA to redirect rental payments into.

They can pay in £4,000 a year, and the government will top it up to £5,000. If they are buying with a partner or friend, this takes them to 5 per cent of the average price of a first home in a year, so they can use the Help to Buy equity loan scheme from the government to cover the rest, and move out for good.

====== 845 ========

WONGA LATEST: WHY THE COLLAPSE OF THE PAYDAY LOANS COMPANY WON'T MAKE ITS CUSTOMERS DEBT FREE

It has been a long and drawn-out week of demise for controversial payday lender Wonga.

News that the business was lining up potential administrators as it buckled under the weight of legacy loan claims came last weekend, but it wasn’t until this evening, hours after the lender stopped offering new loans, that those administrators were finally summoned.

Wonga’s failure has prompted delighted jokes about tiny violins on Twitter as well as some genuine concern that more borrowers could be forced into the clutches of loan sharks if a major provider of legitimate credit goes under.

For those repaying debts to the company there’s another question: what will happen to their loans?

With market conditions leading to major shifts on our high streets and within financial services, it’s an important question for anyone holding credit or repaying debt to a company.

What happens when a loan business goes bust?

Wonga’s collapse doesn’t mean its debtors will be able to walk away from their repayments.

The firm’s administrators will take over the running of the company, although that doesn’t mean they will provide any new loans. The existing loan “book” – the details of who owes the company how much and at what interest rate – will be sold on to new creditor and borrowers will have the same responsibility to repay them.

That may sound worrying: we’re all familiar with stories of debts being sold onto businesses that use aggressive tactics and send collectors around to pressure people into making repayments faster.

However, there’s actually a lot of protection for borrowers in these circumstances.

The charity StepChange says that borrowers rights cannot be changed just because a debt has been sold on. The buyer has to follow the same rules as the original creditor, so if borrowers keep making their repayments on time then nothing will change except the name of the company they repay.

So Wonga customers are unlikely to notice a difference and are protected from any changes to terms and conditions.

Debts in arrears are often sold on to businesses that specialise in chasing overdue repayments, meaning that the demand for payment scales up accordingly. These businesses buy a book of overdue debt for less than its face value and then chase the debt – making a profit if they succeed in securing full repayment.

However, they can’t increase interest rates or add charges to a debt unless that was agreed in the original credit agreement. And it isn’t in their interests to drive a borrower into insolvency, so it’s usually possible to make new arrangements to pay with them.

So, rights don’t change and Wonga customers will simply begin making repayments to a new creditor.

However, anyone who runs up arrears, whether on a loan or for services such as household bills, may find their debts are sold onto debt purchasers. And while their rights wouldn’t change, the efficiency with which their debt is pursued might.

What happens if I’m in credit and a business goes bust?

For debtors, the amount they owe a business is one of its assets that can be sold. For creditors, it’s slightly different.

With banks, building societies or credit unions there’s a good level of protection in place. If one of those went bust the Financial Services Compensation Scheme provides protection up to a maximum of £85,000.

For joint accounts the protection available doubles. For savers with even greater sums stashed, they can share their money across more than one banking group to get the same protection on every account – although that’s only if they share your money across more than one banking group, not brand. Some groups own several brands so it’s important to check.

But what about those people who are in credit with a company? Perhaps they’ve paid for an order that hasn’t been delivered or they keep a balance on their account and make occasional purchases, such as with a wine club.

In those situations, it can be much harder to get back what’s owed and there are no guarantees. The first step is to submit a claim to the administrator outlining what money is owed and what for, the consumer champion Which? warns that if creditors don’t act they won’t get a penny back.

Another option may be to make a claim against the card provider used. Customers who made a purchase or even part of the purchase using a credit card can demand their card provider reimburse them.

Which? explains: “For example, if you ordered a new sofa from a furniture store, paid a £500 deposit with your credit card and then paid the balance of £1,000 by cheque, you’d be covered for the whole £1,500 if the company went out of business and you didn’t receive your sofa.”

If a customer made the full payment using a debit card then they need to act fast when the company they paid goes bust. If they act within 120 days they may be able to claim their money back through chargeback, although this isn’t enshrined in law and so rights can vary.

A very common form of credit leftover when a company goes bust is gift vouchers. It’s common for these to be refused as soon as a business goes into administration, even if its stores remain open.

Gift voucher holders may not feel like creditors but they are, and that means they have to get in line with other creditors such as the Inland Revenue, landlords and loan companies – and they will not be prioritised.

What if I’m a lender?

It’s increasingly common for savers to become lenders themselves using a peer-to-peer lending platform. This can muddy the water because it feels like a savings account but it isn’t – meaning that bad debts risk sinking an investment, with no protection scheme to call on.

Many peer-to-peer platforms offer contingency funds that may pay out if a borrower defaults but there are no hard and fast rules as it varies from website to website. That means it’s vital would-be lenders check what protection is available before they commit their cash.

====== 846 ========

IS YET ANOTHER ISA THE ANSWER TO THE CARE CRISIS?

A new “care ISA” designed to help solve the country’s rapidly worsening care crisis has been criticised for only appealing to those who are already well off.

The proposed ISA was revealed in last weekend’s Sunday Telegraph, which reports that it would be exempt from inheritance tax (IHT) so that any unused funds would be returned to the account holder’s family on their death without the tax office touching a penny.

But the threshold for IHT is £325,000, for couples it’s effectively doubled and people who leave their family home to their children or grandchildren can increase their exemption to £450,000, rising to £500,000 each by 2020.

So very few people actually pay any IHT, meaning the incentive to save into a care ISA would be reserved for the wealthiest.

“The proposed care ISA inheritance tax break will only benefit a small number of people, with the vast majority unable to allocate money to pay for later life care,” says Jeannie Boyle, director at EQ Investors.

“The government’s approach suggests people don’t save money for care because they are concerned about IHT – this isn’t correct.”

Elaine Roche, partner at the law firm JMW Solicitors, adds: “The introduction of a care ISA will not help the care crisis – people who are close to needing care won’t have enough time to put away adequate savings, while the younger generation, who do have time on their side, are struggling to get onto the housing ladder and pay off student debt; care costs are the last thing on their mind.”

Of course, we don’t yet know the full details of what the government intends and more will be revealed in the autumn when an official announcement is made. But it seems that once again ISAs will be chosen as a tool for fixing a serious societal problem, whether they have the clout to do so or not.

Jam-jar ISAs

Firing up a new ISA is a popular government solution at the moment. In the last few years we’ve seen the Help To Buy ISA launched to fix the housing crisis, the Lifetime ISA launched to support pension saving, the Innovative Finance ISA to provide greater levels of funding to businesses and now the proposed care ISA to help with social care.

But there’s already a considerable level of ISA confusion among many would-be savers. Research published in February by specialist bank Aldermore, found that only a third of people had used an ISA product during the previous 12 months, while more than three in five of those who were saving only used one kind of ISA.

This jam-jar ISA approach, where different needs are saved for into different pots, risks adding to the perceived complexity. It seems unlikely that adding another product to the pile is going to help with that.

But still the social care crisis trundles on, getting steadily harder for individuals and local authorities to manage.

More than 1.4 million people over the age of 65 are struggling without the help they depend on to carry out basic tasks, such as getting out of bed, going to the toilet and washing themselves, according to Age UK.

A green paper will be published in the autumn but it is not expected to deliver any new funding for social care for several years at least. Yet solutions are needed now, for both the current generation of older people who need help and the younger workers who are helping fund the support that is available without knowing if they will also be expected to fund their own later life care needs.

The Independent asked a number of professionals involved in care and later life financial planning for their ideas to fix the social care funding issue. Here’s what they suggested.

Adult social care vouchers

John Woodward is the president and co-founder of Busy Bees childcare and was a key player in the introduction of childcare vouchers.

He is now independently campaigning for a similar initiative to help people fund their adult social care via non-taxable salary sacrifice, perhaps working alongside the proposed care ISA.

“Payments into an ISA are made after national insurance and tax deductions, and adult social care vouchers would be a system of non-taxable salary sacrifice, so there’s no reason they can’t work in tandem to solve the care crisis,” Woodward says.

“What is needed is a practical approach that puts the individual and top quality care first. Adult social care vouchers would allow taxpayers of all incomes to set aside only what they can afford and accumulate enough over a working lifetime that they do not have to be out of pocket when they need social care, and do not have to make painful decisions such as selling their home to fund services they desperately need.”

More fairness

What’s most needed is clarity and consistency so that everyone involved knows what to expect, argues Chris Knight, chief executive of Legal & General Retail Retirement.

“We need more clarity over who is expected to pay for care and when – where individuals are expected to cover the cost of care and where local authorities will step up,” he says. “We need clear national rules, simple enough for everyone to understand, backed up with consistent local enforcement where needed.

“We also need surety. People need to be assured that regardless of the solution that is put in place, it will stand the test of time. For that to happen, we need all the main parties to come together to agree how we tackle the care challenge.

“And whether or not this strategy includes care ISAs, it must integrate with the already significant role unpaid carers play across the UK. The informal care economy stands at the equivalent of £139bn, nearly as much as the entire UK health budget.

“This puts a huge strain on family resources – the sons and daughters who juggle their careers and caring for loved ones, or the people who so often give up work to care for relatives, sacrificing their own earning power while saving the state money.”

Transforming care

One of the key issues of the care crisis is that it is funded separately to the NHS, yet when social care breaks down it is the NHS that has to accept additional patients and often keep them until and unless there is a suitable social care place for them to move to.

That puts tremendous additional strain on a struggling NHS.

Paul Roberts, chief executive of doctor-on-demand service GPDQ, says we need to transform the entire system if we are to have any hope of repairing it.

“Addressing the funding crisis for social care isn’t only about finding more money,” he explains. “It’s critical to look at health and social care together and reconsider how the system works overall.

“Investing in new solutions for community-based primary care for the elderly and vulnerable will unlock savings around avoidable emergency admissions and unnecessarily prolonged hospital stays. These solutions involve using technology to maximise efficiency while providing fast and reliable access to a face-to-face GP when needed.

“Keeping patients in the community is not only the most cost-effective approach, it’s also what patients themselves really want.”

Biting the bullet

Increasing taxes and personal contributions to care is resoundingly unpopular but some commentators believe it to be the only solution.

A survey last month found that more than half of all council leaders in England want income tax to be increased to solve the social care crisis.

Matthew Wort, partner at Anthony Collins Solicitors, says: “An increase in tax could provide a long-term solution. While difficult to push through, given the precarious economic position and perceived risks to electoral prospects, the scale of the problems faced by local authorities indicate that contribution via taxation is becoming a necessity.

“Sums sitting in individuals’ pensions funds and tied up in residential property should also be looked at as potential sources of funding, providing a much-needed boost to social care funding.

“Aside from fundraising, a re-evaluation of budget allocation and spending based on importance is vital. Given local authorities have greater experience of commissioning homecare, funds allocated to this by the NHS would be better handed to local authorities in a bid to improve service delivery and increase efficiency.

“There is no silver bullet for the social care crisis, but the upcoming green paper presents an opportunity for the government to step up and show true leadership on the issue.”

Social care is a can that can no longer be kicked down road. A lot is pinned on autumn’s green paper and on the government being able to deliver on the solutions it proposes.

====== 847 ========

INSURERS CRITICISED FOR FAILING PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS

Even a year ago, few of us would have been able to quote the headline mental health figure – that half of us will experience a mental health problem at some point.

But we know it now.

Very, very slowly it seems we’re reassessing and updating our views. We are suddenly realising that ours is a society full of individuals who know what it is to battle with their own brain for the smallest window of clarity or relief.

But the massive, prominent and highly influential financial services industry doesn’t seem to be taking part in this national movement.

As another summer comes to a close and we all pretend we’re not starting to eye up future breaks already, worrying new figures have lifted the lid on the latest evidence of their failure to appropriately deal with millions of people.

Some travel insurers are treating customers with a history of mental health problems unfairly, dramatically increasing premiums for no obvious reason often years after their condition has been successfully treated.

Ben Rathe, 30, from London, was diagnosed with depression in 2012.

“I went on a course of antidepressants and cognitive behavioural therapy,” he says. “It was all very successful and today I consider my mental health as good. Just like if I broke my leg six years ago, I have to be a bit careful, but it has no impact on my day-to-day life.

“I have no other medical issues but when I [declare my mental health history] on an application, my travel insurance premiums go up by around 55 per cent.”

Rathe says he understands how insurance and risk works but doesn’t understand how one historic diagnosis has to be carried with him forever in a way other medical history isn’t.

“I’m at the mild end of mental health problems,” he says. “I can understand there are higher risks with people who have been hospitalised and who have cancelled holidays in the past because of their mental health.

“I want to understand what is going on here. I don’t think insurance companies are greedy or evil. But there’s clearly a model that is just throwing out a number. It’s as if I’m being punished for something historic that I have no control over.

“For me it’s not a problem but for someone who does have ongoing mental health problems with side effects, such as a lack of attention to detail or fear of getting in deep in this kind of thing, the whole application process could also be very difficult.

“Especially if you’ve been open and honestly disclosed them, you may have to call a stranger in a call centre and discuss the fine details of your mental health. It could be quite traumatic.

“The process has to be more transparent, more accessible with fewer barriers. Otherwise you could easily push people towards not informing insurers at all, which does nobody any good.”

That’s exactly what’s happening. Research out this week from the Money and Mental Health Policy Institute found that the sky-high premiums and punitive application process means 45 per cent of those with mental health problems “never disclose” the issue to their travel insurer, compared with around 6 per cent of people with physical health problems.

One in three people with mental health problems have travelled with no insurance to cover their mental health, either because they didn’t take out insurance because it was too expensive or because their mental health was excluded from the cover they could get.

Through a mystery shopping exercise, the charity found that several insurers hiked premiums by more than fourfold for people who disclosed mental health problems that have been stable and effectively managed for a very long time, with some insurers still declining to offer cover. Premiums shot up by between 500 per cent and 2,000 per cent for those who disclosed more severe mental health problems, with most insurers either declining to offer cover at all or only offering cover that excluded mental health.

Helen Undy, the charity’s director, says: “Extremely high premiums and limited access to appropriate cover leave many people who have mental health problems struggling to get suitable travel insurance. We are pleased that the regulator has plans to improve signposting to specialist insurers, but this only addresses part of the problem.

“When an historic episode of depression leaves you unable to afford travel insurance, or you’re charged more for cover that states it won’t pay out for anything related to your mental health, it’s no wonder it feels unfair. Half of us will experience a mental health problem at some point in our lives, which could have a long-term impact on our access to insurance. If the mainstream travel insurance market doesn’t work for half of customers, then it’s really not working at all.

“The way insurance companies calculate risk, and set their prices, is determined behind closed doors. Only the regulator has the data needed to check if it’s truly fair. Given the high prices that many people with mental health problems face, and the harm they experience as a result, it’s time the regulator took a closer look.”

The charity is asking the Financial Conduct Authority to formally review whether travel insurance pricing for this group complies with the Equality Act 2010.

“We welcome the research by Money and Mental Health Policy Institute around those with mental health conditions being poorly served, insensitively treated or all together unable to find travel insurance cover,” says Sarah Page, brand manager from Insurancewith.

“Having a mental health diagnosis myself, I can completely empathise with those finding it difficult to find appropriate and affordable cover for their upcoming trips. In the past I struggled to find cover when the only thing I needed was a break from everyday life, and couldn’t understand why no one would cover me. I wasn’t more of a risk than someone walking down the street with say, asthma.”

====== 848 ========

HALF OF MILLENNIALS TAKE OUT CAR FINANCE TO MATCH THEIR SOCIAL MEDIA DREAMS

Forget fashion, music or gadgets. The desire to live up to social media aspirations has pushed more than half of millennials to buy a car for its status value, new figures suggest, and almost 40 per cent said Instagram or Facebook played a part in deciding which motor they went for.

With two thirds of younger drivers reliant on credit to fund the purchase – twice the number of 37- to 54-year-old generation Xers – research from Admiral has revealed the new, expensive face of social media influencing.

Younger drivers were found to be more reliant on credit, with 64 per cent taking car finance to fund a purchase compared with 38 per cent of 37- to 54-year-olds.

The consequences have financial implications on younger generations too, as more than half of drivers aged 19 to 36 admit feeling pressure to buy a specific car for status or prestige. More than one in 10 millennials said famous faces played a part in their choice of car, compared with just 4 per cent of gen-X drivers.

They may currently own a Ford Fiesta, Vauxhall Corsa, VW Golf or Polo, but millennials dream of BMW i8s, Audi R8s, Ford GTs and Aston Martin Vantages.

Meanwhile, gen Xers would quickly hand over their Ford Focuses, Vauxhall Astras and Nissan Qashqais for a very similar list.

They just don’t have the budget. Most drivers under 55 have about £300-£399 set aside every month for cars, with an average value of £6,900 for millennials and £10,000 for gen Xers. But more than one in 10 millennials say they would be willing to spend half their salary on the right vehicle.

Dr Dean Burnett, author and neuroscientist, said: “In the current economic climate where traditional milestones like owning a home or securing permanent employment are increasingly out of reach for the younger generation of millennials, it seems that other factors are influencing decisions like car buying. Social status in an increasingly interconnected world is becoming far more important as a result.

“Celebrities and online influencers, in particular, are likely to be photographed in cars that they have been loaned as part of sponsorship or are using for advertising purposes. There’s a good chance they don’t actually own or pay the finance for those cars themselves and stretching yourself to copy them could land you in financial difficulty.”

But the draw of a virtual tribe isn’t felt equally across the country.

Just 1 per cent of all drivers in East Anglia are influenced by Facebook in buying a car compared with almost a quarter in London. In fact, more than one in 10 drivers of all ages in the capital say celebrities influence their car choice. In Yorkshire, the biggest influence is the driver’s partner, in Northern Ireland it is their parents and in the North East it is their kids.

The research comes after separate data found most Britons nationwide are “trend spenders”, those who are ruled by their heart when it comes to money and don’t feel worried about loosening the purse strings as long as they can maintain their lifestyle.

Meanwhile, at least one social media addict has attracted headlines on both sides of the pond by revealing how she careered into debt trying to portray a lifestyle she couldn’t afford.

Earlier this year, 26-year-old Lissette Calveiro revealed she had amassed a $10,000 (£7,775) debt trying to become an Instagram star. She admits she mostly spent money on pricey brunches for that classic overhead pic, clothes and designer handbags so she didn’t have to be seen in the same outfit twice and holidays she couldn’t afford to deliver the ideal backdrop for the perfect gram.

She says she spent up to $700 a time on flights in a bid to collect geo tags on Snapchat.

However, a move from her parents’ home to a new life in Manhattan made her change her ways and she got her finances under control within 14 months. These days she recycles old photos to keep her feed “fresh”.

“Nobody talks about his or her finances on Instagram,” she says.

====== 849 ========

PENSION FRAUD: ADVERTS AREN'T ENOUGH TO TACKLE THE PROBLEM

It costs each victim an average of £91,000. The official number of thefts are doubling every year but the true figures are probably far higher. There are eight attempts to steal money every second in the UK.

If this sounds like something from a cybercrime thriller or the worst excesses of PPI – think again. This is pension fraud. The theft of thousands of pounds from ordinary people who have saved money their entire working lives. They are usually targeted in their own homes with a call few believe they would fall for but thousands do.

The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the regulator, estimates that a third of pension holders aged 45 to 65 wouldn’t know how to check whether calls they receive about their pensions come from a legitimate adviser or provider.

It is already the most complex financial product most of us will ever have to try to navigate. But the rules around accessing your money have become even more complicated in recent years, and fraudsters have cashed in on the widespread confusion.

Fighting back

None of this is news. The financial world predicted that the upheaval in regulatory changes that brought about ‘pensions freedoms’ – easier, earlier access to your savings – would open the door to criminals.

Citizens Advice has calculated that 10.9 million consumers have received unsolicited contact about their pension since those rule changes in 2015, and industry estimates suggest fraudsters could be behind as many as one in every 10 pension transfer requests.

“Rule changes that gave huge freedom to retirees have also inadvertently given fraudsters the pension equivalent of the keys to the sweet shop,” says Nathan Long, senior pension analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.

“Scams that target pensioners are wide-ranging, potentially complex, and are often initiated by unsolicited phone calls, texts or emails. Scams tend to have one thing in common, despite their variety, as they offer retirees something that is too good to be true.

“Your best bet is to ignore any approaches when you are contacted out of the blue about your pension. It’s safest to only deal with regulated firms allocating your hard-earned pension savings to regulated investments.”

A long-term solution?

This week, the FCA and The Pension Regulator (TPR) announced new plans to try to tackle the problem. Their solution? Adverts aimed at retirees and those about to retire, highlighting the effects of losing money to scammers. Industry critics have described it as nothing more than sticking plaster.

Commenting on the ScamSmart campaign, Guy Opperman, pensions minister, said: “Pension scams are devastating for hardworking people and can rob them of the retirement they planned. I would urge savers to always exercise caution and seek independent guidance or advice before making important financial decisions. Anyone looking for free, impartial guidance on pensions can visit Pension Wise or The Pensions Advisory Service.”

And yet the government is still dragging its heels over promises to ban pensions cold calling altogether – a simple strategy that would deal a major blow to fraudsters overnight.

In fact, calls are growing for an immediate ban on all financial cold calling.

Until measures like this are introduced, consumers will have to fend for themselves. The good news is that there’s lots of advice out there and it all says the same thing.

Protect yourself

Pension fraud can be incredibly complicated but falls into two main types.

The first encourages people to take cash lump sums from their pension in order to invest in their scam.

The second involves tricking the target into transferring their pension into a new policy.

“Most of us think we would never fall for a scam but they are clever, charming and don’t take no for an answer,” says Svenja Keller, head of wealth planning at Killik & Co.

They offer tempting yields with above-market returns, secret deals which aren’t in the public domain, and they ask you not to share with anyone, and offer social proof – claims that others have benefited from the scheme.

“There is a lot of information about how to avoid becoming a scam victim on the FCA website,” Ms Keller adds. “They have also created a resource, the Warning List, which allows anyone to check an investment that might be too good to be true, or that is unfamiliar.”

“Scammers are intelligent, ambitious and deceiving. They mimic the sales patter used by salesmen, building trust, a rapport and a relationship to infiltrate our psyches and influence our behaviour,” says consumer and business psychologist Dimitrios Tsivrikos. “If it sounds too good to be true, then it probably is. Put the phone down to unsolicited calls regarding your pension and stop a scammer from stealing your retirement.”

The FCA and TPR recommend four simple steps to protect yourself from pension scams:

1. Reject unexpected pension offers, whether made online, on social media or over the phone.

2. Check who you’re dealing with before changing your pension arrangements. Consult the FCA Register or call the FCA contact centre on 0800 111 6768 to see if the firm you are dealing with is authorised.

3. Don’t be rushed or pressured into making any decision about your pension.

4. Consider getting impartial information and advice.

If you think you’ve been a victim of a pension scam, report it.

Visit www.fca.org.uk/scamsmart to find out more.

====== 850 ========

GOT A BUCKET LIST? IT’LL COST YOU £428,000 TO COMPLETE

You won’t fork out for a new sofa but you’ll save hard for the next ‘big trip’. You’re not that interested in owning a wardrobe full of designer clothes, but you can’t resist festival tickets.

You’re not alone. In fact, there’s a name for it. You’re part of the ‘experience economy’ and it’s a force to be reckoned with.

Though the term was coined in the late 1990s, the trend for shunning material goods in favour of getting out there to see and do really took off two years ago, heralded, bizarrely, by Ikea.

In 2016, the Swedish ‘stuff’ leviathan’s chief sustainability officer, Steve Howard, told the world the West had reached ‘peak stuff’, that the boom consumerism of the 20th century had left us feeling claustrophobic and jaded.

These days we spend what money we have on living for the moment, making the most of our time. Despite a squeeze on household finances last year, Barclaycard found our entertainment spending was up 10 per cent. At the same time, 2017 saw the lowest growth in retail spending for four years.

But our new-found love of the life, rather than the stuff, doesn’t come cheap.

New research from ‘life curation’ website wishLockr this week totted up the cost of the average lifetime bucket list and found it will set us each back £428,246 – 15-and-a-half years’ worth of the average annual salary.

What’s on the list? Traditional life goals like getting married certainly make an appearance. but our top ten is dominated by adventure experiences. We’re more concerned about swimming with dolphins and going on safari than having children.

Top 10 bucket list goals vs average cost

1. Get married £27,161 2. Swim with dolphins £298 3. Visit every continent £3,495 4. Go on safari £3,849 5. Have children £231,843 6. Design my own house £146,000 7. Skydive £249 8. See my favourite band live £59.94 9. Climb a mountain £2,690 10. Start my own business £12,601 Total: £428,245.94

Source: wishLockr

Around a fifth of the UK population – roughly 14.4 million people – have made a bucket list of the things they want to achieve.

Men prioritise swimming with dolphins, skydiving, climbing a mountain, going on safari and visiting every continent over getting married. However the feeling isn’t mutual among women, with 40 per cent of them choosing getting married as their highest priority bucket list goal – making it the top goal for women.

Men vs Women: Top 10 bucket list goals

Men Women 1. Visit every continent 1. Get married 2. Go on safari 2. Swim with dolphins 3. Skydive 3. Have children 4. Swim with dolphins 4. Go on safari 5. Have children 5. Visit every continent 6. Climb a mountain 6. See my favourite band live 7. Design my own house 7. Design my own house 8. Get married 8. Write a novel 9. Join the mile-high club 9. Start my own business 10. See my country win the World Cup 10. Skydive

Across generations too, there are some odd differences.

One in ten of the online generation – that is, 16 to 24-year-olds – said they wanted to go viral, which isn’t so surprising. But the fact more of them hope to ‘run through a field of wheat, Theresa May-style’, is a little less predictable.

Meanwhile, a fifth of 65 to 74-year-olds want to join the mile-high club and/or get that all-over tan on a nudist beach.

Whatever your age and, erm, aspirations, be warned.

Not only is it your bucket list going to cost you, some psychologists warn remarkable experiences like these can be all-encompassing in the moment but could be socially damaging afterwards, as ‘ordinary topics’ are the ones conversations and social interactions thrive on.

====== 851 ========

EIGHT STEPS TO HAPPY STUDENT FINANCES

A-Level results day means a lot of giddy teenagers. Whether they are off to university, moving onto an apprenticeship or entering the workforce, a new life beckons. With that new life comes new situations, new opportunities and new challenges.

One of those challenges is learning to manage money as an adult. Students can leave university with up to £50,000 in student loans to repay over their careers, it is unfortunate if unnecessary overdrafts and credit card debts are added to that hefty sum.

So, since the kids like listicles so much, here are 10 genuinely important things teens need to consider as they head off to university.

Pick the right bank account

Getting people to consider switching bank accounts can be incredibly difficult but many students will need to open their first adult account and taking the time to choose the right one is seriously important.

Calum Bennie, savings specialist at Scottish Friendly, says: “Getting the right student bank account is very important, so make sure you shop around before deciding. There are a host of accounts out there, many offering cheaper rail journeys and Amazon vouchers, but don’t just go for the one with the best freebies.

“The most important thing is that the account you pick has a decent interest free overdraft because, while you probably don’t plan on dipping into the red, you almost certainly will, such is student life. But remember, it’s important to remember to stick within your overdraft limit, as the charges for going over tend to be punishing.”

Learn to budget

Probably nine out of 10 students won’t manage this but it’s essential. Those that grasp budgeting will manage their money better throughout university, meaning they leave in better financial shape at the end.

Even better, they will have learned a skill that’s valuable for life.

John Webb, consumer expert at Experian, says: “Let’s face it, you’re on a budget, so get budgeting!

“The best place to start is to work out how much you actually have to spend over the course of the term (not including your overdraft or other credit!), work out how much money you have, whether it’s from a student loan, grant allowance from parents, savings or income from a part-time job.

“Next, split your outgoings into what you need and what you like doing, while working out what you actually don’t need and can probably live without. Once you’ve worked out how much you need to spend on what you’ll need, you’re in a good place to set aside for the things you want to do.”

Choose your friends and your flatmates carefully

Many students start their undergrad years off in halls or in university flats but often move into flats with their friends after that first year.

Choosing those friends carefully and setting up rules for communal bills is essential. But while a shared bank account may seem like an easy way to manage the money, it may not be a good idea.

Having a shared bank account where money for bills is paid into will mean students are “co-scored” by agencies.

Justin Basini, chief executive of ClearScore, says: “Actions that may seem harmless at the time, such as missing or ignoring a minor payment on a shared account, can come back to haunt graduates years after leaving university.

“These mistakes could easily affect their credit scores which in turn can impact everything from taking out a mobile phone contract to renting or buying a property later down the line.

“A better credit score ultimately leads to better deals on credit products and getting a grip on this sooner rather than later will help students and graduates get set up for a more stable financial future.”

Face your fears

Students who aren’t budgeting or who do fall into the red may prefer not to look directly at their finances, like it’s an eclipse. But fully understanding their struggles is essential to successful student finances.

Sophie Phillipson, founder of student and graduate support site HelloGrads, says: “Don’t be the student who is too scared to check their bank balance – this is the worst thing you can do.

“Although the best student current accounts will offer a generous 0% overdraft, exceed the arranged overdraft limit and either you will be stung with penalties, or your account will be temporarily frozen.

“For example, Santander charges students who spend more than their arranged overdraft: its monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the 123 student current account is £50, but Nationwide won’t charge anything.

“If you do find you are struggling financially while at university, don’t bury your head in the sand; speak to your bank. They may give you extended time or an increased limit while you get back on track.”

Get your books early

Students may plan ahead for the cost of accommodation, food and travel, but planning ahead for course requirements can save them some serious cash.

By hot-tailing it to the library as soon as the course texts are known, students can avoid having to buy new copies of the texts. Where that’s not possible, there are other ways to save.

Myles Edwards, membership director of Foresters Friendly Society, says: “One of the most unexpected costs for students can be text books, with some costing more than £100. Use online book resellers, check departmental and union noticeboards, and ask people in the year above about getting hold of second hand copies.”

Use tech

There are so many useful apps for budgeting and managing money, there are some good examples here.

Perhaps the most important app to download is a banking app that allows students to easily check their balance and even make savings.

Jamie Smith-Thompson, managing director of Portafina, says: “Nearly all banks and building societies have their own mobile banking apps that you can log into and view your account from. Obviously, this is a great way of tracking your spending, yet it can also help you to save.

“Many of these apps will have a saver function that you can put money into, so that it is separate from your main account. A great example of this is Nationwide’s Impulse Saver, meaning you can set aside money for that rainy day when you need it most.”

Insure your stuff

Students often move from their parents’ home to university accommodation and may not be clear about what protection they have for their belongings.

It may be that they are covered by their parents’ contents insurance, but it’s important to check. Few students can afford the cost of replacing their belongings if they were stolen or damaged.

Dan Simson, head of home insurance at Direct Line, says: “Heading off to university is a daunting and exciting time; insurance is likely to be the last thing on any student’s mind as they prepare to embark on the next stage of their lives, without the safety net of their parents.

“When even books often feel too expensive, should the worst happen, nobody wants to be paying a fortune to replace their stolen possessions. Insurance is a relatively small price to pay compared to the hassle and cost of buying a new phone or laptop.”

Make the most of discounts

Students get discounts at loads of places, it’s part of the deal. Those discounts shouldn’t be an excuse for overspending on stuff that’s not needed or affordable but it can help ease the expense of being a student and still having fun.

That can be true for students but also apprentices and new employees. KPMG’s head of apprenticeships Kathryn Gomme says: “Look out for offers and discounts. Does your employer, college or university offer anything as part of your benefits package like season ticket loans, lunch allowances or car or bike schemes? Find out!

“NUS cards also offer a wide range of discounts on everything from restaurants to gym memberships so they are well worth having in your back pocket.”

====== 852 ========

CARD AND ACCOUNT FRAUD JUMPS ALMOST 40% IN A YEAR

Almost five million people had money stolen from their bank or credit card account last year, at a cost of around £840 each, according to shocking new figures.

More than £2bn has been snatched from about one in 10 British adults, new data from Compare the Market has revealed, and online payments are the weakest link.

More than a quarter of frauds took place online last year and 27 per cent of victims don’t know or remember how they were hacked.

The level of cyber fraud in the UK has fallen over the past 12 months, but the amount of money stolen has increased.

More than half of fraud victims have had money stolen in the last year, compared with the 5.5 million people who were victims of fraud between May 2016 and May 2017.

Criminal strategies are rapidly evolving as social media and software technology do.

The figures come after 95 arrests were made across Europe earlier this summer following a joint law enforcement operation targeting online fraudsters. The suspects arrested during the operation are believed to be responsible for more than 20,000 fraudulent transactions using compromised credit cards, with an estimated value exceeding £7m.

“Fraudsters are increasingly targeting people through social media so it’s vital that everyone follows the advice of the Take Five to Stop Fraud campaign and keeps their details safe,” warns Detective Chief Inspector Glyn Whittick, head of the Dedicated Card and Payment Crime Unit, which led the UK side of the operation. “People should also remember when shopping online that if an offer seems too good to be true, it probably is.”

Here in the UK, concerns are growing among consumers over pre-populated debit or credit card details that many people use to make online purchases. A third of consumers’ credit or debit card details are saved using web browsing “auto-fill” technology, and more than half are concerned about the safety of this technology.

“In the last two years, we have seen the average amount stolen from accounts soar from £475 in 2016 to £833 in 2018. This is an extremely worrying trend and suggests a significant rise in aggressive bank and credit card fraud,” says Shakila Hashmi, head of money at Compare the Market.

“It is also worrying that so few people decide to take action by moving provider after an attack takes place. Whilst we do all have a responsibility to try keep our banking and card details secure, providers have a duty of care to ensure that their customers are as protected as possible.

“It is also vital that they jump on suspicious activity, something that our research suggests does not happen enough. According to our research, 44 per cent of people who had been hacked had to alert their credit card provider or bank about the incident.”

However, there is evidence that Britons are beginning to change their behaviours as a result of worrying and growing levels of fraud.

Most consumers are now more likely to check their bank and credit card accounts regularly, and to have different passwords and pins for their various accounts, and most now won’t give out their bank details over the phone.

But campaigners warn anyone can be a victim of fraud and nobody should relax no matter how clued up they believe they are.

“All of these measures need to be ramped up in order for people to lessen the chance of being hacked,” adds Hashmi.

“However, if a provider has not spotted suspicious activity or has not dealt with a fraud to the best of their ability then it is vital that people vote with their feet and move to suppliers with a better client service rating.”

How not to be a victim of fraud

1. Keep your contactless card safe and in sight, this will help guard against misuse.

2. Make sure the PIN protecting your card, smartphone or other payment device is strong and secure and, never use the same PIN to unlock your smartphone and to verify contactless payments.

3. Regularly check the transactions on your bank statements – this will help you to spot any fraudulent activity on your account, contactless or otherwise. Checking your statements will also help you keep track of your spending.

Source: Go Compare

====== 853 ========

IS YOUR EMPLOYER SHORT CHANGING YOU ON EXPENSES AND HOLIDAY PAY?

From late expenses to holiday pay, some employers are leaving their workforce to struggle.

It’s a difficult time for UK employees. Wage growth lags behind inflation, the cost of student debt is higher than ever before and buying a first home is simply out of reach for many.

Yet on top of that, many face an additional burden – managing their company expenses. Research carried out on behalf of fintech software company Expend, shows that younger workers are particularly vulnerable to being left in credit card debt because they have outstanding company expenses owed to them from their employer.

More than a quarter of 18-24 year olds are unable to clear their credit card bills because they are owed expenses from their company.

That’s despite the average debt for a university leaver reaching £50,000, according to the Institute of Fiscal Studies, while the website Graduate Jobs shows the average starting salary they can expect is between £19,000 and £22,000.

Vix Davies, who works in PR and lives in London, knows all too well how hard expenses can be to manage each month if they aren’t repaid promptly.

“In increments, it doesn’t always seem a lot, which is probably why it slips through the cracks for businesses and isn’t prioritised,” she says. “When I was starting out in PR and coming to the end of the month, I often found the expenses really added up and I remember crossing my fingers at meetings that it would come in lower.

“I felt embarrassed that I wasn’t able to front the cost myself, so never raised it, and I ended up taking out a credit card to keep the costs separate to avoid going into my overdraft.

“I was typically left shouldering costs of between £200 – £500 a month, and hoping they went through the sign-off process quick enough to not make too much of an impact on the rest of my finances. I was operating very much on the edge of what I could afford on a monthly basis.”

But slow repayment of expenses is just one way employers may be disregarding the financial wellbeing of their employees. While most employers work hard to attract and retain staff during this time of high employment, some are either unaware of their obligations or try to downplay them.

Missing out on holiday pay

The way we work is changing, with more people working part time, flexibly, or on zero-hour contracts. And that can lead to a large number missing out on the holiday pay they are owed.

Jamie Harvey, co-founder of rota software business Rotaready, says: “Many people don’t realise that all employees, including those on zero-hour contracts with irregular shifts, are entitled to the same minimum holiday, resulting in one in 12 missing out on their legal entitlement each year.

“A full time worker doing five days per week is entitled to 28 days per year and part time workers are entitled to the same pro-rata. So with someone working two days one week and five the next, it becomes almost impossible to track.

“What’s more, when an individual leaves a job, the company must pay them for any holiday accrued but not taken. While this sounds like employers ripping off their staff, that’s rarely the case. Many managers aren’t trained in HR matters.

“Their day-to-day work is hugely varied and they’re often still working with outdated and inflexible systems – such as pen and paper – for complex issues such as shift scheduling and holiday accrual, so oversights easily happen.”

Insisting on an (unwanted) zero-hours contract

For many workers zero-hours contracts provide the flexibility they need to manage their work-life balance. However, there’s growing concern that some employers use zero-hours contracts to throw the risk onto their staff and minimise their own obligations, ignoring the devastating financial impact this can have on their staff.

Richard Thomas, employment lawyer at Capital Law, says: “There is now a prevailing view that zero hours contracts may also be contributing to a worrying over reliance for many on high cost credit and unsustainable loans, and as a result impacting the mental and physical health of thousands of UK employees.

“With the issue of zero-hours contacts increasingly entering the political spotlight (the Labour Party has stated it will ban them) and coming under fire from the trade unions, many employers might wish to reconsider their use and focus on ensuring employees are given increased certainty and the flexibility to bolster their income.

“The Matthew Taylor Review of employment practices suggested offering employees on zero hours contracts the legal right to request set hours and therefore employers might wish to consider moving from zero hours to set hours contracts.”

Slashing rewards packages

Following the introduction of the National Living Wage, director of employment research and consultancy for the Institute for Employment Studies Stephen Bevan says some employers have found other ways to cut their wage bill.

“The introduction of the National Living Wage has caused concern among some employers in low pay sectors such as retail and hospitality, and a few (surveys suggest about 15 per cent) have tried to offset the wage bill increases this has caused by reducing allowances or benefits in other areas.

“These include overtime rates, unsocial hour payments, company sick pay, holiday entitlements and meal subsidies.

“Most have been transparent about this, especially if these changes have to be negotiated with a union, but some have been less keen to draw attention to them. Despite this, at least as many employers say they would not try to make such savings because they will erode the attractiveness and competitiveness of their reward packages at a time when skill shortages are starting to bite.

“Employees facing the loss of benefits, in light of improvements elsewhere, can take concerns to their HR department or Union. Union websites often offer publicly available resources which employees can benefit from, even if they are not members.”

Paying for your eye test

The law requires that anyone working with screens, even if they are remote working, should receive a free eye test from their employer if they request it.

Ashish Mathur, eye care expert at Feel Good Contacts says both employers and employees are often unaware of the rules.

“Some employers may not be aware they need to supply this, but some may just simply not advertise it as well as they could. On top of an eye test that will be reimbursed, if the test proves you need prescription lenses for specific screen usage, you are also entitled to a discount off, or totally free corrective eyewear.

“Even if the test reveals that it would only help your screen vision, but it isn’t necessary, your specific workplace’s policy may state that you are entitled to a discount if you go through certain companies. The next time you’re thinking about getting an eye test, it’s definitely worth getting in touch with your manager to see what your entitlement is to save a bit of money.”

====== 854 ========

HOW TO STRESS-TEST YOUR MONEY

Once upon a time, “stress-testing” was an action the government demanded of big banks; now experts say we all have to do it.

It’s the short-hand for checking you could stay on top of your money if things became more expensive – and they probably will.

The interest rate rise last week was a shot across the bows – a reminder that ultra-low rates are not the norm. The move is unlikely to be the start of a huge or rapid rise in the cost of borrowing.

But it will mean added pressure on household finances that are already walking a tightrope between getting by and falling further into debt.

UK household debt is already worse than at any time in modern history. The StepChange debt charity estimates nine million people are using credit cards to make ends meet every month.

At that kind of tipping point, even the smallest increase in the cost of debt and mortgages could see millions of households tipping over the edge. But could that include you?

1. Start with the basics

Before you start working out the “what ifs” start with the “right nows”. What are you spending every month and where could you save money?

“It’s time to review your budget,” prompts Jeanette Makings, head of financial education at Close Brothers. “Some workplaces offer a budget planner, and if available, using tools and modellers like this are really helpful.

“These enable you to identify what the gaps are, what you need to do, and also nudge you into action. Setting out a clear budget, even if just done annually, makes a real difference, and an interest rate rise should act as a good prompt.”

Lianna Brinded, head of Yahoo Finance UK, adds: “First you should include everything that definitely comes out of your account each month to get a total fixed amount, such as, your mortgage or rent, loans and credit cards, and council tax, as well as direct debits like gym memberships.

“Then look at average spending on essential items that are a bit more fluid in terms of totals, such as commuting costs, food, and clothing.

“Finally, look at your incoming funds – only include guaranteed income, such as your salary that goes into your account each month. If you don’t have a set wage, put in an average of the last six months-worth of earnings.”

Now tot it all up. If you’re left with a little extra – your disposable income – be sure it’s enough to live on. If there’s nothing left, and you’re often plugging gaps with credit cards or overdrafts, see where you can cut costs and sacrifice spending to bring you back into equilibrium.

2. Assume nothing

That rate rise many only have been a tiny increase for now, but it’s still tempting to presume that if the interest rate on your debts will go up, so too will the interest on your savings to plug the gap. They won’t.

“The assumption is that banks and other financial institutions will pass on any rise in interest rates to clients who have savings in cash,” says Jamie Smith-Thompson, managing director at Portafina.

“This could be a standard savings account, a cash ISA, or even the cash element of a pension.

“The reality is usually very different. Any increases that are passed on for people with cash savings generally range from negligible to zero. In fact, banks and financial institutions often see cash savings as a bit of a profit centre. Cash has even been referred to as ‘muppet money’.”

3. Now apply the “what ifs”

While the 0.25 per cent interest rate rise has minimal impact on personal finances right now, the consensus is that the central bank will eventually have a “new normal” base rate of around 2 per cent to 3 per cent.

“Considering rates are only at 0.75 per cent at the moment, that ‘new normal’ will undoubtedly cause a spike in some outgoings,” adds Brinded. “For example, if you look at some main mortgage deals from Nationwide, a rate rise to reach 2.25% will lead to an extra £158 per month on a £200,000 mortgage.”

So if you’re struggling right now to be able to comfortably set aside another between another £150-£300 for just your mortgage alone, you should really start thinking about cleaning up your spending and creating a buffer zone for yourself, should rates spike.

Most homeowners have already been moved to action and taken advantage of some decent fixed rate deals. In fact, 90 per cent of mortgages taken out in the first quarter of the year were for this kind of deal that guarantees a certain interest rate for a period of time – often two, three, five or ten years.

4. Nobody relax

“There will be people with mortgage deals that are due to expire in the next year, and they could find the lending environment is very different from the one when they took out the deal,” warns Sam Mitchell, CEO of online estate agents Housesimple.com.

“They might also find they can’t remortgage and are trapped on their lender’s standard variable rate, which means they are vulnerable to rate rises.

“While there will be concerns amongst borrowers, it’s highly unlikely the base rate will shoot up – it’s more likely rates will creep up over an extended period.

“The message is to never over-stretch yourself financially. You always want to have some financial slack you can use if needs be.”

“The good news is that it’s highly unlikely that the ‘new normal’ base rate will happen for some time,” adds Brinded. “With Brexit hovering over the horizon, the uncertainty means the central bank is likely to try and minimise any nasty shocks to the system, if it can help it, like bumping up rates. In fact, it could mean that rates are cut again.”

But that’s a gamble and its worth using this strange period of calm awareness to spring clean and shore up to ensure future economic storms can’t blow you off course.

====== 855 ========

HOW TO MAKE SURE YOUR SECOND-HAND SUMMER FESTIVAL TICKETS ARE LEGITIMATE

British festival season is in full swing. Reading and Leeds Festivals, RiZE Festival, Bestival, Belladrum, plus dozens of smaller music and cultural events.

It’s all part of the booming experience economy, where growing numbers prefer to spend their money doing things rather than buying things.

But that demand means that people are prepared to pay more than the face value of tickets that sell out fast, and this has led to a global industry of ticket touting. Touts with super-fast internet connections snap up tickets to popular gigs and festivals ahead of the real fans and then sell them back at a marked-up price.

Fortunately, the music industry is fighting back to stop their fans from being swindled by unacceptably high re-sell prices. However, this means that some resale tickets become void once they are resold, leading to fans who have bought genuine tickets being turned away at the gate.

There has also been a surge in ticket fraud. So if you’re planning to buy a resold ticket to one of the summer’s big festivals or music events, you need to take steps to ensure your purchase is safe.

Be aware of ticket fraud

Between 1 April 2017 and 31 March 2018, Action Fraud received 6,486 reports of ticket fraud, with victims losing an average of £568 each.

And there is evidence that fraudsters take advantage of the summer months to trick people out of even more cash. Some will post as an agent or website for a popular event, deceiving people into paying for tickets that never turn up or are fake.

Pauline Smith, Director of Action Fraud, says: “Criminals are taking advantage of people’s desire to buy tickets for popular concerts and sporting events, which are often sold out. It’s so important that people are vigilant and aware that there are fraudsters all over the globe trying to make money out of innocent victims.

“To avoid disappointment, [you should] always buy tickets from an official event organiser or website. If you are tempted to buy from a secondary ticket source, research the company or person online before making the purchase.”

Not all ticket fraud takes place on such an industrial scale though, plenty of it is down to crooks pretending to sell the same tickets online to multiple people via resale websites and forums.

Luke Massie is the founder of Vibe Tickets, a fan-to-fan marketplace for tickets. He recommends spending some time researching before paying.

“Do you have any information about the seller? If the resale site requires seller profiles, you’ll be able to do your own checks … You can directly ask the seller to send you a picture of the ticket or ticket confirmation before you buy it.

“When you’ve decided you want to purchase a ticket, pay safely. If you buy a ticket on a resale site via a bank transfer or PayPal Friends and Family, you won’t receive buyer protection, so use PayPal Goods and Services instead.

“Also, be aware that PayPal buyer’s protection only lasts for 180 days. If the event is more than six months away, you may want to wait until nearer the time to make your purchase.”

Buy from the right site

Some music events now ban ticket resales to stop touts from cashing in, so it’s essential to be confident that you will be allowed to use the ones you buy.

Jessi Dimmock, festival blogger at wheresmytent.com, has some recommendations for people who want tickets but don’t want to enrich touts or risk being refused entry.

“The best sites I’ve used to resell or buy tickets have been Twickets and TicketSwap. Twickets only let you sell for maximum face value, so you’re always dealing with a real person who genuinely can’t attend anymore; they just want their money back and for someone else to enjoy it instead.

“TicketSwap let you charge up to 20 per cent over face value so people can make a small profit for popular gigs; yet they avoid scam sellers by making you enter the barcode of the ticket you are selling (so no selling the same ticket to multiple people!).”

Know the rules

Massie warns that reselling is not always allowed: “Find out if there are any limitations on the resale of tickets for your chosen festival. For example, Glastonbury manages its own resale. If festival season means Pyramid Stage or Healing Fields for you, you’ll need to buy from the festival directly if you miss out on tickets this October.”

Dimmock agrees this can be a real danger: “No real music lover minds paying face value or even a little more to see a sold out or last-minute gig.

“Just make sure you check the T&Cs of the individual event, as some insist on the ticket holder name matching ID on entry. Never buy from social media sites, touts stood outside the gig venue itself or websites that sell tickets for a hugely inflated price.”

Collect it safely

Massie says: “While we recommend posting tickets through Royal Mail Special Delivery Guaranteed Service, we know that lots of people selling or purchasing resale tickets find it cheaper and more convenient to hand them over in person.

“You’ll need to take some precautions if you choose to do this. For your personal safety, never go alone. Bring a friend and let others know where, when and who you will be meeting – this should be a public place with CCTV. For your financial protection, we’d always advise that you still pay via PayPal Goods and Services to take advantage of its buyer protection.

“If something goes wrong, PayPal will ask for robust evidence of the ticket collection, so the buyer and seller should message each other while they are together, each confirming that the tickets have changed hands.”

Pay the right price

It’s incredibly tempting to pay a massive amount for the gig of a lifetime, but it’s also important to keep some perspective. That perspective can be easily lost if tickets are selling out fast or if there’s a limited amount of time to snap up a re-sell.

Massie adds: “Lastly, ask yourself if you can really afford the price you’re being asked to pay and whether the festival is worth that much to you. Festivals are about good vibes and you won’t get this if you feel you’ve been ripped off or can’t afford to eat while you’re there.

“You should always shop around to find the best price and try to avoid paying booking fees which can be extortionate.”

Music festival worries should be limited to whether it’s going to rain and if you’ve packed enough sun cream, not whether the ticket you paid four times the face value for will be accepted at the gate.

====== 856 ========

WILL THE BASE RATE RISE DESTROY HOUSEHOLD FINANCES?

It has finally happened.

After a decade of bumping along the bottom at emergency levels, the group of nine people that decides the base rate of interest for the entire country has upped it to 0.75 per cent.

By doing so, the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee has unanimously concluded that the UK economy is in better health than it has been for years. Whether the rest of the city agrees, is another matter.

What is true, is that it has been such a long time since the last rise of a whole generation of earning, spending and saving adults that has no experience of what it means or how it could affect them. The rest of us have probably forgotten.

This isn’t the thin end of the rate rise wedge. The Bank has made it very clear it is in no rush to repeat the hike anytime soon, stating that “any future increases in Bank Rate are likely to be at a gradual pace and to a limited extent.”

While we've been waiting for normality to return, experts have been warning that our personal financial affairs are so precariously balanced, so thinly spread, that even this minimal shift could see thousands of people pitched into the red.

So what happens now and will your wallet survive it?

Homeowners

Any interest rate change will affect two aspects of our personal finances most directly – the interest we earn on our savings and the interest we fork out for our debts. With mortgages by far the biggest debt most of us will ever have in our lives, even the smallest upward nudge to the base rate will be felt by those on variable and tracker rate deals.

“For the first time in a decade, interest rates have climbed above 0.5 per cent, pushing millions of young mortgage borrowers into unchartered territory,” says Ishaan Malhi, CEO and founder of online mortgage broker Trussle.

“There are more than three million people in the UK on variable mortgage rates who could see an immediate financial impact from the rate rise. For those who are on these rates, it's a good time to consider switching to another deal.

“The rising interest rates mean the average homeowner on a variable rate with £200,000 left to pay on their mortgage will see repayments increase by £300 over the course of the year."

Of course, those on fixed-rate mortgages have little to fear until their current deal runs out.

“The rise to 0.75 per cent is fairly moderate and borrowers have been enjoying record-low mortgage rates for some time now, so the immediate impact won’t be too severe,” says Shaun Church, director at Private Finance.

“However, when it comes to interest rates, the only way is up. It’s likely that longer-term fixed rate products will grow in popularity as borrowers seek financial stability. 10-year fixed mortgages provide a decade of immunity against rising rates and the average cost is relatively low at just 2.74 per cent, compared to 1.73 per cent for a two-year fix. However, they often come with early repayment charges if borrowers switch their mortgage deal before 10 years is up.”

Debtors

Crucially, a world where interest rate rises is the norm, not the exception, and those with outstanding personal debts will need to shift their assumptions as the repayment demands start to rise.

“This might only be a quarter percentage point rise, but for those who are already struggling to meet monthly mortgage, loan and credit card repayments, it could be painful,” Alec Pillmoor, a personal insolvency partner at RSM warns.

“Last week, we saw personal insolvency levels rise to a six-year high, despite record employment levels and low interest rates. Unless those with problem debts start to get their finances under control, we may well see these numbers rise even further.”

Jane Tully, director of external affairs at the Money Advice Trust, the charity that runs National Debtline, adds: “For the first time in nearly 30 years, UK households are now spending more than they have coming in. Combined with slow wage growth and increasing living costs, interest rate rises like today’s will add to the challenges facing the many people already struggling.

“With advice agencies continuing to experience high levels of demand for their services, it is crucial that lenders, government and the advice sector work together to make sure people affected receive the support they need.”

Savers

Hit hard by years of painfully low rates on their cash savings, those with rainy day funds squirrelled away, might be fooled into thinking their luck is about to change. It probably isn’t.

“On a balance of £1,000, the 0.25 per cent rise equates to earning an extra 21p a month. And even with the rate rise, it could be months before savers see the new rate being passed on,” says Simon Longfellow, head of stepstoinvesting.com.

“As such, savers need to be aware of other options to make the most of their money. A combination of low rates and high inflation meant UK savers saw the buying power of their money fall by £30.3bn in 2017 alone. An alternative to holding it in savings is to invest it, but there needs to be more education around the benefits and risks involved in investing as naturally, people are fearful of what they don’t understand. At the moment many don’t feel confident enough to put their money in potentially higher yielding alternatives.”

“There may be some smaller building societies that would pass on the rise and so savers should keep an eagle eye on rates in the coming weeks as sometimes good deals don’t last long,” adds Gordon Andrews, tax and financial planning specialist at Quilter and Jon Greer.

This will require a behavioural change, as people are tending to stick with their current provider rather than shopping around. The FCA has recently found that only 9 per cent of consumers have switched their cash savings provider in the last three years.

Pensioners

“Annuities, which provide guaranteed income for life, fell out of favour following pension freedoms. However, the interest rate rise could be good news for those seeking a guaranteed income and who are on the verge of retirement," adds Andrews, who admits the knock-on impact on annuities may not be immediate.

“For people concerned that their pension pot won’t last people’s extended lives, annuities are a great option. It will be interesting to see if a rising rate environment will draw more people back to annuities.”

What happens next?

“At first glance, raising rates now looks something of a strange decision. Inflation is above the 2 per cent target, but not disastrously so and a large chunk of the inflation we’re seeing is down to higher oil prices – something beyond the Bank of England’s control,” says Ben Brettell, senior economist for Hargreaves Lansdown.

“Wage growth is relatively subdued, and the economy isn’t exactly overheating at the moment.

“The main argument for raising rates now is that it gives the Bank more room for manoeuvre when the next downturn hits. If interest rates are 1 per cent or more by the time the economy sails into stormier seas, policymakers will at least be able to cut rates a couple of times before cranking up the printing presses for more quantitative easing."

====== 857 ========

10 SUMMER HOLIDAY TRICKS TO TEACH YOUR CHILDREN ABOUT CASH

If you’re a parent then you’re probably thinking a lot about cash this summer. You might be thinking of the £584 you’re likely to spend entertaining the kids with days and meals out, according to the Post Office’s Parents’ Summer Spending report.

You might be thinking about the average summer childcare cost, which is now £133 per child per week, according to the Family and Childcare Trust.

And you might well be thinking of the price of the average family break, which sees a family of four typically shelling out £3,600, according to M&S Bank.

Yes, if you’re a parent, this is an expensive time of year, and it’s not surprising that money’s on your mind. However, it’s important not to overlook the chance to teach your kids about cash during the long summer holiday.

After all, research from the Money Advice Service shows 57 per cent of parents agree that they are the single biggest influence on developing their children’s money management skills, yet 58 per cent admit that they find it difficult to talk to their child about money matters.

So, to help make it easy to teach kids about cash and help them develop lifelong money skills, The Independent questioned a number of parents and financial commentators.

Here are their tips on using the summer break to instil essential financial know-how in your kids, no matter what their age.

Show them the money

It’s so easy for kids to bypass cash entirely, thanks to contactless card payments and online bookings, but it’s important they learn about what money is and how it works. The best way for them to do that is to see you using actual cash.

Mark Aldred, who works for ATM software company Auriga, suggests: “Keep your own cool head for cash in the summer heat. You’ll be spending more times with your kids who’ll be watching every move you make including how you behave with money. Set a good example of not always using contactless.

“Show how you pay with loose change. And when they ask for something like an ice cream, take them with you to the ATM and take out a small amount of cash to just cover the purchase; teaching them the importance of leaving cash in the bank to work for you.”

Take them shopping

By teaching children about budgeting at the supermarket you give them a vital skill and you might even stop them nagging for things at the checkout.

Chris Ogle, a business development manager at the company Flow, does this with his nieces. “I do a little task called the £8 challenge which helps them learn about budgeting. We have a pre-prepared list of ingredients ready that we need to buy from the supermarket, and it is my niece’s job to stay under the £8 limit. They control all the purchasing, so I’ll give you an example we did for a spaghetti bolognese.

“Typically, what happens is we start out in the meat aisle and they pick up an expensive tray of meat. As we go round the store, we write down everything we have and how much is spent and as the budget goes over £8, they have to compromise and realise something needs to change.

“We head back and put back some of the expensive items, in favour of less expensive options.

“The reward, is if they manage to complete the shop under £8, they get whatever treats they want with the change left over. Just like life!”

Play Monopoly

You want to fill the long summer holidays and teach your kids about cash? Monopoly does both pretty well.

Moira O’Neill, head of personal finance at the website interactive investor, says: “There are important financial lessons within the game such as the importance to always keep an emergency fund, manage cash flow by earning income and hone your negotiating skills.

“It’s also an introduction to the concept of investments and longterm payoffs (especially as the game can last for hours). It also brings lots of discussion over money and being the banker is great for maths and mental arithmetic.”

Give them an ice-cream allowance

It’s hot, kids want ice cream. That’s a good chance to help them learn an important financial lesson.

Zarja Cibej is the founder of childcare app myTamarin. Her top tip is to set a budget: “Ice cream is an incredibly power tool for teaching nearly anything to children. I would suggest giving them a small amount of money at the beginning of holidays and explain that that’s their summer ice cream kitty.

“Ideally, give them pennies, so that it looks like a lot, but more importantly so that they have to count!

“Explain how many pennies (or other change) they need for one ice cream, how many days they will be on holidays etc. And help them calculate how many ice creams they can afford, how often etc.

“If you’re game, and your children’s algebra is at the right level, explain the concept by scoops!”

Talk about money

No one likes talking about cash, but doing so with your children can make a dramatic difference to their financial decisions once they become adults.

Richard Stone, CEO at The Share Centre, says: “We are all naturally reserved when talking about money, but with children it is important. Talk about the reason you go to work (and the fact that you are on holiday from work), what earning money means, and what different things cost.

“Talk about the price of different things relative to each other and ask your children whether they think that’s right.”

Shane Clifford, CEO of the app WonderBill, says: “Children are observant, so don’t leave them in the dark when it comes to your household bills. Let them know how much you spend as a family on electricity, gas and internet.

“It will make them more aware of those everyday household costs, how turning up the heat makes energy bills increase, and lots of baths make the water bill higher.”

And talk about investments

If you want your older children to be really ready for adult finances, it’s worth discussing more complex financial ideas.

Stone adds: “For older children you can have more detailed conversations about savings, interest rates and even investing. The idea for example that they could own a little bit of Tesco or Marks & Spencer makes for an interesting conversation when out shopping in those retailers.”

Anne McClean, chartered financial planner at Charles Stanley, agrees: “Run a fantasy stock pick challenge. Give them an amount to invest as they see fit, run a virtual portfolio on one of the myriad of online resources out there and see who ends up with the most at the end of the period.”

Talk about overseas money

If you are taking a summer break overseas then this is a great opportunity to really expand your children’s financial understanding, depending on their age and ability.

Fiona Scott, journalist and media consultant, says: “If you are going on holiday overseas – ensure your children manage their own cash especially if it’s foreign currency. Let them order and handle the cash before they go. Don’t just rely on credit cards with children.

“This teaches them about exchange rates, having a daily budget, working out what things cost in another country, saving from one day to the next to get a bigger ticket item or treat. This is now part of the dynamic of our holiday.

“I do this every year (generally in Europe and last year in USA) and I’ve found it achieves several things: they buy less and don’t continually ask for stuff (often rubbish); usually they end up with one or two souvenirs or items which really remind them of their holiday; they understand that some things cost more in other countries and this leads to discussion as to why that might be; and they learn about saving over a very short time frame.”

Start giving pocket money

If you’ve not yet started giving your children pocket money (or letting them earn it as in the next tip) then the long summer break can be a great opportunity to begin doing so and teaching important lessons.

Samantha Seaton, CEO of Moneyhub, says: “Whether its 50p or £5 a week pocket money, simple tricks can help empower your kids to start making decisions about their money and teach them about saving for a treat.”

“Loading pocket money onto a specialist contactless card is a great way to help educate children about the value of money, while retaining some control over what they’re spending.”

Maike Currie, investment director for Fidelity International, adds: “A weekly allowance is a good place to start as it teaches children the value of money. If they are very little this can be used as a teaching tool – for example you could give them pocket money equivalent to their age.

“Don’t fret too much about how much to give them although it is wise to have a conversation with other parents to get a good idea of the benchmark. More importantly help them to use this allowance wisely.

“They should understand the need to set aside some money to save for a goal, spend on treats and the like, and share, like offerings and charity.”

Chores for cash

A quarter of parents make their offspring earn their picket money by doing chores around the house. These parents are obviously keen to teach them about the value of hard work as 48 per cent said they would withhold pocket money if those jobs weren’t done properly.

But most parents don’t want to end up paying their kids to do every single chore – it can soon feel like bribery rather than a life lesson.

Poverty campaigner and chef Jack Monroe has found a way to balance paid chores with unpaid tasks as a way of teaching their child what’s expected and what can be earned.

“We have a jar of chores that are expected to be done over the course of a week. around a third of them are rewarded, the rest expected as part of contributing to a household,” they explain.

Monroe has drawn up a list of chores. Those marked with a small butterfly are expected to be completed with no reward as part of contributing towards a functioning household.

Chores marked with medium butterflies earn 10 minutes of tablet time, those marked with a large butterfly earn 20p of pocket money. Jobs range from unpaid “tidy the floor” to a paid “help muck out the bunnies”, teaching a variety of self-reliance and motivations.

Be firm

We all want our children to enjoy their break, so if they mess up their money management lessons then it can be tempting to bail them out and buy them a few extra treats. But perhaps it’s worth considering what that teaches them.

Ben Faulkner, communications director at EQ Investors, says: “If you’re heading away for a few weeks set a budget for them by providing a regular, set amount of money each day.

“If they blow their day’s spending and don’t have enough for a treat later in the day, they learn first-hand the consequence of overspending.”

====== 858 ========

BRITISH INABILITY TO HAGGLE COULD COST US £500 EACH YEAR

A very British desire not to talk about money, negotiate or haggle could be costing people hundreds of pounds a year.

Research carried out by Gumtree reveals that buyers miss out on a collective £6.5bn each year because they’re simply too British to barter.

That reluctance can come from worries about seeming tight, discussing money or even simply not knowing how to go about negotiating with a seller. The classifieds platform found that 61 per cent of people buying second-hand items through its website said they would rarely or never try to negotiate on the price when meeting a seller.

For 41 per cent of those it was because they worried it would be rude and 35 per cent felt it would be inappropriate. But if you struggle to haggle over the kind of second-hand goods available on a classifieds website it will be even harder to push for better prices on household bills or larger purchases like cars.

And a survey from the website TopCashback.co.uk found that 17 per cent of people in Britain have never haggled, while only 16 per cent said they regularly bartered.

But from cars and phones to houses and bills, there’s scope to cut what you pay. Here’s how:

House-selling fees

Many of us accept that it’s normal to put in a lower offer than the asking price when buying a house, but few of us try haggling over house-selling fees even though they can run into thousands of pounds.

Research from online estate agent Housesimple.com showed that 82 per cent of home sellers simply accept the first price offered by their estate agent. Yet haggling a 1.25 per cent fee down to 1 per cent would save £1,500 on a £500,000 property, so a small change in the percentage charged could lead to big savings.

According to Housesimple, with increased competition from often cheaper online estate agents, it should now be easier to ask for a more competitive price.

Household bills

Many people never switch providers for household utilities and they also don’t ask for better prices, meaning they end up paying whatever standard rate their provider charges. That is often higher than the best rate available.

TopCashback surveyed consumers and found that those who do haggle save an average of £206 a year. The most successful methods included pretending to end a contract with a supplier; and researching deals available with other companies.

On the high street

It’s easy to assume that the price you see in a shop is the price you need to pay, but the website MoneySavingExpert says it can be possible to haggle at big chains including John Lewis, Tesco and Debenhams.

One way to get more for less without the discomfort of arguing down a price is to ask a retailer to throw something extra in with a large purchase, like a fridge with a kitchen or cables with a new TV.

The website also suggests that there’s more flexibility over prices of items that are already in a sale; you just need to politely ask. If haggling face-to-face is too embarrassing for you then consider using the live chat function many retailers have on their website to discuss an item and then ask for a discount.

Over your phone bill

These days a phone is an essential, but the cost can be considerable. And research from Citizens Advice shows that some of the UK’s largest mobile phone networks continue to charge customers extra for a handset even once it’s been paid off.

Once you finish your fixed deal, it’s important to ring your provider and see if the price can be dropped as otherwise you could end up overpaying by as much as £38 a month.

When you’re at the end of a contract, your strongest haggling position is that you might leave for a different provider. Do your research before ringing up so that you can tell them what price you could get by going elsewhere and ask that they match it.

According to Which?, three-quarters (77 per cent) of mobile phone users secured a better deal – and an average saving of £72 a year – by haggling.

At a car-boot sale

The summer months are often filled with car-boot and jumble sales. Even though it’s expected that people will haggle at that kind of event, it can feel awkward to discuss paying less than the marked price.

Discount shopping website PromotionalCodes.org.uk suggests it’s important to remember that no seller wants to take all their items home with them again at the end of the day. Don’t cause offence by suggesting a ridiculously low price but do make a reasonable offer.

Another good way to bring down the price can be if you’re buying multiple products from one stall. If they can see they’ll make a big sale they might be willing to offer a bigger discount.

Top tips for a successful haggle

Whether you’re haggling over a house or a handbag, there are some principles to successful negotiation that remain the same:

• Speak to the right person. Often the first person you speak to may not have the flexibility to offer a lower price so ask to speak to a supervisor or, if you’re negotiating for a service, the retention team so you can ask for better prices.

• Offer a lower price than you’re prepared to pay so you can meet in the middle. Don’t cause offence as a good rapport can be key to agreeing a price you’re both happy with, but part of haggling is debating what an item is genuinely worth.

• Avoid accepting the first offer. If a seller has any wiggle room on a price they won’t make that clear upfront, in fact, sometimes you have to go through the haggling process in order to get access to all the discounts a salesperson can offer.

• Be prepared to walk away, or at least look as if you are. If you obviously desperately want the item or service then the seller won’t feel they need to cut the cost.

• Do your research. If you can talk confidently about the market and the other options and prices then the seller will know you’ve done your research. It will also show you’re ready to go elsewhere, which puts you in a much stronger negotiating position.

====== 859 ========

WILL GOVERNMENT ADVICE ON SAVING AND DEBT PROTECT US FROM OUR TICKING FINANCIAL TIMEBOMB?

The financial affairs of huge swathes of the country are unstable.

Millions of households have nowhere to go when, rather than if, everyday events upset the very fine line between income and spending walked by so many.

With unemployment low and recent headlines about increasing real wages it would be easy to assume that we’re in reasonably good shape as a nation of consumers. We’re not.

Personal debt levels are now at pre-financial crisis levels and just one of the major debt charities estimates that someone new contacts them every 51 seconds because they’ve hit the buffers.

They can’t afford to put food on the table because they’ve been desperately trying to meet repayment demands, the bailiffs have terrified their kids, doorstep lenders are harassing their frail and elderly parents.

That’s the dramatic stuff – the immediate, aggressive, tangible side of financial disaster.

Then there’s the silent creep towards a financial precipice many don’t even know is there. The 5 million self-employed at risk of an old age in poverty for example, ignored behind the fanfare of the workplace pension for being too complex a problem to tackle.

Seeking resilience

So far, the sticky-plaster approach to fixing these and other huge issues by rolling out a series of savings incentives, schemes and limits has only made things more complicated, erecting yet more barriers to getting back on an even keel.

This week, the results of a huge inquiry into the dire straits of many households by the Treasury Committee recommended yet another “major shakeup” of the rules financial companies must follow when it comes to debt, the way tax relief affects long term savings, and the insanely complicated products designed to help us save more and spend less, but which have so far failed.

The findings range from reforming “uncompromising” local and central government debt collection, urgent regulation of high-cost credit like overdraft fees, and bringing the self-employed into the pension auto-enrolment fold to scrapping the unhelpful Lifetime ISA and the downright foolish state pension triple lock. It’s broad in its recommendations to say the least.

Nicky Morgan MP, chair of the Treasury Committee, said: “Many households are facing challenges that are putting pressure on the health and sustainability of their finances. Over-indebtedness, lack of rainy day savings and insufficient pension savings are some of the weaknesses in the household balance sheet identified in this inquiry.

“The committee’s report makes a series of recommendations for the government to consider that would help households ensure that their finances are as resilient as possible.

“Whilst financial service regulators and guidance bodies have important roles to play, the government should not pass the buck to them.”

Usually when this kind of dramatic desk-sweeping happens, especially when half of the reforms suggest ditching products, services and legislative changes that have only recently been introduced, the financial services industry throws up its hands in frustration.

Normally, tinkering in this industry by politicians ranges from timid to pointless or they are considered vehicles for headlines and voter-courting that are so badly thought through they’ll do more harm than good.

This time the ideas are coming from the cross-party group designed to scrutinise the workings of HM Treasury and its affiliates including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), HMRC, the Bank of England and others.

Seeing sense

The financial services industry has welcomed their recommendations. That’s no surprise.

Many of these recommendations are what insiders such as debt charities and pension providers have been pushing for years.

Joanna Elson OBE, chief executive of the Money Advice Trust, the charity that runs National Debtline, comments: “The Treasury Select Committee has done a good job of putting the issue of household finances high on the agenda in Westminster, where it belongs.

“This report contains welcome calls to action across a range of really important issues affecting households in financial difficulty – including the need to increase the supply of free debt advice, improve debt collection practices across the public sector and expand access to affordable credit.”

Phil Andrew, chief executive of StepChange Debt Charity, who gave oral evidence to the committee as part of its enquiry, says: “The committee’s report shows a clear understanding of the debt landscape, a keen awareness of where problems lie and a robust identification of who has the power to solve them. In many cases, it is the government which needs to take action.

“We agree wholeheartedly with the conclusion that the breathing space scheme should include non-credit arrears, and with the committee’s incisive comments on how the over-zealous approach to enforcing government debt, including the routine recourse to bailiffs, should be addressed. We look forward to working constructively with policymakers to help them address the problems set out so cogently in the report.”

What happens next?

“The committee’s report is wide ranging with a smorgasbord of suggestions and proposals that emphasise just how complex the long term savings market has become in the UK,” says Laura Suter, personal finance analyst at AJ Bell.

“Complexity is the enemy of engagement, so the committee is right to highlight measures to simplify things for consumers and help them manage their finances. However, the report looks at lots of different areas in isolation and arguably more could be achieved by an overarching piece of work that looks at the long term savings market as a whole and areas where it can be simplified to benefit consumers.

“For example, the Lifetime ISA has introduced complexity but there is a danger that scrapping it 18 months after introducing it, just as the product is becoming established, would further dent consumer confidence in the savings market. Such a drastic move should be considered within the context of wider changes that could help savers.”

Get on with it

Complex all this may be, but it is also increasingly urgent. The Treasury Committee has acknowledged that things have to change very quickly to halt the status quo which could cost people money they don’t have and deprive others of savings they will most certainly need in the future.

Whether that urgency translates through the rest of Westminster is another question entirely. This week’s report is not a series of policy plans that will soon be acted upon, however, and there is still the question of getting it past ministers to start making a difference in the real world. It won’t be easy.

“With all of these proposals there is a concern that the government, during the complicated Brexit negotiations, does not have the ability to spend the time on some of the changes that they require,” adds Suter.

“While many of the proposals in the report are sensible and would help savers to engage with their money, the most damaging thing would be for ill-thought-out policy to be rushed through by a time-strapped government.”

====== 860 ========

WHY YOU’LL SOON BE PAYING FOR EVERYTHING WITH YOUR FINGER AND FACE

In the very near future, PINs and passwords may look as clunky and old-fashioned as old bunches of large iron keys – obsolete technology that wasn’t particularly secure even when it was relied on.

Instead you will breeze through life like an extra from Minority Report, blinking at a reader or merely stroking a terminal to process the payment for your grocery shopping, or your travel tickets or a new house.

Think it all sounds a little far-fetched? Or at least part of some distant future? The future is far closer than you think.

Biometrics security uses technology such as finger-print technology, facial scanners and even voice recognition to authenticate users and allow them access to a facility or service such as banking. It helps eliminate identity theft by using an individual’s physical characteristics to serve as an identifier, much more secure than a PIN or password that can be copied or stolen.

Earlier this month, MasterCard revealed it is in discussion with UK banks to introduce a biometric payment card that includes an inbuilt fingerprint sensor. In order to make a payment, the cardholder has to place their finger on the sensor, which then authorises the transaction.

Part of the drive for that is new EU regulations to tackle bank fraud, which come into force in just over a year and mean people must use two methods of authentication in order to make a payment.

However, fraud is a massively costly problem for both banks and consumers. Research carried out by comparethemarket.com last year showed that one in 10 people in the UK had to cancel a credit or debit card in the last year because of fraud and that more than £1bn had been stolen from bank accounts in 12 months alone.

And the Annual Fraud Indicator estimates that fraud cost the UK more than £190bn in 2017, an average value of £10,000 per UK family. The bulk of fraud is carried out against the private sector, but we all pay for it in the long run.

Consumers are wary of fraud but also weary of lengthy identification processes; they want their transactions to be as frictionless as possible. So could such technological developments finally outwit fraudsters and leave them unable to steal identities or is it just the latest development in an eternal arms race?

Stan Swearingen is chief executive officer at IDEX, the biometric technology provider for MasterCard. He’s optimistic that fingerprint-activated cards will be across the UK within the next year or two, and that there could even be a similar solution for secure online shopping in the near future as well.

“I believe it’s the future. When you look at the convenience and security, and what it does to the experience I believe it is the future. There are pilots all over the globe and next year we expect millions of units to be deployed.

“It really physically ties the card to you, it’s not that someone can look over your shoulder and steal your password.”

Susana Lopes, product manager for facial biometrics at identity verification company Onfido, agrees that this tech is going to be widespread in a very short period of time. “By 2020, we believe that most transactions that carry a risk will require an identity check involving some form of biometric authentication.

“Consumers are already seeing biometric technology in action, albeit in early form: Ant Financial, the financial services arm of e-commerce giant Alibaba, recently introduced a “Smile to Pay” service in China, where customers at select retailers can pay with just their faces. Apple’s FaceID is another early example.”

Biometrics may reduce the risk of commonplace fraud, for example copying PINs and cloning cards, but even the creators of new systems admit they could be cracked by particularly tenacious fraudsters.

Swearingen says identify theft with fingerprints is James Bond-levels of complex: “If someone was going to spoof this they would first have to get a latent high-quality fingerprint of yours, they would then have to lift that print, apply it to a substance, maybe gelatine, and then apply it to their finger to work in front of the shopkeeper.

“It could perhaps be done but it wouldn’t be scalable, you couldn’t do it to multiple accounts. Even if they could then the back-end analytics would flag it up as unusual shopper behaviour. When you combine it all together this is a compelling security offer.”

Whether this will mean an end to fraud is a question that makes him pause. “As smart as we are, the people who break these things are equally smart. There are a lot of smart people on both sides, I think it will always be an arms race.

“But where we’re getting to is a point where it’s not scalable.”

And that, along with other new technology, could play a significant role in protecting consumers from more everyday risks of fraud. Lopes explains: “Fraudsters like to commit fraud at scale; but by introducing measures like liveness tests, this becomes that more difficult.

“A liveness test requires a user to read out 3 randomly generated numbers to confirm that they’re alive and presenting the information, preventing ‘spoofing’ attempts such as using a picture of a face from the internet to trick the technology.”

Biometrics are not a silver bullet and some commentators suggest they bring their own new risks. Omri Kletter, head of fraud solutions at financial crime combating agency NICE Actimize, says: “Biometrics have many benefits; however, they are not perfect – it makes the card itself more expensive (which may have impact overall on operational costs), requires an enrolment process [and] exposes huge privacy risks in case of data breaches and cyber-attacks.”

His organisation is focused on improving machine-learning algorithms and customer profiling as an additional measure to detect fraud. After all, plenty of fraud takes place because the victim themselves is fooled into handing over large sums of money or authorising incorrect payments. “While authentication methods are becoming more advanced (and expansive, and biometrics is a good example) – card users may be even more exposed to social engineering, scams and manipulations that advanced authentication can’t stop.

“That’s why, while we should embrace these new forms of authentication, we should also develop a richer approach based also on analytics.”

David Emm, principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, has a more practical concern: “There’s one major downside to the use of biometrics. Biometric data stored by a service provider is just as valuable a target as a database containing usernames and passwords.

“In my view, they should rather be used to confirm our identity, with a password (or other mechanism – or ideally more than one) used to confirm that identity. If I choose a poor password and it is compromised, I can change it: if my fingerprint is compromised, there’s nothing I can do about it.”

It’s very clear that some of the brightest minds in the world are focused on improving and enhancing protections against fraud. Frustratingly, some of the other brightest minds are intently focused on breaking those protections. Biometrics are an important step and will soon be commonplace, but they do not yet mean an end to fraud.

====== 861 ========

COULD BREXIT RUIN YOUR HOLIDAY?

If Britain cannot agree a deal with the EU then the country risks crashing out in the spring of next year with no agreements in place. That’s a pretty worrying “if” for anyone, but especially those who are booking their 2019 holiday to European destinations right now.

After all, Theresa May might argue that “no deal is better than a bad deal” but there’s a lot of concern that without some sort of deal to manage travel and trade, the ports will be backlogged and the planes may not even be able to fly across Europe.

There’s also the risk of 30-mile tailbacks at Dover as lorries await processing and cause enormous disruption to other road users.

None of it may happen, some of it may happen, all of it may happen. There’s certainly growing concern within Europe that the UK is set to crash out and the government here is now taking steps to ensure supplies of food and medicine during a tricky initial period. If we enter into the planned transition period then we may avoid any chaos altogether.

But it is still a risk so many holidaymakers booking their travel for next year will be wondering if they would be covered in the event that a no-deal Brexit wreaked havoc on their plans.

The good news is that a no-deal Brexit is still only a possibility, not a certainty. That means that most comprehensive travel insurance policies taken out now will protect against any disruption.

A spokesperson for GoCompare says that insurance taken out before any disruption is known about will most likely protect travellers: “Providing that the issues were unforeseen, you should be covered by a good comprehensive travel insurance policy. That said, if you were to take out cover after a specific incident, say a strike for instance, became public knowledge you wouldn’t be able to claim against this. It’s the same principle as taking out insurance after you’re already ill.”

That’s a message repeated by Malcolm Tarling, spokesman for the Association of British Insurers, who recommends anyone booking their break now carefully checks the clauses of their insurance policy and also considers what other protections they may have.

“In terms of cancellation cover, it’s normally quite specific anyway,” he explains. “The policy will list eventualities when the insurer would pay out. You’re probably more looking in terms of delay and also the cover and compensation provided by air companies. There may also be Abta protection or Atol cover for your booking.

“Travel insurance will cover you on the basis of terms and conditions in the policy, for example, strikes, adverse weather, mechanical breakdown. In terms of whether Brexit causes large-scale travel disruption, cover will depend on the clauses in the policy.

“We don’t know, no one knows, what will happen, but take out travel insurance because you’ll need it regardless.”

There’s also real confusion among people planning their travel over whether their European Health Insurance Card, the Ehic, will still be valid during a transition period. That card entitles British people to receive medical treatment under the same terms as a resident of that country.

If it isn’t guaranteed post-Brexit then there are some concerns that people with existing health conditions might find the cost of travel insurance rockets, as insurers protect themselves against potentially higher claims.

Simon Williams, head of travel at Compare Cover, said: “Although there is precedent for medical provisions to remain, as Switzerland is still a member of the scheme as a non-EU member, the removal of Ehic is still a very real possibility at this stage – and reminds us that appropriate provisions such as travel insurance, always need to be made.”

He warns that if the Ehic were removed, travel insurance premiums would almost certainly rise in basic terms to meet increasing claim costs, adding: “It’s possible that older policy holders and those with pre-existing conditions will be disproportionately affected in the process.”

Whatever the political climate, it’s always important advice to buy your travel insurance as soon as you’ve booked your travel, so that if anything unexpected upsets your plans then you are protected. However, GoCompare has revealed that in 2017, 85 per cent of the travel policies arranged via its website were for travel starting within a month. Many simply booked it on the day of travel.

Anyone travelling outside of the UK may also want to watch the currency markets as Brexit approaches. The value of the pound has risen and fallen considerably depending on the current state of negotiations, which means that leaving ordering cash to the last minute can mean spending power is left to a lottery.

FairFX chief executive Ian Strafford-Taylor says: “As negotiations with the EU continue and ‘divorce issues’ are agreed, there is likely to be more uncertainty for the pound as we head towards the scheduled leave date in the next nine months.

“Political uncertainty has a huge impact on the stability of currency as the past two years has showcased. It’s never been more important for consumers to be aware of fluctuations and the political agenda so that they can prepare as much as possible and buy currency when the pound is at its strongest.”

Brexit negotiations are intensifying and there’s a great deal of uncertainty over what this will mean for anyone travelling outside of Britain next year. It’s perhaps never been more important to take out protection as soon you you’ve booked your 2019 break.

====== 862 ========

HERE’S WHY I’M RELAXED ABOUT THE £265M PAYDAY FOR THE BET365 FOUNDER DENISE COATES

The big problem with British digital technology firms is that they sell out before they go global. Their founders prefer the short-term payoff that comes from absorption into a larger, usually American, group.

They don’t think big. Which is why Google, Facebook, and the rest, are based in Silicon Valley, not Silicon Roundabout. One doesn’t need to travel very far through the UK business world before one hears this kind of lament.

But people should take a look at Bet365 to see a stunning counterexample.

It was founded only 18 years ago in a Portakabin in Stoke. But with a claimed 35 million customers it’s now the world’s largest online gambling company. Revenues in 2017-18 hit £2.7bn. Mouths gaped open last week at Companies House filings indicating £265m remuneration for its chief executive Denise Coates over that period. That’s multiples of the pay of bosses of global digital companies such as Apple or eBay. Indeed, it’s just about the largest corporate pay packet on the planet.

I’ve spent the past few weeks complaining about excessive corporate pay and executive greed, whether on the part of Richard Scudamore or Carlos Ghosn or Jeff Fairburn. Yet I find it hard to get exercised about Coates’ remuneration, even though their combined annual rewards don’t come close to adding up to hers. Why? Because the context is profoundly different.

She’s more of an entrepreneur than a corporate bureaucrat brought in to run an established businesses, as was the case with Scudamore, Ghosn and Fairburn. Coates founded the company. She took a personal financial risk to do so, borrowing £15m from the Royal Bank of Scotland secured on her family’s estate of betting shops.

This econometrics student from the University of Sheffield has masterminded the stunningly effective global expansion, spotting gaps in the market, grasping the importance of technological shifts (in particular the rise of mobile phone betting) and executing her strategy with impressive discipline.

Whatever one’s view of online gambling and its clear social costs (and it’s perfectly reasonable to object to the fact that she was honoured with a CBE, given the industry in which she works), it’s hard to deny that she’s been a quite extraordinary business leader.

No doubt there was a fair amount of good fortune involved, not least the online gambling bans in the US, China and India which drove traffic to Europe. And other members of her management team and her 4,300 workers surely deserve their share of the credit. But, unlike with Ghosn, Scudamore and Fairburn, it’s easier to draw a clear and direct link between the organisation’s success and her personal decisions.

But what about the quantum of her pay? Isn’t that a neon-illuminated corporate governance scandal? Not really. It’s important to bear in mind that Bet365 is not a listed company. Coates owns half the equity and her family most of the rest. It has not taken money from our pension funds. If the Coates family want to pay her such sums from their own business as a salary it’s more or less up to them, provided, of course, she pays full UK tax on it.

Yet why, one might wonder, the desire to extract cash from a business she already effectively owns? Isn’t this shifting wealth from one pocket to another?

The company does not offer a breakdown of where it makes its money and as a private company has no obligation to do so. But analysts estimate that, like many other online betting companies, it operates in “grey markets” – offering services that are currently unregulated by governments but could easily become so in future. If politicians decide to regulate or shut down some of those activities entirely – to make those grey areas black or white – Bet365’s revenue streams could take a hit.

Gambling, due to its inherently addictive nature and often extreme social repercussions, is an industry that’s always been vulnerable to government action, as demonstrated by the recent fixed-odds betting terminal rigmarole.

It’s a fair bet that Coates recognises that vulnerability. Customers here today may be gone tomorrow. So it makes sense to shift some of her wealth out of her online gambling company and into other less volatile sectors of the economy.

Like all competent bookmakers, the Bet365 founder is diversifying to reduce her risk.

====== 863 ========

IT’S NOT SURPRISING THAT FUEL PROTESTS IN PARIS TURNED VIOLENT – THE FRENCH ESTABLISHMENT HAS LONG IGNORED SOCIAL INEQUALITY

Beyond the worst rioting ever seen on the Champs-Elysees, a particularly disturbing drama in the fuel price protests sweeping across France was a threat to throw six immigrants “on a giant barbecue”.

Scenes of intense violence in and around the most famous avenue in Paris on Saturday were bad enough, but the treatment of the unidentified men found hidden in the back of a tanker lorry was especially chilling.

They were stopped by a group of so-called yellow vests (gilets jaunes) on the A16 motorway at Flixecourt, near Amiens, last Tuesday. The demonstrators get their names from the high-visibility jackets all motorists are obliged to carry in France, but rocketing petrol and diesel charges were evidently not their only concern.

“Throw them on a giant barbecue” and “they cost us too much in taxes” was their reaction to the group of dark-skinned foreigners looking to claim asylum in France, or across the Channel in Britain. After dragging the immigrants from their hiding place, the mob handed them over to a police patrol.

The CGT (General Confederation of Labour) union is helping to organise the yellow vests’ campaign and – admirably – made a complaint about racism to prosecutors who launched a criminal enquiry into the incident.

Referring to the Holocaust, the CGT statement on the horror reads: “All of this is reminiscent of very sad and unglamorous events in our history, but is above all clearly a call for racial hatred.”

On Saturday I saw yellow vests smashing up pavements to create missiles to throw at the police, building sites being torn apart to turn into barricades and fires being lit in residential areas. Water cannons and round upon round of tear gas provoked the crowds into running battles with the police, leading to almost 70 arrests.

Since the protests began earlier this month, there have been two traffic accident-related deaths linked to illegal road blockades, and more than 500 wounded. Scores of yellow vests have been charged with public order offences.

However, it would be unfair to suggest that the many thousands taking part in the demonstrations were all punchy bigots. The majority of those I spoke to were part of a forgotten France based in the suburbs of major cities or the countryside. They rely on very low incomes or benefits, and are mainly dependent on their cars to get them anywhere. Their rage is aimed at a metropolitan elite who not only have far more money and power, but who can afford to pay for the kind of green initiatives which are partly behind the fuel price rises.

Emmanuel Macron – the French head of state the yellow vests call “president of the rich” – personifies this class of out-of-touch townies. His perceived arrogance has resulted in a woeful approval rating of just 26 per cent, according to recent polls – all while close to a tenth of the fit-for-work population remains unemployed. The former merchant banker is frequently pictured on a bike at the many holiday homes available to him, and has pledged to keep increasing ecologically motivated taxes in line with the Paris climate change agreement.

More than that, Macron continues to cut public service jobs while liberalising the economy as quickly as possible using presidential decrees. Dissent is right and proper, especially in a democratic republic still imbued with a revolutionary spirit.

The real problem, however, is that opposition to Macron involves as much venal extremism as is evidently found in the yellow vest movement. Remember that the runner-up to Macron in last year’s presidential election was Marine Le Pen, leader of a far-right party then still called the Front National. Its strong links with convicted racists, antisemites and Islamophobes apparently mattered as little to many voters as its equally disturbing history of fascism.

Jean-Luc Mélenchon of the far-left La France Insoumise (France Unbowed) movement did extremely well in the first round of voting too. Had the self-styled “eco-socialist” been more open to working with potential allies, not least of all the Socialist Party, then he too could feasibly have sneaked the presidency.

Both Le Pen and Mélenchon captured the imaginations of so-called “left behind” provincial communities, appealing to mindsets not unlike some of those that voted Britain out of the European Union in 2016. A desire for a Frexit – the French equivalent of Brexit – is a standard refrain among many of the yellow vests. These are the types who have largely been ignored by the notoriously corrupt, self-serving Paris establishment. With few resources or influence, they are prepared to rally behind any cause that reflects their intense anger and sense of frustration.

Like the economically illiterate leaders of the National Rally (the new name for the Front National, with Le Pen still in charge!) and France Insoumise (which is effectively a one-man pressure group calling for a Sixth Republic) they accentuate the negative at all times, while never seriously living up to positions of responsibility.

During recent brushes with the law over corruption allegations, both Le Pen and Mélenchon acted like rowdy political agitators. Le Pen insisted she would refuse to cooperate with examining magistrates, saying they were corrupt tools of the state. When fraud investigators turned up at Mélenchon’s Paris apartment and party HQ, he screamed at them while live-streaming his rant.

Little wonder that French interior minister Christophe Castaner accused Le Pen of encouraging her supporters to cause Saturday’s trouble. Highly organised casseurs – a French noun that loosely translates as people who want to smash things up – were heard shouting pro-Le Pen slogans as they went about their destruction.

Their malevolence gained a great deal of publicity, but as far as persuading Macron to change his anti-car policies is concerned, they were all but useless. As with the National Rally and France Insoumise, the yellow vests are a symptom of France’s endemic problems, but by no means a solution.

====== 864 ========

OF COURSE THERESA MAY CAVED IN TO DEMANDS OVER GIBRALTAR – BRITAIN CAN’T RESIST THE ALLURE OF MARGINAL POWER

There goes Gibraltar, then. Like a last-minute-of-extra-time winning goal in an England-Spain World Cup final, the Spanish premier/striker Pedro Sanchez scored with a seemingly hopeless shot lobbed into the corner of the net. The exhausted other side just lacked the energy to stop it. Game over.

Like Northern Ireland, the fate of Gibraltar – constitutional, economic and political – is now subject to a foreign power with the force of the EU behind it. Despite her warm, defiant, patriotic words about always standing by Gibraltar, and the meaningless talk about the “UK family”, the hard legal truth is that the future UK-EU trade deal need not include Gibraltar at all. It may be hung out to dry if it proves too inconvenient to British interests, just like Northern Ireland was with the backstop. And countless others back through history: Perfidious Albion and all that.

Theresa May says she will be negotiating for Gib, which is true: but if she insists on terms for Gib as part of the new deal that Spain dislikes, then the whole UK future relationship with the EU will not be settled. The Kingdom of Spain has got its de facto veto, just as Ireland has won over Northern Ireland.

The putative EU 27 agreed statement says as much: “After the United Kingdom leaves the union, Gibraltar will not be included in the territorial scope of the agreements to be concluded between the union and the United Kingdom.”

Sanchez says Spain will insist on co-sovereignty and no one should doubt what he calls the “capital” importance of the Rock to the Kingdom of Spain.

It is more visceral even than the border issue in Ireland, because at least Dublin has renounced the territorial claim to the six counties of the North without popular consent. Spain wants Gibraltar no matter what the Gibraltarians want.

We have seen this past week how Spain, skilfully, will leverage its position, and how nationalism can be such a powerful force there (pace Catalonia). Do not forget that between 1969 and 1985 the border between Spain and Gibraltar was actually closed to all traffic and for most of the time even for visitors on foot – Europe’s other little iron curtain.

The border was only opened because Spain wanted to join the EU. The UK, already inside since 1973, could use the heft of the EU to insist that the Spanish dropped their blockade of Gibraltar as the price of accession, and so they did. It was an example of the EU’s collective power and the leverage potential of a system of shared sovereignties.

Oh the irony!

Spain will also pursue its case to “decolonise” Gibraltar through the United Nations but will now have France, a permanent member of the Security Council, plus 25 more member states lending diplomatic support. It will pressure the UK and Gibraltar governments through the EU trade talks – which haven’t even started in earnest. And watch too how the Spanish use their new weight in the EU to push the Argentine case on the Falklands, for reasons of boosting Spanish influence across Latin America. It will be a global British diplomatic disaster.

The UK is no longer the vast, powerful rich imperial and naval power it once was: it will not be able to resist the pressures to share sovereignty in Gibraltar. There are too many jobs nearer home in London, Leeds and Leith riding on an EU trade deal. The same goes for Northern Ireland.

They are too small: they will prove expendable, sooner or later. Indeed their own populations may start to wonder if a new settlement outside the UK might be more advantageous. After all, both Northern Ireland and Gibraltar voted to stay in the EU. Fabian Picardo and Arlene Foster should take note as they play the game with Whitehall and Westminster, and mind their backs.

Soon, then, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar will pass into the hands of Brussels as its first colonies. The Europhobes always spoke of the EU as a new Belgian Empire: well, now look what you’ve done.

Whatever flags happen to be fluttering over the rooftops, and even if the Queen’s head is on the postage stamps, all the important economic decisions will be increasingly driven from Brussels.

Of course this could all be prevented – or we could at least enjoy some sort of national consent – if we decided to have a second referendum, a Final Say, on this disastrous deal. A national debate now we know the facts. It should happen, and we could hold it in the spring.

It is needed, for I very much doubt that this is the Brexit many of us voted for. It really will be like the Suez affair of 1956, which signalled the end of the British pretension to be a global power, but much, much worse, for this signals that the UK is no longer a regional power.

British audiences are told home truths by the foreign ministers of Estonia and Malta. The UK can be pushed around by nations that it once condescended to or were once its own colonies: No end of a lesson.

====== 865 ========

THERESA MAY’S OPEN LETTER TO THE NATION PROMISES A CAMPAIGN WITH ‘HEART AND SOUL’ – I’D RATHER SHE USE HER HEAD

For years it has been the snug bar bore’s whine that the internet has killed the art of letter writing, and it seems the old git was right.

Take the prime minister. Her grasp of the form has become so enfeebled that she has written one (and this might be unique) addressed to nobody.

That puts her an epistolary rung below estate agents. When Winkworths and Barnham Marcus write to me unbidden, as they frequently do, they know enough to begin “Dear Homeowner”.

Today’s missive from Theresa May lacks that warmly personal touch at the start. No “Dear British People”. No “Dear Fellow Loyal Subjects”. Not even “To Whom It May Concern”.

She pitches straight in to an appeal apparently aimed, despite the lack of evidence, at us all. This could be another first. So far as I’m aware, no PM until now ever wrote an open letter to the populus.

If the text isn’t quite as thrillingly novel (basically, it’s what she told the Commons 10 days ago and reiterated verbatim in the press conference), her intention is.

In yet another trailblazing first, the letter showcases a British prime minister appealing to the British electorate over the head of the British parliament.

In other countries, that would qualify as a call for revolution. Here, it’s just the latest last throw of the dice until the next one.

You could put in a fair shift analysing her letter for nuance and subtlety. But at risk of oversimplifying a keynote address more than three times longer than Abraham Lincoln’s at Gettysburg, it can adequately be precis’d as follows. Heeeeeeellllllllllllllppppppppppp!

The last time she requested Brexit assistance from the public, it rewarded her by removing her majority. Understandably, her tactics have changed. Eighteen months ago – and she was very clear about this – she adamantly believed that the only democratic way to resolve the Brexit divisions was to ask the punters to express their will at the ballot box.

Now those divisions are wider and deeper, she passionately believes – and she could not be clearer about this – that the only democratic solution is to deny us a vote.

In place of a general election or second referendum, her meisterplan is to create a wave of support to sweep away resistance to her miserable fudge when she presents it to the Commons next month.

At this moment, with 80-90 Tory backbenchers and almost every opposition MP determined to vote against it, she is heading for a defeat so humiliating that even she might interpret it as a P45.

So she’s abandoned the outmoded idea that a PM wins a Commons vote by persuading MPs of its merit. If a Labour government tried this trick, she would savage it as a crude appeal to mob rule.

But the mob is as unlikely to pay attention to her letter as MPs are to be intimidated if it did. This is a religious war, and the faithful will go to the deselection stake if their local parties threaten it.

Her next last throw of the dice has already been trailed. If there’s one better way of upholding the democratic precepts than preventing the people from voting, it’s weaponising the honours system.

So far, the only known example of this is the knighthood granted, weeks ahead of the New Year’s list, to the Brexity backbencher now known as Sir John Hayes. He insists he won’t be swayed by that, and it will be hilarious if he proves this by voting against the deal.

Yet the last thing traditionalists like me will be able to stomach is the defiling of a system that has always displayed the British state at its noblest.

Until now, it has been flawless in identifying and rewarding integrity (Lord Archer, Sir Philip Green, etc etc). The award of the CBE to Vidkun Quisling shortly before he sold Norway out to Hitler underlines the point.

If Brexit is to be a kind of Norway super plus on the honours front, with a torrent of Ks and a fire sale at the ermine robe shop, trust in the system would be endangered. And we couldn’t live with that.

Speaking of heart, the PM pledges to fight with that and more. “I will be campaigning with my heart and soul to win that vote,” she ends her letter, “and to deliver this Brexit deal.”

“C’est magnifique”, as someone said about the Charge of the Light Brigade, “mais ce n’est pas la guerre”. It might be even more magnifique, and less suicidally delusional, if she relied less on heart and soul, and used her brain.

If she lands the biggest upset in a two-horse race since 42-1 shot James “Buster” Douglas knocked out Mike Tyson in Tokyo, she will have sold that soul to her survivalist instincts, and saddled the country with a deal almost nobody other than herself wants. If not, her obstinacy will have taken us to the edge of the no deal nobody but the craziest of crazies wants.

For the 279th time of writing, the only intellectually coherent resolution is to try a form of democracy even more novel than a prime ministerial open letter addressed to no one. We the people, charmed though we are to be the presumed recipients of her missive, must be given a vote.

====== 866 ========

15 YEARS AGO, WE IGNORED CHARLES KENNEDY’S WARNINGS ABOUT THE IRAQ WAR – TODAY, THEY DIRECTLY APPLY TO BREXIT

Charles Kennedy was right on Iraq. And 15 years after the war, in the light of Brexit, it is of far more than historical importance to say so.

Fifteen years ago, November 2003, was a bleak milestone: 100 British soldiers already killed and tens of thousands of Iraqi lives lost. It was becoming painfully clear that the weapons of mass destruction that had justified the war were non-existent.

At this stage, we had failed even to locate Saddam Hussein. American helicopters were being shot out of the sky. The long, bloody insurgency had begun that would end up trapping US and British troops in Iraq for a decade, serving as midwife to Isis, destabilising the region, and fostering an exodus of refugees.

It was a repeat of the Vietnam War – less bloody but no less misguided. But whereas Harold Wilson skilfully kept Britain out of Vietnam, despite huge pressure from LBJ, Tony Blair decided to make Iraq a joint venture with George W Bush. This was a fateful judgement that bitterly divided Britain and Europe – and his own Labour party – divisions which have still not fully healed because the consequences were so great.

As it happens, I thought Iraq a mistake at the time and said so to Blair. But I claim no moral high ground. I didn’t resign, partly out of loyalty to a leader who I admired and still admire, partly because I worked on domestic policy, and partly because I never saw the intelligence justifying an invasion which in every other respect was wrong and ill-advised. My friend Roy Jenkins said this to me – and to Blair – with vehemence before he died, shortly before the invasion. He drew the Vietnam parallel explicitly.

However, Kennedy, as leader of the Lib Dems, did oppose the war publicly at the time. He was courageous, he was right, and he sends a powerful message to us today.

Kennedy was a lonely voice of opposition to the war, yet spoke with strength and composure throughout.

In the Commons, he was jeered and heckled by both government and Tory MPs when he spoke during the key debate authorising the invasion. The press mobilised synthetic outrage, The Sun calling him a “spineless reptile that spits venom”, and a snake. There was even a special pull-out for people to throw darts at “traitors”, including Kennedy and Robin Cook.

Jenkins told him he was doing the right thing, but other prominent party figures – including his predecessor Paddy Ashdown – were less supportive. I recall a conversation with a senior Lib Dem MP who called him “spineless” and another who said: “while Charles is hawking his conscience around, we’re going to lose every election in sight as Blair wins his Falklands.”

Many at the time did see Iraq as Blair’s Falklands, maybe including Blair himself. There was even a meeting in No 10 on how we would use the “Baghdad bounce”. But in law and morality the situations were radically different. At its most simple, in the Falklands we were invaded; in Iraq we were the invader. And the wider Middle East context made the invasion not only wrong in principle, but extremely hazardous in practice, and it didn't require hindsight to see this at the time.

Kennedy said all this at the time. What he also appreciated was that the scale of the public concern was a whole order greater than for run-of-the-mill politics. “There is huge public anxiety in Britain,” he said in the key parliamentary debate.

“That is the mark of a fundamentally decent society. All of us, whatever our views, whatever our parties, know that the kind of people contacting us are very different from many of those with whom we deal regularly. They are people who have never gone on a march or attended a vigil before. They are not persuaded that the case for war has been adequately made at this point, they are worried about the new doctrine of regime change, they are wary of the Bush administration's motives, and they do not like to see Britain separated from its natural international allies.”

Vitally, Kennedy also resisted the temptation to abstain in the key vote, although many colleagues recommended this. “If I’ve got it wrong, I go,” he told me at the time. “What I’m not doing is playing both sides. People who oppose this war have got to know I’m with them, not on the fence.”

In fact, he was proven right in each and every one of his arguments. He yielded a huge political dividend and legitimised the whole political system, since without him all three major parties in the 2005 election would have been pro-war. As Churchill was on Munich, so Kennedy was on Iraq.

Why am I thinking now of Kennedy and his bravery and leadership?

Partly because of the 15th anniversary of the war and because of my great respect for Kennedy. But also because of the uncanny parallels with Brexit as we approach the key parliamentary votes.

Brexit is not, thankfully, a question of war. But, like Iraq, Brexit is an act of unprovoked self-harm and a massive strategic mistake that threatens Britain’s credibility and authority in the world. Like Iraq, Brexit is being taken forward on an establishment consensus, led by the government, that it is now inevitable and unavoidable, and that mis-steps taken so far, however regrettable, are irreversible.

Also like Iraq, Brexit has brought out the very worst in our press – the language of “traitors” is back on the front pages – while bringing out the best in so many voters and activists. Witness the almost 700,000 people who marched in October to demand a Final Say with an option to halt Brexit entirely.

In his speech to Lib Dem conference 15 years ago, Kennedy concluded with a powerful warning that is as right on Brexit as it was on Iraq.

“This is a leadership of charlatans and chancers. At the time, they asked none of the key questions. That was left to us. Whatever the eventual judgment, the political implications are already clear. A devastating indictment of… our political system itself.”

In today’s crisis, let’s not hand power to the charlatans and the chancers. I have not the slightest doubt what Kennedy – and Jenkins – would have said and done. No Brexit. Period.

Andrew Adonis is a Labour peer

====== 867 ========

LIKE JOHN CHAU, I BELIEVED IN CHRISTIAN MISSIONARY WORK – NOT ANYMORE

Earlier this week, a story about a missionary killed by arrows made headlines. Details revealing the circumstances around the death of John Chau were not without context, but rather a recent chapter in the long and violent history of colonisation.

Despite government bans on visiting India’s North Sentinel Island, previous visits where Chau was rejected by the Sentinelese people and previous attacks of “visitors”, Chau chose to go and “save” the Sentinelese through the words of Jesus – which resulted in his death.

Forcing religion on others in a “noble” effort to “save” is rooted in the colonial notion that part of “the white man’s burden” is to bring primitive natives to the light of Christ. This unproven, supremacist rhetoric is still alive in contemporary mission work – knowledge I acquired as an indigenous person and a former Christian.

I was born in Kenya to a Christian family. I believed so much in God that when we emigrated to the United States, I gifted my favourite uncle a Bible so we’d be together forever eventually in heaven. As a devout Christian, I wanted to “spread the good news of Jesus” and save souls from eternal damnation. He still credits me with getting him “saved”.

The church was both generous and familiar to my family in the States. An enjoyable custom during the holidays was participating in holiday gift drives for children in distant parts of the world (usually hosted by international groups like Unicef that partner with religious entities).

I was participating in such activities in Sunday school one week when I struck with a frightening thought: “What if the kids who receive these Bibles can’t read them because they’re in English?” Remembering when I first came to the US and could not really speak or read English, I worried that children in non-English speaking nations wouldn’t be able to either, and subsequently stay unsaved. My next thought was: “What if they can read English, but the Bibles never make it because the pilot crashes the plane?” I wondered if their inability to read the word of God would condemn them to eternal damnation.

I was horrified by my thoughts. Horror turned to shame when I asked such questions of elders and was told I “needed to have faith” or “pray about it”. Shame turned to curiosity when I realised no one was willing to, or could, give me a straight answer as to why we were sending English Bibles to non-English speakers.

This was the moment I became conscious that my religion contained contradictions that my faith was too narrow to bridge. I continued to pray and attend church, but I couldn’t let go of the questioning. I wasn’t able to find answers in the Bible, so I began to read other books and seek out other sources.

I found information on Christianity and colonisation, about missionaries and the ways they “saved” my ancestors (with Bibles, violence, subjugation and the intentional dismantling and/or demonisation of indigenous belief systems). I learned of those who resisted. I was thrown into utter confusion when I realised I came from a family that had participated in anti-colonial struggles, yet proudly displayed portraits of a white Jesus at home. I read about Christian history in Africa pre-dating colonialism, but also how the version of Christianity in many places in Africa today is linked to right-wing American evangelicalism.

I do not want to oversimplify people’s histories, religious and cultural affiliations, and choices. But in my experience, reconciling my faith, findings and the ahistorical ways the church operates today, was not an option. Soon I stopped going to non-mandatory church activities, reading the Bible and eventually, praying to Jesus. Maybe my faith was always fickle, but either way, those strange, seemingly childish thoughts in Sunday school changed my life.

I still have a complicated relationship to Christianity. Most of my family is actively Christian (even if some have other beliefs and understandings that Christianity would reject). My parents still attend church and I often join them when I am home. I’m not sure if it’s out of habit or familiarity, but part of my attendance is rooted in wanting to sit intentionally and curiously in a space full of so many colonial contradictions that still offers hope for people across the world; a place that once offered me hope (it was over the course of two years in scattered church visits that I wrote the piece “The Gospel of Colonisation” exploring my story).

I’ve had difficult, enlightening and saddening conversations with family members about Christian faith, traditional religion and colonisation, and it is through them that I am often reminded that the body of colonialism, especially its strong religious arm, is still very much alive.

During the so-called post-colonial, neocolonial and neoliberal eras, colonialism has so deeply entrenched itself that many fail to recognise, let alone mount resistance against, its ongoing presence. For years, I’ve said that while colonised nations received independence, very few have actually taken steps towards decolonisation.

So when I came across Chau’s story, I was emotional. I was angry that some outlets were unable to look at Chau’s death through an honest, historical lens, choosing instead to frame it as a murder, rather than an act of survival by those whose sovereignty was under assault. I was sad that the Sentinelese could vanish from the Earth if Chau had exposed them to disease. But all in all, I wasn’t in the least bit surprised that stories like this are still occurring all over the world.

Mwende Katwiwa is a storyteller/poet, artivist and writer. They write under the pen name FreeQuency

====== 868 ========

WHICH PART OF THERESA MAY’S POLITICAL CAREER EVER SHOWED HEART AND SOUL?

Theresa May’s open letter to the nation concludes with the promise she will be campaigning with her “heart and soul” to get her Brexit deal through parliament.

This is yet another Tory lie.

May has backed eight years of austerity which the UN recognises is a “punitive, mean-spirited and often callous” policy which has inflicted “great misery” on everyone except the rich.

May is the author of the “hostile environment” which was designed to make the lives of immigrants and refugees as difficult as possible.

May boasted to “deport first, hear appeals later” – a policy which led directly to the Windrush scandal where British citizens were deported out of a country they had given their lives to build.

May can’t fight “heart and soul” for her shoddy Brexit deal as she has neither a heart nor a soul.

Sasha Simic

London N16​

Whilst reading Sunday’s The Independent – in particular such articles as Tom Peck’s excellent political sketch, which was immediately followed by an article by May Bulman (More than half of people denied universal credit have cases overturned on appeal), itself immediately followed by articles relating to the PM’s response to the impending criminal court case against Arron Banks, and the knighthood for the veteran Eurosceptic Tory MP John Hayes – I was struck by the notion that if you ever wanted to prove the old adage that the Tories are the Nasty Party is still true, you could not do a better job.

In these few articles, you have all the proof you need.

In these few articles there are tales of liars rewarded with cabinet positions, and supporters of a litany of historic lies about the EU being rewarded with knighthoods, to tales of the Tories happy to get into bed with politicians who believe they are doing God’s work, with no thought that they might actually be unwittingly working on behalf of Satan himself (not just the Boris Johnson version).

Here we have news of the government’s insistence that Brexit is the “will of the people”, despite growing knowledge that “the people” did not include UK ex-pats since they might be considered a foreign influence, whilst happily accepting the growing evidence that one of the main Leave campaigns was supported by money provided by a foreign company.

In Bulman’s article, we are reminded yet again of the Tory government’s happy acceptance of the damage their policies are doing to so many of the very people that voted to leave the EU, and that the government says it is listening to, but apparently only when it suits them.

Unlike the members of the DUP, I do not believe in God, or heaven and hell, but nonetheless am forced to believe that if there is a hell, it probably has a corner set aside for the majority of our Tory government.

David Curran

Feltham

Why aren’t people more outraged about universal credit?

As universal credit (UC) continues to wreak havoc for hundreds of thousands of people, I ask myself: where is the outrage? Just imagine for one minute, if UC was introduced in France.

We need demonstrations to oppose this cruel welfare reform; who is going to do it? Perhaps I should? OK, others too. You know it makes sense. We have to stop this reform before there is a major spike in suicides.

The amount of worry the credit causes is shocking. As a benefits adviser, it scares me and others due to the numbers affected. A claimant has their worries, and we have claimants to support, so imagine the stress.

Anyone can be affected, except for those who brought it in.

Pause, scrap, reform, in my view. Anyone agree?

Gary Martin

London E17

David Attenborough and climate change

Paul Renteurs is right and courageous to question the appointment of Sir David Attenborough to be the spokesperson on climate change.

I have been saddened by his lionisation in recent years: more than 25 years ago, on a quiet family holiday, we were shocked by the amount of plastic lying on the western shores of the island of North Uist in the Outer Hebrides.

We questioned at that time where it could have come from; there seemed to be more than could have been thrown from ships at sea but where else might be the source? I am ashamed to say that we went back to work that year without raising our concerns (we had/have no influence) but have never forgotten the feeling of shock.

The recent public awakening to the problem of plastic in the sea is most welcome. But I have found myself asking, if Sir David Attenborough has been travelling all over the world looking at it from every point of view (lucky man! those of us who have tried all our adult lives to be responsible with our carbon footprint will never have such wonderful experiences), why has he never questioned what was patently obvious to us all those years ago? His championship of the anti-plastic lobby is welcome because he has power to influence, but was he truly looking through all those years of opportunity?

He is not a scientist and there are many, younger, better informed voices who could speak more powerfully for those of us who have been trying to live our lives responsibly in respect of the dangers of climate change for very many years.

Thank you, Paul Renteurs.

Elizabeth Harrison

Twyford

Bitcoin: about as efficient as rubbing two sticks together

Your article “Bitcoin price crash causes bankruptcy and mass cryptocurrency mine closures” picks up on the effect bitcoin’s price has on the economics of mining bitcoins, but not on bitcoin’s underlying inefficiency.

This hides the key flaw at the heart of bitcoin. A cryptocurrency like bitcoin uses blockchain technology to create a database. This is only secure when lots of computers solve an utterly pointless maths problem. This problem does not advance science nor create wealth – except within the bitcoin world. This process consumes more electricity than the Republic of Ireland.

Just to run a single database.

This fundamental waste of resources is one very good reason to doubt bitcoin’s longterm future. In terms of electricity used per transaction, bitcoin is over 2,000 times less efficient than a traditional approach.

One estimate shows that bitcoin consumes 29 TWh of electricity a year to handle around 68 million transactions. RBS, a traditional bank, consumes a rather more modest 821GWh while handling somewhere in the region of 4 billion transactions a year (as well as providing many other services such as offering loans, mortgages, credit cards, financial advice etc to 15 million customers).

Bitcoin’s inherent inefficiency makes it the financial equivalent of rubbing two sticks together to make fire.

John Young

Edinburgh

Doesn’t anyone understand democracy?

I find it incredible that politicians, journalists and academics have failed to notice that having a people’s vote has replaced representative democracy with direct democracy.

It’s not surprising that there is much confusion in the minds of the people what they voted for. The country doesn’t seem to understand how elections and referenda connect with a representative parliament.

Elections are conducted in the public domain after parliament has been prorogued. Referendums are conducted while parliament is in session to allow the people know what politicians are thinking when processing the EU withdrawal bill and to allow Hansard to record the arguments to trigger or not Article 50.

If parliament had rejected Article 50, there would not have been a referendum because the constitution remained unamended, the bill would have been withdrawn and parliament would have moved on to other business. However, it was amended, which should have automatically brought forward a referendum bill to give the people the final say based on Hansard arguments, not the lies and misinformation spewing out of the red, blue and purple buses. An affirmative threshold caveat of at least 55 per cent is a given, and referendum translates from Latin as refereeing Hansard arguments.

UK representative democracy is in free fall and is on the cusp of crashing if deluded MPs manage to replace first past the post with a another fabricated PR voting system to elect the Commons which should be known as the House of Representatives.

Kenneth R Jarrett

Bournville

====== 869 ========

IT’S GOING TO TAKE A LOT MORE THAN THE PRIME MINISTER’S BREXIT WITHDRAWAL AGREEMENT TO BRING THE COUNTRY TOGETHER

Approval of the Brexit withdrawal agreement at the EU’s special Brussels summit on Sunday was a historic moment, heralding the end of the UK’s membership of the EU next March after 46 years. But the rubber-stamping of a deal sealed after long, complex negotiations is unlikely to be the end of the tortuous divorce process.

Inevitably, EU leaders ruled out any renegotiation of the package to make it more palatable for the UK parliament. For once, their carefully choreographed statements – “this is the only deal possible” – suited Theresa May. But the 27 national leaders know full well that, with about 90 Conservative MPs opposing the agreement, it has little chance of being approved by the House of Commons in the crucial vote in two weeks.

Under Downing Street’s original thinking, the EU’s unanimous approval of the deal was supposed to add to a sense of momentum that would carry the package over the finishing line in the Commons. But there is no sign of such momentum; indeed, Ms May is battling political headwinds pushing her backwards.

She now has very little time to sell an agreement which has united both pro- and anti-EU MPs in saying it is worse than the UK’s current EU membership terms – not least because the UK would stick to EU regulations without enjoying any say over them. Pro-European MPs rightly ask what is the point of leaving, while Brexiteers say the deal does not respect the 2016 referendum decision.

Uncomfortably, ministers claim the deal is better than EU membership by arguing that it implements the referendum. But they cannot say the UK will be better off economically, as government analysis of the impact of Brexit is expected to confirm later this week.

Characteristically, the prime minister is not going down without a fight. Her opponents should know by now not to underestimate her determination and resilience. Her strategy is to appeal over the heads of the Commons to the people, in the hope that they and the business world pressurise MPs into voting for the deal, however reluctantly.

Ms May’s “letter to the nation” insists she has produced “a deal for a brighter future”, but again stops short of saying the UK economy will be better off than if it remained in the EU. She wants the UK’s departure in March to be “a moment of renewal and reconciliation for our whole country”. She adds: “It must mark the point when we put aside the labels of ‘leave’ or ‘remain’ for good and we come together again as one people.” Similarly, she told her post-summit press conference in Brussels that it is “time for the UK to move on”.

This is a bit rich from someone who, on becoming prime minister after the referendum, was too anxious to prove her credentials to Tory Eurosceptics that, as a Remainer, she was now fully committed to Brexit. In doing so, she ignored the 48 per cent who voted Remain and missed an opportunity to bring the country together, allowing divisions to fester and deepen in the past two and a half years. She also raised great expectations among Eurosceptics for a hard Brexit that she could not fulfil without inflicting huge damage on UK companies.

Whatever happens in parliament, there is little chance of the country coming together as a result of Ms May’s deal. The political declaration on future UK-EU relations which accompanies the withdrawal agreement is a vague statement designed to mean all things to all people.

This guarantees that leaving the EU next March will not draw a line under the divisive domestic debate over Europe, and will merely mark the start of another phase as talks get underway on a trade agreement that could easily take three or four years.

Ms May is right to take her case to the public. She should now take her exercise to its ultimate destination by asking the people whether they support her deal in a Final Say referendum.

====== 870 ========

BORIS JOHNSON AND THE DUP HAVE FOUND EACH OTHER, AND THEY DESERVE EACH OTHER

Boris Johnson is still occasionally whispered of as a rockstar politician, so we hope the former foreign secretary understands there is absolutely no shame whatsoever in being 54 years old, well past your best, and having to come all the way to the junior ballroom of a business hotel on the outskirts of Belfast just to find a crowd that still wants to hear the only tune you’ve got.

In the Boris Johnson Story as imagined by Boris Johnson, this is not where Boris Johnson was meant to be by now, which is to say being the hype man for the annual conference of a once obscure and soon-to-be-obscure again Northern Irish political party, firing off material about bendy buses that is so far beyond its best before date as to pose a significantly greater risk to public health than anything ever threatened by the buses themselves.

Still, at least Boris Johnson and the Democratic Unionist Party have finally found each other, and together must be wondering how such a blistering run of combined victories appear to have brought them to the brink og humiliating defeat.

At this event last year, in the wake of Theresa May’s disastrous general election, the DUP’s deputy leader Nigel Dodds modestly concluded that it was probably god himself that had decided to intervene and give Nigel Dodds and the DUP so much power over British politics.

Fast forward 12 months and you’ve even got Boris Johnson on hand to lend to this year’s event a kind of Winners Anonymous feel, like a support group for people who’ve got precisely what they wanted and can’t quite work out how it’s ruined their lives.

Yes, it’s a real headscratcher, this one. Ask absolutely anyone at DUP conference what they cherish above all else, and contrary to popular belief, it won’t actually be their Werther’s Originals, it’ll be the union with Great Britain. It is “the guiding star through the darkness”, the never ecclesiastically under-clubbed Dodds said on Saturday. “We don’t gamble,” he added. “Not with the union.”

But history kind of intimates otherwise. They backed Brexit, for a start, that thing that absolutely everybody said would risk breaking the union, and they won that one. And then, as a little bonus, they got an election that allowed them to dictate terms over the actual government.

So how on earth has it come to be that, as of now, Brexit, the very thing they wanted, and through the medium of a prime minister over whom they claim to hold sway, is looking rather like it might, whisper it guys, actually, erm, kind of break up the union?

God, in his unknowable ways, has really buggered this up, hasn’t he Nigel? Still, as the search for someone to blame for all this hurtles towards its most desperate phase they really should be thanking the Almighty for putting himself in the firing line at this opportune time.

“It’s hard to imagine how the results could have done more to maximise our influence,” were Dodds’s precise words last year. And yet here we are, long past the point at which the negotiations were meant to have been finished, with a deal on the table that the DUP won’t tolerate, and with precious few ideas what to do about it, other than to use their fully maximised influence to smash everything to pieces because they can’t get their own way.

It’s proper mad stuff, this Northern Irish politics, even if they’re doing their best to emulate it over on the mainland.

That the DUP can be pro-Brexit, put their beloved union in peril, then clean up the electoral advantages that come from claiming to be the only ones who care about it is the sort of national gaslighting that would make Donald Trump jealous. Then there’s the fact that they can squeeze a billion quid out of Theresa May, and when a plan comes together, namely the backstop, that almost all Northern Irish businesses agree would be an absolutely wonderful “best of both worlds scenario”, they’ll gladly give the money back to make sure it doesn’t happen.

There are such things as “liberal unionists”, who aren’t heard so much from anymore, who’ll admit to not having a clue who to vote for. Welcome to 2018. Fun isn’t it.

More to the point, if it’s ideas the DUP were after, I’m afraid to say they flew in the wrong act. Having to listen to the Brexiteers constantly fight the same absurd battles was the price Remainers imagined they’d have to pay for winning the referendum not losing it.

Watching Boris Johnson continuing to fight the referendum campaign two years after winning it is one of Brexit’s most troubling realities.

Every ingredient was there, it’s just that the EU has become the backstop. There were lies about EU regulations that restrict British businesses, this time pertaining to hovercrafts. There was Brussels “having the UK exactly where it wants it.” There was the “freedom to do our own trade deals,” all that stuff that should have come to pass so easily by now, and the mere fact that absolutely none of it has should not in any way lead you to believe that none of it was ever true.

And of course, there was the promise, again to build a bridge to Scotland, over Beaufort’s Dyke, an unexploded Second World War munitions dump at the bottom of the sea, and for precious little economic benefit to either side. “The problem isn’t Beaufort’s Dyke,” he said, “The problem is a lack of political will”.

It was the perfect distillation of eau de Boris, a fragrance of which everybody recognises the smell. Who knows, maybe he’ll build the thing one day, and when the central supports are suddenly blown away in the middle of rush hour by some giant German bomb everybody told him was there, that too will be the EU’s fault.

But the real purpose of his attendance was clear enough. He knows very well that all that either he or the DUP have come up with by way of a solution, which is to “bin the backstop”, is something the European Union could hardly have been clearer they will not countenance. The answer, both he and the DUP think, is to “carry on negotiating”, to “use the time we have left” to come out with a different solution, one that, in a few short months, can resolve the irresolvable questions that no one has managed to resolve in the last 18.

The only solutions at the DUP’s disposal are a series of very drastic levers, and he has to make sure they pull the right one. In the last few days, Arlene Foster has publicly flirted with ending the “confidence and supply” arrangement with the government, an agreement her senior colleagues already speak of in the past tense. This may very well not be in the national interest, not even in the DUP’s interest, but most of all, it wouldn’t be in Boris Johnson’s interest, and that definitely will not do. So, after savaging everything Theresa May, and his own government, has achieved in the last 18 months, it was, all of a sudden, “absolutely vital that we keep this partnership going”.

Don’t bring down the government, in other words, just bring down the Brexit deal. Let’s keep this machine ticking over, and I can slot right into the driving seat. Then we can do wondrous things together, in this precious United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, that together, me through my utter lack of all shame, and you through your mad flag waving nationalistic self harm, will have brought fully to its knees.

====== 871 ========

ARLENE FOSTER, LEADER OF THE DUP, IS AT HER MOMENT OF MAXIMUM POWER

The Democratic Unionist Party was handed a historic opportunity by accident of arithmetic in last year’s general election. The party lived up to its reputation for hard bargaining by securing significant extra spending on public services in Northern Ireland even though there seemed no prospect that it might switch its support to the opposition Labour Party.

Now, as the prime minister faces the daunting task of trying to get her Brexit deal through parliament, the DUP might be approaching its moment of maximum leverage. All eyes, therefore, were on Arlene Foster, who has led the party for three years, as she addressed its annual conference in Belfast today.

It was a speech, however, that demonstrated the limits of the DUP’s power as well as its strengths. Ms Foster devoted a long section of her speech to an apology for the “ash for cash” scandal from her time before the leadership as minister for enterprise in the Northern Ireland executive. The overhang of this affair threatened her leadership until it was rescued by the unexpected hung parliament after the 2017 election.

Then, when it came to the “momentous” question of Brexit, she said rather less than she had said in interviews before her speech. She said that Theresa May’s deal failed the prime minister’s own “key commitments” and explained why the DUP did not think it was in the “national interest”. But Ms Foster was muted in her opposition, saying at one point “the DUP has never been afraid to say yes”, and that she wanted to “work in the time ahead to secure an improved outcome”.

In an interview yesterday, she said that she did not have a preference between a closer or a more distant post-Brexit relationship with the European Union, as long as Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK were treated the same – something the current deal does not do.

But this is where the DUP may be approaching the limits of its influence. The EU is unlikely to want to reopen Brexit negotiations. Ms May has unexpectedly thrown down the gauntlet to the DUP and has dared its 10 MPs to vote against the deal.

Ms Foster still has one weapon in her armoury. Her MPs could join with the opposition in bringing down Ms May’s government and either installing Jeremy Corbyn as prime minister or, after a 14-day period as required by the Fixed-term Parliaments Act, forcing another general election.

We can see why the DUP would not want a new election, because it would be unlikely to throw up another result that would give them the balance of power. But, in her interview with The Times yesterday, Ms Foster accepted that Ms May’s Brexit deal was a “greater threat” than Mr Corbyn as prime minister. And in her speech she drew attention to her common ground with Mr Corbyn in opposing a regulatory border in the Irish Sea.

It would be an extraordinary turn of events for the DUP to contemplate putting Mr Corbyn in No 10, but the next few weeks will see history being made, one way or the other.

====== 872 ========

AN UNEXPECTED NEW GROUP, BREXITEERS AGAINST BREXIT, THREATENS THERESA MAY’S PLAN

Leave aside the theatrics of Spain’s last-minute objection over Gibraltar, the great European question is still whether Theresa May can get her deal through parliament. Nobody knows the answer to that. The prime minister has two plans, but no idea if they will work or not.

One of them involves persuading two groups of MPs in opposite directions. Last week I pointed out that Labour MPs risked pushing Britain out of the EU without a deal if they voted against the prime minister’s Brexit. That remains a possibility in the background, but since the agreement on Thursday on part two of the Brexit deal – the outline of the future trade relationship – everything has changed.

Now the threat to May comes from Brexiteers who say that her deal is worse than staying in the EU. Boris Johnson and Dominic Raab claim that they are not advocating staying in the EU, but if they are faced with a choice between May’s deal and staying in the EU, what else can they mean?

Of course they say what they really want is for us to leave without a deal – or a Canada-style free trade deal, which amounts to the same thing, because it is unacceptable to the EU unless it excludes Northern Ireland. But there is a majority in the Commons against a no-deal Brexit, so their choice could be May’s Brexit or no Brexit.

We have gone through the looking-glass to a world in which Philip Hammond, the chancellor and leading Remainer, said this morning we would be better off outside the EU, while a new movement of Brexiteers against Brexit has sprung up to argue, in effect, that we might as well stay in the EU.

The Tory Remainers are for Brexit while the Brexiteers are for Remain. It would be high comedy if we were not talking about people preparing to roll dice to decide the nation’s future.

So how does the Remainer-for-Brexit prime minister hope to win the votes in parliament? In two ways, I think: persuasion and attrition. First she has got to explain the deal. “She hasn’t managed to package it in a way that allows people to understand it,” one cabinet minister pointed out unhelpfully to James Forsyth of The Spectator.

Expect to hear over the next two or three weeks the reasons why Theresa May is confident Britain would not be permanently trapped in the backstop – the arrangements to guarantee an open border in Ireland. That is the part of the deal that has provoked the overblown rhetoric from the Brexiteers against Brexit brigade about our being a “colony” or a “vassal state”.

The prime minister and her small band of loyalists, now reinforced by another Remainer-for-Brexit, Amber Rudd, will argue that the backstop would be “mutually uncomfortable”. The UK government wouldn’t like the European Court of Justice having a say over parts of the Northern Ireland economy; while EU27 governments think British, especially Northern Irish, companies would have an unfair advantage because they would not be bound enough by EU law.

What is more, the UK government argues that there is no legal basis in Article 50 for a permanent arrangement – it is explicitly described as temporary in the legally binding withdrawal agreement.

This is, however, a rather technical sales pitch, up against the slogans of “Brexit in name only” and “EU vassalage”. In the end, the simple pitch will have to be that May’s deal takes us out of the EU, as the people wanted, but keeps us in a close economic relationship for the sake of jobs and living standards. A jobs-first Brexit, you might say.

The second part of May’s plan to get her deal through parliament is attrition. One by one, she hopes to close off the other options. It would not be surprising if EU leaders rule out the idea of renegotiating the deal once they have formally approved it. (In any case the only likely alternative deal would be like Norway in a customs union: in effect non-voting EU membership, including free movement of people.)

Then there is the option of postponing Brexit while we have another referendum. Johnson and Raab ought to vote for that, but they won’t, and I still don’t think there are enough pro-EU MPs who would back it if they could have May’s deal instead. Once a final-say referendum has been defeated, the only options left would be May’s deal or leaving without a deal, and we know which way most MPs ought to go on that, even if we can’t be sure they will.

Persuasion is something May is not that good at, as was confirmed in the election campaign last year. Attrition, on the other hand, is a method in which she excels.

====== 873 ========

BREXIT REPRESENTS THE MINORITY, NOT THE 'WILL OF THE PEOPLE'

Patrick Cockburn starts his excellent article on the “Good Ship Brexit” with the common fallacy – that “a majority of the British people voted to leave the EU”. In fact the Leave voters were 37 per cent of the electorate and 26 per cent of the population. 63 per cent of the electorate did not vote to leave. We have been taken over by a minority.

Philip Stewart

Oxford

I want to look before I jump

Rob Merrick reports that “MPs of all parties accused Theresa May of delivering a ‘blindfold Brexit’ after she admitted her deal left the public in the dark on a range of vital questions about Britain’s future”.

Surely that’s exactly what “the people” (as we are obliged to call Leavers) voted for – an almighty leap into the dark, various false promises (aka lies) notwithstanding.

Beryl Wall

London W4

I totally agree with Dominic Raab

Nearly two and a half years after the referendum and intense negotiations with the EU, Dominic Raab, who until recently had responsibility for negotiating the withdrawal agreement, has admitted in a Radio 4 interview that the deal that has been negotiated with the EU would be even worse than staying in the EU. That just about says it all.

I agree with him – if that is the best deal we can get after months of negotiation, let's stay in the EU and the government can turn to all the other things that need their urgent attention, like the NHS, prisons, social care, the benefits system, the police, the environment and education.

Dr John Coppendale​

Cambridge

MPs haven’t done such an impressive job as you imply

Mr Ibrahim (Letters) is correct that the people voted for Brexit in 2016, and he is correct that the majority of MPs are in favour of remaining in the EU. What he fails to acknowledge is that those MPs were elected in 2017 as an expression of the will of the people to stop Brexit once they realised that their decision had been based on outright lies told to them before, during and after the referendum.

If any party needs to be careful it is the Conservative Party. The majority of the lies were told by Conservative MPs, and the worst offenders were Conservative ministers such as Davis, Hunt, Gove and Johnson. The Conservative Party has shown itself to be one of liars and chancers and they should be ashamed of themselves for still lying and still claiming to represent the will of the people, which they clearly do not.

Philip Wheeler

Address supplied

High praise

Really enjoyed the piece by Jonathan Liew (Tennis is on fire, fatally divided and without an answer to the question: what does its future look like?). Excellent writing.

Jennifer Herbert

Address supplied

So much for a ‘northern’ powerhouse

After reading Chris Blackhurst’s article on HS2, I would be grateful if The Independent would publish a map of the country – to show our politicians and anyone who thinks Birmingham is “the north”. For most people in the country it is in the south, and despite them talking of a Northern Powerhouse being Manchester and Leeds, there are still vast swathes of the country (York, Newcastle, and the whole of NORTHumberland) that need to be considered.

Ken Twiss

Cleveland

====== 874 ========

THERESA MAY COULD WIN A SLICE OF ETHNIC MINORITY SUPPORT IF SHE TOOK A TOUGHER BREXIT IMMIGRATION LINE – HERE'S WHY

Theresa May has faced widespread criticism following comments to the Confederation of British Industry that EU nationals have “jumped the queue” to migrate to the UK ahead of non-EU nationals during the UK’s membership of the bloc. The prime minister said: “It will no longer be the case that EU nationals, regardless of the skills or experience they have to offer, can jump the queue ahead of engineers from Sydney or software developers from Delhi.”

May has been criticised for ignoring the contribution of EU nationals to the UK, who have been living with great concern about what their futures hold since the 2016 referendum result.

Despite reports that Brexit will hit ethnic minorities harder, May’s speech is likely to appeal to ethnic minority Leave voters, who, as my research has shown, feel it’s unfair that EU migrants have had an easier route to the UK than non-EU migrants. Similar rhetoric which pits EU and non-EU migrants against each other came up in BAME Leave voters’ reasons for supporting Brexit.

Minority voters overwhelmingly supported Remain in the EU referendum. Yet May’s reference to attracting more “software engineers from Delhi” will appeal to British Indian voters who were the most eurosceptic ethnic minority group.

The Labour Party continues to attract the lion’s share of the minority vote. This is despite attempts made by the Conservatives in recent years, beginning under David Cameron, to court ethnic minority support. Yet, party preference didn’t have a significant effect on attitudes towards EU membership among ethnic minorities.

In 20 focus groups and interviews with ethnic minority Remain and Leave voters which I conducted over the summer of 2017 as part of my PhD research, I heard many BAME Leave voters give European immigration as a key reason for supporting Brexit. They wanted to see fewer barriers for Commonwealth migration, disgruntled with what they saw as “preferential” treatment for EU migrants who they believe have had easier access to live and work in the UK.

Of my participants, Bangladeshi restaurant owners blamed freedom of movement for the staff shortage crisis in the curry industry and the difficulties associated with recruiting staff from outside the EU. They felt that the government’s visa stipulations including an earnings threshold of £18,600 were caused by an inability to control European immigration.

When groups such as Muslims for Britain and Africans for Britain campaigned for Brexit, they cited competition posed by EU migrant labour and the contribution made by Britain’s former colonies, which they felt gave them a greater claim to belonging in the UK. Leaving the EU, the BAME Leave voters I interviewed argued, would lead to greater trade and immigration from the Commonwealth. One member of a focus group of Bangladeshi male Leave voters felt they had been made to feel “inferior” to EU citizens: “There’s a historical link; we, our ancestors, came to this country, contributed to British economy, building infrastructure, and even lots of our ancestors fought in Second World War in favour of Britain. They sacrificed their lives … what’s good [about] being a member of Commonwealth country? Europeans have been prioritised and we’ve been neglected.”

Some saw EU policies such as the Common Agricultural Policy as a disadvantage to African and Asian economies outside the EU bloc. And there was a strong sense amongst BAME Leave voters of Europe as being a “white fortress”. For example, one British Indian Leave voter stated: “At the time of the European migration crisis we saw a number of countries putting up borders within the EU, so I think the whole idea of the EU as this bastion of free movement and respects immigrants or whatever was a bit shallow for me.”

But May’s promise that Brexit will lead to a fairer immigration system that doesn’t discriminate against where people come from, won’t necessarily convince those ethnic minority voters angered by the Windrush scandal and those who see her as chief architect of the “hostile environment” policy on immigration. Adding to this, will be May’s emphasis in her CBI speech that citizens from mainly “white” countries such as Canada, the US, Australia and New Zealand will be able to use e-gates at UK borders as part of a new post-Brexit immigration system.

The great majority of ethnic minority Britons voted Remain in the EU referendum, and the Conservatives’ tough rhetoric on immigration will do little to attract their vote – particularly because many supported Remain because of the perceived racism and xenophobia around anti-immigration discourses during the referendum. Many of those I interviewed felt that it wasn’t just immigrants or Europeans who were being targeted, but anyone who wasn’t white, including British black and Asian people. One Remain voter of black African background, felt that even though European immigration was a key issue in the 2016 referendum, rhetoric such as “we want our country back” felt like it was “aimed at us”.

May’s plan to sell the Brexit deal to voters as an opportunity to introduce a “fairer” immigration system may appeal to some ethnic minority voters, but it largely serves to stoke tensions between EU nationals and longer-settled migrant groups from the Commonwealth and their descendants. As members of the Windrush generation found out so harshly, the rules on who’s welcome in Britain and who isn’t, are arbitrary and ever-changing.

Neema Begum is a research associate at the University of Manchester

This article is republished from The Conversation. Read the original article.

====== 875 ========

JEFF FAIRBURN MAY HAVE BEEN PUSHED OUT OVER HIS £75M BONUS, BUT DON’T EXPECT BIG CHANGE OVER EXCESSIVE PAY

“Big investors call for crackdown on executive bonuses,” declared the Financial Times.

Watch out. The next thing you know, people will be predicting widespread investor “rebellions”, or a “stormy AGM season”. They might even hark back to the so-called “shareholder spring”. The paper ludicrously likened a couple of fund managers who cast an advisory vote or two against a handful of corporate remuneration reports to the very real revolutions then taking place in the Middle East in which people actually died.

Besides, we’ve heard talk of restive institutional investors before and it never seems to amount to much.

Is the next AGM season really going to be any different to the current inaction, which essentially allows corporate looting by a gilded circle of wealthy CEOs and their chums?

The Investment Association, a trade body, reportedly sent a letter to the chairs of Britain’s 350 biggest companies, wagging a stern finger at them. It contained a list of demands, including that companies require bosses to hold the free shares they get handed for at least two years after they leave their posts, and increase the companies’ power to claw back bonuses from CEOs who later muck things up. Which happens quite frequently.

The letter also warned of a “growing reputational risk” to companies from excessive payments like the £100m (later reduced to £75m) share-based bonus gifted to Jeff Fairburn, the former boss of Persimmon.

Strong(ish) stuff. But this is hardly the first such warning to have been issued by big City of London investors to corporate Britain. The trouble is that they’ve never really been prepared to back up their words with their votes where it counts.

Anyone who invests money is repeatedly reminded that past history is no guide to future performance. But it’s still worth considering the how the Investment Association’s members, and others, reacted to the largesse showered on Fairburn.

The optics of it were obviously terrible, particularly given that Persimmon specialises in building homes for first-time buyers. You know, the people who scrimp and save for the sky-high deposits required to purchase bricks and mortar in Britain’s overheated property market.

PIRC, which advises shareholders on voting decisions, highlighted the problems with the bonus scheme back in 2017, long before Fairburn became corporate public enemy number one.

Yet at the AGM in April of that year, 90 per cent of those who bothered to vote (and a lot didn’t) still backed the company’s remuneration report.

This year, after Persimmon’s name had become inextricably linked to “corporate looting” in the public mind, and the chairman and the chair of the remuneration committee had fallen on their swords, 51 per cent of its shareholders went ahead and waved it through.

It makes you wonder what it would take for big City fund managers to say no.

My friends at Share Action, the movement for responsible investment, found just one example of a defeat of a company’s remuneration policy in the last year. Ironically it was at Centamin, a gold miner.

Votes on pay policy are only held every three years and they actually count by forcing directors to go back to the drawing board.

When it comes to the advisory votes on remuneration reports that are held annually there were five defeats: at Royal Mail, Playtech, Petropavlovsk, Immarsat, and Northgate. But votes like that are the equivalent of getting a mild ticking off, together with a place on the government’s corporate naughty step.

But votes like that are the equivalent of getting a mild ticking off, together with a place on the government’s corporate naughty step, that was set up to publicise businesses that fall afoul of shareholders.

In fact any vote against any company resolution of 20 per cent or more gets you a place on the step. There were 14 of those on remuneration policies, and 42 on remuneration reports.

Trouble is, boards have a nasty habit of ignoring such dissent. They will continue to do so for as long as meaningful defeats are vanishingly rare and the appalling behaviour at the likes of Persimmon is given a pass.

It’s been said time and time again: there is no real evidence that bumper pay packets for CEOs do anything towards improving companies’ economic or financial performance. There is no real evidence to justify any of the other excuses tabled for them either. They include the alleged international market for CEO-calibre people, or that they’re all stupefyingly awesome, or that they just won’t get out of bed without a million or two to “motivate” them.

As Share Action points out, there is evidence to show that paying workers lower down the food chain the currently voluntary Living Wage, which is set by the Living Wage Foundation, can have a very meaningful impact on corporate performance. It reduces absenteeism, results in higher quality work and improves staff retention.

In failing to address either the former or the latter, institutional investors are shooting themselves in the foot. They’re also harming those of us who have money with them, via pensions or ISAs for example.

Perhaps it’s time we took a rather closer look at the sort of salaries the City’s money managers, who control the votes, are on. Perhaps that’s something for the Financial Conduct Authority to think about and address.

====== 876 ========

WHY DAVID ATTENBOROUGH DOESN’T DESERVE ‘THE SEAT OF THE PEOPLE’ AT THE NEXT CLIMATE CONFERENCE

The forthcoming UN climate change conference in Katowice, Poland, is unlikely to attract the same attention as its predecessors in Paris in 2015, or Kyoto in 1997. But among the dull, humdrum monotony of the bureaucratic implementation of the Paris Agreement, there is one feature of this year’s conference – or “COP24” – that has already attracted some interest.

This year, one of the seats will be occupied, not by any politician or civil servant, but by “The People”.

But of course, fitting over seven billion people onto a single chair is not without its difficulties. Luckily for us, the UN has identified the perfect man to speak on our behalf. At the opening session of COP24, the soft, soporific tones of Sir David Attenborough will treat the conference’s attendees to a warm fireside (or some electrical, environmentally sustainable alternative) rendition of the concerns of “real people”.

Now, it may be a failing on my part, but I have to confess an almost intuitive distrust of anyone (whether an individual or a group) who claims to speak for the people. To make that claim is to assume a homogeneity and consensus of thought which is as dangerous as it is boring. That distrust grows greater still when that assumption is mixed with the as-yet-undimmed influence of celebrity. Make no mistake about it, while he might not be a likely candidate in the Celebrity Big Brother house, or selling his holiday beach pictures to OK! magazine, Sir David is very much part of that culture which favours mass appeal over expertise, style over substance, and feelings over knowledge.

The proponents of the People’s Seat might point to the fact that Sir David is expected to include in his address a number of accounts provided by people from around the world, about how climate change will affect, or is already in the process of affecting, them. But why not simply allow those people to speak for themselves? Technology would certainly allow their views to be seen or heard in a way that did not involve them being ventriloquised by an old, white, middle-class male.

And let’s be clear: Sir David Attenborough is not a climate change expert. There’s no reason to think he knows any more about climate change, its causes, and the viability of potential solutions than, say, you do.

Of course, you may think that genuine expertise pales in significance compared to the overriding importance of “what the people want”. Indeed, in a recent interview with the BBC, Sir David was keen to point out that the purpose of this initiative was to remind politicians “that this is not a theoretical enterprise” – apparently missing the point that, as a matter of science, the enterprise of tackling climate change is almost entirely theoretical, and no worse off for that. The purpose of conferences like COP24, as dry and mundane as it may sound, is to turn the theory, knowledge and understanding of experts into practical, effective change. “The people” – whoever they are – have no useful contribution to make to that process, particularly at a time when they have so consistently proven themselves to be incapable of making good choices.

The cocktail of superficiality, the relegation of the importance of expertise and the assumption of consensus that has produced this catchpenny gimmick has a name, as it turns out. It’s called populism. Again, you may think that populism is a good thing. On the other hand, you may, like me, find it hugely troubling. But what is clear is that populism cannot be good only when it leads to David Attenborough speaking for the people of the world on climate change, and bad only when it leads to Brexit.

====== 877 ========

WHY IS NO ONE TALKING ABOUT HOW 9 BRITISH JUDGES – INCLUDING A LORD – WORK FOR THE UAE?

In a shameless attempt to throw a cloak of decency over his country’s discredited judicial system, the UAE ambassador to London yesterday had the gall to compare it to the one we have in Britain.

Sulaiman Hamid Almazroui said both nations had an “independent judiciary” where the government “does not dictate verdicts”.

He then had the temerity to tell us that Matthew Hedges, 31, has been found guilty because of “compelling evidence”, without even detailing any of what that was.

Whereas Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt says he has seen “absolutely no evidence” that the Durham PhD student was a spy.

If this “compelling evidence” is no more than Hedges’ signature on a piece of paper in Arabic, which he does not understand, then it is obviously worthless.

The ambassador’s claim that the government does not dictate the court’s rulings is also tosh.

A report in 2010 by the watchdog, Freedom House, found the judiciary is not independent, with court rulings subject to review by the political leadership.

All the judges and lawyers are political appointees.

So, ambassador Almazroui, where are the reporters who sit in on your court hearings or ask you questions the end of your press “conference” where you just read out a prepared statement?

As Matthew’s wife, Daniela Tejada, said afterwards: “The judicial system in the UAE and the UK cannot be compared.”

She also pointed out that her husband had been held in solitary confinement for more than five months without charge or a lawyer, and when he did receive consular access he was not able to “talk openly”.

Thankfully, such an abject failure of an open, fair and transparent system of justice is not tolerated in Britain.

Which makes it all the more surprising that the judicial system in the United Arab Emirates is stuffed with British judges, one of whom still sits in the House of Lords.

Bear in mind that the UAE has a toxic human rights record, a country where domestic violence against women is legal and regime critics are tortured and jailed without trial.

So what on earth is Lord David Hope of Craighead, head of the Crossbench peers in the House of Lords, doing out there – apart from making a tidy sum of money?

Ditto the Hon Sir Jeremy Cooke, Sir Richard Field, Sir David Steele, William Stone QC, the Hon Lord James McGhie, Sir Michael Burton and the Hon Sir Andrew Smith.

Last month Dame Elizabeth Gloster – who presided over the 2011 Abramovich-Berezovsky hearing – became the UK’s first female judge at the Abu Dhabi courts, following the retirement of Lord Saville.

All these people, either coming to the end of their careers or already retired, are registered to sit as judges in the financial courts either of Dubai or Abu Dhabi.

Lord McGhie was even registered to sit in the UAE while presiding over the Court of Session in Edinburgh, and Lord Hope has been appointed chief justice of the Abu Dhabi Global Market Courts.

Matthew Hedges was found guilty at Abu Dhabi’s Federal Court of Appeal and has the right to appeal before the Federal Supreme Court for re-trial.

But they are all part of the same discredited judicial system.

By having the cream of the British legal establishment running their courts, the Emiratis are able to present a fake cloak of respectability to the outside world.

It’s a bit like the authorities in Bahrain appointing UK-trained and £5m UK-funded “torture investigation units” – while continuing to sentence hotel workers to death on the basis of forced confessions.

It presents a veneer behind which the same atrocities are able to continue because it allows the Bahraini authorities to turn to their critics and say: “Well, the UK is keeping an eye on us now so how we can be misbehaving” – while continuing to do so.

By propping up the UAE’s judicial system, British judges are doing exactly the same disservice to people like Matthew Hedges.

Their presence means that people like Almazroui can turn and say: “C’mon, our justice system is just like yours!”

When he was at his lowest ebb in a Dubai prison, David Haigh reportedly wrote to one of the British judges, setting out the abusive treatment he was receiving.

After all, the former Leeds United boss thought, don’t judges have a legal and moral imperative to investigate allegations of mistreatment? Surely, he thought, a fellow Brit and a judge would help me out?

His cries for help were apparently ignored.

As he wrote afterwards: “Even as I was commencing a hunger strike, there was no recognition at all. Instead my torture continued, leaving me with fractured bones, teeth and eye damage and with severe post-traumatic stress disorder.”

Shame on those who ignored his pleas, and who work for a system which jails academics simply for asking uncomfortable questions.

Anthony Harwood is a former foreign editor of the Daily Mail

====== 878 ========

WILL VEGANS BULLY ME INTO CHANGING MY NAME NEXT?

Vegans are increasingly vociferous, and they’ve scored a PR triumph in York, where a pub formerly known as the Shoulder of Mutton for over 60 years has just been renamed the Heworth Inn, apparently in the hope of attracting non-meat-eating customers.

A third of the menu at the refurbished Heworth Inn features meat-free dishes, although they still serve steak. According to a manager at the pub, the name Shoulder of Mutton wasn’t just offputting to vegans: it could deter new brides from booking the premises (he cited the expression “mutton dressed as lamb”).

Are we really that sensitive these days? How can anyone could be offended by the word “mutton”, a tasty traditional meat from a lamb which has led a decent life? Does this mean that other pubs will follow suit and anywhere called the Cheshire Cheese (for example) might face a picket line, because some vegans reckon the dairy industry is an abomination?

The vegan crusade shows no signs of abating. Animal welfare campaigners have written to the residents of Wool in Dorset, offering them “cruelty-free vegan blankets” if they change the name of their village, claiming that it’s cruel to shear sheep. They seem to be ignorant of the fact that “wool” is a medieval word which has nothing to do with sheep, but derives from the term for water. My maiden name was Janet Bull – what cruelty-free products are on offer if I change it to Janet Soya Bean or Janet Beetroot?

====== 879 ========

THE TOP 10: QUICKEST RETURNS TO CABINET

Amber Rudd returned to the cabinet after 201 days, coincidentally leaving from and returning to the same jobs as David Blunkett 13 years earlier: from home secretary to work and pensions. Matt Smith asked: “What’s the shortest gap between exiting and re-entering the cabinet?” Here are (I think) the shortest gaps since 1900.

1. Clement Attlee, Herbert Morrison and Ernest Bevin, Labour ministers in the wartime coalition, resigned in May 1945 when the war (in Europe) and the coalition ended, and returned in July after winning the election, after 64 days. Thanks to Richard Olszewski.

2. James Brokenshire, out of the Northern Ireland Office to have treatment for lung cancer, and back as housing and local government secretary 112 days later in April this year (taking Sajid Javid’s post when he was promoted to replace Rudd). Thanks to Anthony Wells.

3. David Blunkett: 142 days in 2004-05. From Anthony Wells and Allan Holloway.

4. Peter Brooke resigned as Northern Ireland secretary after singing on Irish TV on the day seven were murdered by the IRA in 1992, but came back as national heritage secretary 165 days later. Thanks to James M.

5. Samuel Hoare resigned as foreign secretary over the secret deal with Pierre Laval, French foreign minister, to partition Abyssinia in December 1935. He returned as first lord of the admiralty 170 days later. Thanks to Allan Holloway.

6. Hugh Dalton resigned as chancellor of the exchequer after leaking Budget secrets on his way into the chamber in 1947; came back as chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster 200 days later. Allan Holloway again.

7. Amber Rudd: 201 days.

8. Edwin Montagu left cabinet in May 1915, and returned to the same post, chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, in January 1916 after 231 days. He then left cabinet again in December 1916, returning as secretary of state for India in July 1917 after 219 days. Unusual double case from Mr Memory.

