The cargo vessel was beginning its journey to the ISS carrying 2.5 tons of supplies to Gerst and his colleagues in outer space.

It launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.

In a Facebook post, Gerst gave details about what can be seen in the footage.

“00:07 – Rocket booster separation. 00:19 – Core stage separation. 00:34:05 – Core Stage starts burning in the atmosphere. 00:34:19 Progress separates from rocket.”

The launch marked the return of the Soyuz-FG rocket after its failed attempt to send a two man crew to the ISS in October.

Astronauts Nick Hague and Alexei Ovchinin came crashing back down to earth after being forced into a “ballistic descent” when a booster rocket malfunctioned.

====== 190 ========

HIGHEST XBOX GAMERSCORE IN THE WORLD RECORD ACHIEVED BY 'STALLION83'

A gamer known as Stallion83 has blasted through the record for the highest gamerscore in the world, becoming the first person to reach two million.

Gamerscore is an achievements system on Xbox that tracks how people are progressing in games. As players make their way through, they are given points – and most players will have a few thousand, or a little more.

But Stallion83, whose real name is Ray Cox, had already broken the record to be the first person to achieve one million points. And now he has done it again, becoming the first person in the world to get two million.

The moment came after 13 years of gaming and was broadcast around the world. Xbox even sent Mr Cox a special controller with the big number written on it – which was used to get over the milestone and then will be put away and not used again, he said.

The moment came on Halo, which just happens to be Mr Cox's favourite gaming series. He was playing Halo: The Master Chief Collection and realised that would be a good game to push him past the big number, he said.

Now Mr Cox said he isn't sure whether he will reach the three million milestone.

"This I don’t know," he told Guinness World Records. "Two million has taken 13 years now. I got my first achievement on 22 November 2005. So, I did the 2 million almost 13 years to the day. I’ll always love video games and achievements and I’ll always be playing and going for them."

====== 191 ========

BLACK FRIDAY 2018: WHATSAPP SCAM TRICKS PEOPLE LOOKING FOR DEALS

Cyber security experts have warned Black Friday shoppers to be extra vigilant when hunting for online deals and discounts, after scam messages began circulating on WhatsApp.

Fraudsters are using the popular messaging app to spread fake links to vouchers for supermarkets and other retailers, with some messages encouraging users to share the link with 10 people or more in order to receive the offer.

But the deal is not real and the message is intended only to make sure the link gets shared around – and then trick people into clicking it, exposing people to malware and other attacks.

"Black Friday is a minefield for shoppers and presents a huge opportunity for cyber criminals to take advantage of unaware Brits," Raj Samani, chief scientist and fellow at the online security firm McAfee, said in an emailed statement to The Independent.

"Consumers should remember that if an advert for a deal looks too good to be true, it probably is – think before you click on a link to a discount. The same goes for emails and messages you receive through platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. If a great discount lands in your inbox, you are best off to check out the site directly rather than clicking on any links."

Figures from McAfee reveal the malware threat to consumers doubled in 2017 during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping period, while the ransomware risk increased by more than a third.

A recent report by threat intelligence firm RiskIQ found that the brand names of leading retailers were used in malicious links in order to trick people into sharing their login credentials or credit card details with cyber criminals.

"With more people than ever poised to partake in this year’s November shopping frenzy, attackers will capitalize by using the brand names of leading e-tailers to exploit users looking for Black Friday deals and coupons by creating fake mobile apps and landing pages to fool consumers into downloading malware," the report stated.

A spokesperson for WhatsApp was not immediately available for comment.

Law enforcement agencies in the UK and elsewhere warned about the risks facing shoppers at this time of year.

"Don't click links or downloads in emails from people you don't know," Essex Police announced. "Online fraudsters use #BlackFriday to take the opportunity to scam victims during the busy online period.

The proliferation of online scams on Black Friday also prompted the FBI to post a warning to people in the US about the dangers of online fraud.

"'Tis the season for holiday scams," the FBI tweeted. "Protect yourself this #BlackFriday & #CyberMonday. Be aware of scams and report any suspicious financial fraud or internet crime to the Internet Crime Complaint Center."

====== 192 ========

VALDEMAR POULSEN: GOOGLE DOODLE HONOURS DANE WHO PIONEERED SOUND RECORDING

Early recording pioneer Valdemar Poulsen was born on this day in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1869.

Poulsen - celebrated in today's Google Doodle - is responsible for developing the first magnetic wire recorder in 1898, a device known as the telegraphone, establishing a principle that would provide the basis for much of the pre-digital electronic tech still in use until the turn of this century, from answering machines to cassettes, VHS tapes and floppy discs.

The son of a Supreme Court judge and formerly a medical student who changed careers to work for the Copenhagen Telephone Company, Poulsen experienced his eureka moment when he strung a steel piano wire between two walls, able to record sound using a microphone when he slid an electromagnet down its course. This could then be replayed through a telephone's earpiece.

The principle was incorporated into a cylindrical electromagnetic phonograph capable of recording up to 30 minutes of speech.

Poulsen and his assistant Peder Oluf Pedersen quickly obtained a patent, their innovation the precursor to all magnetic tape recorders that would follow.

In 1900 Poulsen attended the Exposition Universelle in Paris, where he demonstrated his device by recording the voice of Austrian emperor Franz Josef - our earliest surviving magnetic recording - taking home the Grand Prix for his trouble.

He followed this breakthrough with the invention of the first continuous wave transmitter in 1903, dubbed the Poulsen Arc, which would be used in the earliest radio broadcasting stations and enabled communication between Lyngby in the Copehagen suburbs and Newcastle in the UK, effectively bridging the North Sea with the aid of 100-foot masts.

The Valdemar Poulsen Gold Medal is awarded each year in his honour by the Danish Academy of Technical Sciences for outstanding research carried out in the field of radio.

====== 193 ========

BITCOIN PRICE – LIVE: LATEST UPDATES AS CRYPTOCURRENCY MARKET COLLAPSES TO NEW 2018 LOW

Bitcoin's recent run of stability came to a dramatic end in November, when a cryptocurrency market crash saw billions of dollars wiped from its value in the space of just a few days.

The collapse is the latest in a year of falling prices for the world's most valuable cryptocurrency, having traded close to $20,000 in December 2017.

Ethereum, ripple and bitcoin cash have all been hit by the latest price falls, as the notoriously volatile cryptocurrency market continues to fall to new 2018 lows.

All the latest news, analysis and predictions will be updated regularly here.

Please allow a moment for the live blog to load...

====== 194 ========

WHY THE 2018 BITCOIN PRICE CRASH IS JUST A 'BLIP NOT A BUBBLE BURSTING'

The price of bitcoin has often been compared to history's biggest bubbles – Dutch Tulip mania in the 17th century, the Mississippi Bubble in the 18th century and the UK Canal and Railway mania in the 19th century – but perhaps the most popular comparison is the dot-com bubble of 2000.

In the space of five years, it seemed any company with a '.com' after its name provoked a feeding frenzy from investors, which led to an artificial inflation in their value. When the bubble inevitably burst, the implosion saw more than $1.7 trillion wiped from their market value, just months after the peak.

Since December 2017, the market cap of bitcoin has followed a similar trajectory, albeit on a much smaller scale. Two recent flash crashes in the space of a week have taken bitcoin's total losses above $250 billion, representing a 77 per cent drop in less than 12 months.

But despite the similar pattern, market analysts believe it is erroneous to draw a direct comparison between the two.

"I wouldn't compare the current state of the crypto market to the dot-com bubble," Angel Versetti, CEO of the blockchain technology firm Ambrosus, told The Independent. "While there are similarities in terms of overvalued new technology startups with unproven or unsustainable business models that were incessant in both dot-com and crypto, the sheer scale of crypto and dot-com businesses are not comparable. I do not believe we are, or were, anywhere close to a bubble with cryptocurrency.

"We are experiencing a strong correction, but the bubble has not formed yet. All the bankers and financiers jumping onto the crypto train signal that the bubble is yet to come. I think when all cryptocurrencies and tokens will be worth 15-20 trillion USD, that will be a bubble."

Bubbles can only be identified in retrospect, so it may be too soon to call the latest price collapse a bubble bursting. Looking at bitcoin's volatile history, the falls from the heights of late 2017 represent only the fourth biggest price adjustment in bitcoin's 10-year history.

Cryptocurrency experts also note that one of the biggest casualties of the dot-com bubble was Amazon, which saw its shares fall from $300 in 1998 to $6 in 2000.

Amazon's share price is now more than $1,500, having become only the second company in history to reach a market value of more than $1 trillion. This is thanks to the fact that it was fundamentally a great business idea and was eventually able to fulfil its potential.

"Of course commentators have drawn comparisons between the current bear market and the dot-com bubble of the 1990s," said Matthew Newton, an analyst at the online investment platform eToro.

"While this is inevitable, I'd venture to suggest it's not particularly useful – it's a bit like proclaiming the end of the FTSE 100 at the end of 2008. One of the benefits of a bear market is it weeds out people who are looking to make a quick buck, and aren't interested in the underlying technology. Those who understand the technology and see its benefits tend to stick around, adding value to the market."

In order for the benefits of the underlying technology to be realised and the price of bitcoin to stabilise and eventually rise again, many within the cryptocurrency industry have called for greater regulatory oversight in order to boost investor confidence.

"Having oversight of the cryptocurrency 'Wild West' will legitimise, and subsequently stablise the industry, which will allow it to reach the next step of maturity," said Herbert Sim, chief commercial officer of the cryptocurrency exchange Cryptology.

"Institutions and governments alike are beginning to accept that cryptocurrencies are likely to become an integral part of the financial system. Regardless of price moves, it's clear that the cryptocurrency community is here to stay, with institutions offering new modes of trading such as options, futures and trading on margins.

"The last few months have seen the beginnings of clear initiatives from the FCA and SEC to build out a coherent policy – it's just a shame it's taken this long for them to get on board."

====== 195 ========

BLACK FRIDAY BARGAIN-HUNTERS ARE 'PRIME PICKINGS' FOR CYBER CRIMINALS, WARN INTELLIGENCE CHIEFS

Shoppers are “prime pickings” for cyber criminals during Black Friday sales, the UK’s intelligence service has warned.

The rush to snap up deals puts bargain-hunters at greater risk of “malicious” threats, said the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC).

The agency – a wing of the GCHQ intelligence service that deals with online security - has issued advice on how to shop safely.

Shoppers are expected to spend £10.4bn in this year's Black Friday sales, according to retail analysts at Global Data.

“Cyber criminals have a field day at this time of year because they know your guard is a little lower as you rush to bag the bargains,” said Kate Sinnott, the NCSC’s head of public engagement.

She added: “Your inbox is probably full of promotional emails promising the most incredible deals. And when this is the norm, it becomes hard to differentiate real bargains from the dodgy ones.”

Ms Sinnott warned some of the scams were “very sophisticated”.

How to shop safely online National Cyber Security Centre's tips on avoiding scams Install the latest software and app updates

Secure important accounts with strong passwords

Turn on two-step authentication

Use a password manager

Be wary of links in emails and texts

Only fill in the mandatory details of forms

Close browser 'when things don't feel right'

Security firm RiskIQ warned last week.that criminals were seeking to cash in on the annual shopping bonanza by making fraudulent mobile apps using the brand names of leading retailers.

The fake apps are designed to fool people into sharing their passwords or credit card details in the hope of finding the best Black Friday deals.

NCSC said it had dealt with 557 “cyber incidents” in the past 12 months and 1,167 since the agency was set up two years ago. It said it wanted to people to share its tips on staying safe as part of a national “cyber chat” on Black Friday.

“It’s vital that knowledge is shared,” said Ian Levy, technical director of the agency. “Staying safe online doesn’t require deep technical knowledge, and we want the whole country to know that the NCSC speaks the same language as them. It’s vital that knowledge is shared, and that’s why we’re encouraging everybody to have a cyber chat. With so many of the UK shopping online, we want to see these tips shared from classrooms and scout groups to family dinner tables and old people’s homes.”

Ciaran Martin, chief executive at NCSC, warned business leaders in September that companies needed to be on guard for "elite hackers" targeting customer data.

"It is not speculation and it is not scare-mongering," he said.

Data breaches cost firms an average of £3m, according a report by IBM.

====== 196 ========

CRIME

====== 197 ========

BITCOIN BLACK FRIDAY 2018: DEALS AND GIVEAWAYS SPREAD ONLINE AS CRYPTOCURRENCY HITS 12-MONTH LOW

The annual shopping bonanza that is Black Friday is here, and for the sixth year in a row it’s also coming to holders of the cryptocurrency bitcoin.

The unofficial start to the Christmas shopping period comes at a turbulent time for bitcoin, coming at the end of a week of dramatic price drops, though this hasn’t put off online retailers hoping to cash in on the cryptocurrency.

“While most consumers are flooding into supermarkets and retail stores, there’s a quiet revolution brewing in the corners of the internet,” states the Bitcoin Black Friday website, which says it will publish all the best deals from merchants today.

“Bitcoin Black Friday is a one day event that brings together bitcoin merchants and bitcoin users. Merchants simply list their bitcoin-exclusive deals, and users can check out all the deals in one place. This year, we’re focussed on quality merchants that care about the bitcoin community.”

The plummeting price of bitcoin in recent days has led to some cryptocurrency analysts joking that bitcoin has gone on sale, just in time for Black Friday.

Bitcoin has fallen in price by around $2,000 over the last week, marking the latest losses in a turbulent year for the world’s leading cryptocurrency.

Nigel Green, founder and CEO of financial services firm deVere Goup, recently said the recent price crash has created a buyers’ market.

“Savvy investors understand that digital currencies are the future of money and, as such, they will be capitalising on the lower prices in order to build their portfolios and shore-up their positions,” Mr Green said.

“Prices might fall further over the next few days, but we can expect a long-term upward trajectory for the crypto sector.”

Some bitcoin exchanges are even offering bitcoin giveaways in an effort to entice people to their platforms.

Isle of Man-based exchange CoinCorner is giving away £20 of bitcoin to new customers starting Thursday, 22 November, so long as they register and buy £100 worth of the cryptocurrency.

“Our mission is to make buying bitcoin quick and easy for everyone,” CoinCorner co-founder Danny Scott wrote in an email to The Independent. “We are delighted to provide new cryptocurrency users with a fantastic offer that will give them a great first experience into the world of bitcoin.”

Bitcoin payment processor BitPay, which has seen huge payment spikes on its network on Black Friday in previous years, has even gone so far as to release a song for this year’s event.

Set to the tune of Rebecca Black’s ‘Friday’, lyrics include: “They don’t take cryptocurrency, they should take cryptocurrency, excuse me sir, what currency will you take?”

The chorus concludes: “Everyone’s adopting bitcoin, don’t be a weirdo... They won’t accept my BitPay, what’s the point of Black Friday sales fiat losers?”

====== 198 ========

ASKING SIRI FOR INFORMATION ABOUT DONALD TRUMP SHOWS EXPLICIT IMAGE AFTER WIKIPEDIA EDIT

Siri doesn't appear to think highly of Donald Trump.

At least the virtual assistant didn't on Thanksgiving, when asking about the president showed an image of a penis instead.

The error seems to be the result of someone editing Mr Trump's Wikipedia page and inserting the image. That meant it pulled through when Siri accessed the article to show more information – showing the explicit picture to the vast number of people who use the voice assistant on their iPhones.

Apple uses Wikipedia to answer a vast range of questions when they are put to Siri. That allows it to know about public figures and other notable bits of knowledge, and allows people to ask how old or tall someone is, for instance.

But anyone who wanted to ask how old Donald Trump is over the Thanksgiving holiday was given something they were not expecting at all, when the image appeared.

Donald Trump's Wikipedia page – like those of other controversial public figures – is protected, meaning that it cannot be edited by just anyone. The history of the edits can be seen on the page itself, and the numerous people who made the change have now been banned, an editor told The Verge.

It is far from the first time that Wikipedia has been used to make voice assistants like Siri read out questionable information. Last year, when Burger King ran a campaign that forced people's Google Home assistants to start talking, somebody edited the Whopper's Wikipedia page so that it said the burger contained "cyanide" and is "the worst hamburger product" it has ever made.

And it is not the first time Siri has made an embarrassing mistake in response to questions. Last month, it seemed to be convinced that the Bulgarian national anthem was Despacito – a problem that didn't have quite such a clear explanation, and the reason for which is still unclear.

====== 199 ========

JOHN LEWIS WEBSITE DOWN: BLACK FRIDAY DEALS AND OFFERS UNAVAILABLE AS ONLINE SHOP SUFFERS OUTAGE

John Lewis's website has broken in the middle of Black Friday.

The British retailer – which like just about every major shop in the UK and US is running a series of deals and offers to mark the day – seems to have been overwhelmed by the interest and its website has broken down.

"Sorry about the wait, please try again soon," a message on the site reads.

"It's our Black Friday event so we're busier than usual," an explanation continues. It gives people an easy way to refresh the page and reminds them that John Lewis's offers are available in its shops, too.

The company is offering a wide variety of deals on everything from televisions to smart home gadgets, and clothes to furniture.

Just as it does the rest of the year, John Lewis keeps its commitment to being never knowingly undersold on Black Friday. That means that it will match deals from rivals as they go up during the shopping day.

John Lewis is far from the only retailer to be hit by problems during the major shopping day. Both Facebook and Amazon, for instance, had problems with their platform – companies were unable to post ads on Facebook in the approach to the day, and Amazon suffered a data leak that made customers' information available online.

Cyber security experts recommend that users are careful over the day, with a wide variety of criminals and cyber attacks laying in wait to catch people searching for deals.

====== 200 ========

RAINBOW SIX SIEGE DEVELOPERS WILL ROLL BACK CONTROVERSIAL 'CENSORSHIP' UPDATE, UBISOFT ANNOUNCES

Rainbow Six Siege players around the world will not have to play a censored version of the game after a major U-turn by developers Ubisoft.

The company announced earlier this month that it would be making substantial changes to the game's look to allow it to be played in China. Those included getting rid of symbols and decoration that used skulls, blood that was cleaned up and the disappearance of gambling machines.

Despite assurances that the alterations were entirely superficial and would not affect gameplay, fans were immediately angry that such significant changes were being made wherever they were in the world. Though the alterations were in response to demands from the Chinese government, they were rolled out globally.

Now Ubisoft has listened to the anger and announced it will be reversing that decision, reverting the changes and bringing back the old look.

It said that it had made the decision because it had been "following the conversation with our community closely over the past couple of weeks, alongside regular discussions with our internal Ubisoft team, and we want to ensure that the experience for all our players, especially those that have been with us from the beginning, remains as true to the original artistic intent as possible".

The controversy has been unfolding since the very beginning of the month, when Ubisoft announced in an update that it would be making "aesthetic changes" to the game.

"We are currently working towards preparing Rainbow Six Siege for expansion into Asian territories," the developers wrote. "As such, there will be some adjustments made to our maps and icons to ensure compliance. None of these changes will have an impact on gameplay."

The same post explained that developers had chosen to make one global version of the game – rather than a censored and uncensored one – so that work didn't need to be duplicated when future changes were made.

The alterations will be rolled back from now, Ubisoft said, but some may still be left behind. "We will carefully remove them all to the best of our ability considering the short timeframe and with the lowest impact on the season’s launch date and our build stability," it wrote.

====== 201 ========

FALLOUT 76 REVIEW: CAN FEEL MORE LIKE A TASK THAN A GLORIOUS ADVENTURE

Fallout 76 is a lonely place. Emerging from your vault, two decades after nuclear war has devastated the Earth, your task to reclaim the ashes of what’s left is an inglorious one. There is no one to celebrate your toil, no one to commemorate you as a hero. Bethesda’s prequel to its Fallout series has taken the increasingly popular route of the online multiplayer – the irony is just how isolating an experience that can be.

Each map hosts a maximum of 24 people, which means chance encounters with other settlers are a rarity. Even with several hours invested both into the game and its beta release, I crossed paths with a handful of them at most, and all were friendly. Most of the time, you just give eachother a wave using the game’s emote system and carry on your merry way. PvP does exist, but no one seemed interested, since there’s not a huge amount to be gained from it outside of a little extra loot.

Plus, combat only works when both players agree to it, with a hefty wanted badge slapped on your character if you kill someone who didn’t retaliate. It’s a great idea to help prevent the harassment of players (otherwise known as griefing), but it also makes PvP seem like more effort than it’s worth.

Furthermore, because you have to complete each quest individually, even if you’re working together as a team, there’s not a huge amount of encouragement from Fallout 76 to actually take advantage of the multiplayer system, either by bringing in friends or trying to team up with strangers. I, quite simply, didn’t feel the need to do so in the end. And I imagine a lot of players will be in a similar position.

Although solo questing has its difficulties – it’s easy to find yourself outnumbered and overwhelmed by hordes of enemies many levels above you – it’s entirely feasible.

That is, if you’re not bothered by all the isolation. The most controversial decision of Fallout 76 is the complete lack of NPCs, with the only humans you’ll encounter being other players. It, arguably, fits the post-apocalypse theme perfectly and makes for an occasionally haunting, oppressive playing experience.

But, on the downside, it dramatically impacts the flow of its storytelling, as every direction and narrative beat must be delivered by tape, radio signal, computer, or robot. You’re robbed of dialogue trees or moral choices, and of the feeling like you have any real, discernable impact on the world you’ve entered into.

Elsewhere, Fallout 76 is very much a copy of its predecessor, Fallout 4; albeit a copy that’s swapped the dreary, endless wastelands of Massachusetts for a verdant West Virginian landscape. It’s worth the occasional pause in your travels to take it all in, especially as the sun starts to pierce the through the fog, and you see how far the region’s rolling hills really stretch. It’s an undeniably beautiful game, reminding you this is, after all, the same publisher that produced Skyrim.

The mechanics of Fallout 4 are improved upon in some ways, devalued in others. The VATS system, which used to pause the game and allow you to target certain body parts on enemies, is now essentially useless. Without the ability to slow time in a multiplayer game, all VATS offers is a one-off hit based on a wildly alternating percentage.

When it comes to the widely discussed bugs, I may have been quite lucky. Playing on PS4, I was largely saved from any absurdity, outside of a few buildings failing to load and some enemies with bizarre patterns of movement. More frustrating were the regular dips in framerate, combined with random freezes and complete crashes, the latter resulting in lost progress.

On the brighter side, the perk cards are a major improvement, making it much easier to decide on the priorities for your character. You can choose to develop lethal melee skills or simply lighten the load you’re carrying. The C.A.M.P. – or Construction and Assembly Mobile Platform – is very similar in design to Fallout 4’s settlements, but smoothes the process by giving you your own personal base you can set up anywhere on the map and move with ease.

I also, admittedly, quite enjoyed the new emphasis on survival mechanics, thanks to the introduction of both a thirst and hunger bar, if only as a way to aid in the post-apocalyptic immersion. The only major issue is that it divides your inventory between your survival essentials and your armoury.

Combine that with the junk you’re driven to collect for crafting purposes, and you’ll constantly be dealing with being over encumbered. It’s a frustrating issue that can often leave you feeling discouraged from exploring the ruins and searching for new loot.

Playing Fallout 76, as a fan of the Fallout series, forces you into a small conflict of self. You’re left to weigh its bugs, its disappointments, and its frustrations against the steady promise this vast, beautiful landscape holds over you. It’s not bad enough to move you to put the controller down, and I already know that I’ll continue to play it and explore its possibilities, but there are moments when your duty to rebuild society feels a little more like a task than a glorious adventure.

====== 202 ========

POKÉMON LET'S GO REVIEW: SWITCH REMAKE REFRESHES A WORN FORMULA WITHOUT BREAKING IT

When Nintendo announced Pokémon Let’s Go Eevee and Pikachu, fans of the series were left puzzled. Are these games - which heavily borrow mechanics from the world-conquering phone game Pokémon Go - a soulless cash-grab? Or are they actually a much-needed remix to the tried, tested and tired formula that has been repackaged a dozen times since debuting on Game Boy in 1996?

With the Elite Four under my belt, I can confirm that, while the beloved games company may capitalise on Pokémon Go’s success, these new games certainly have soul – and a lot of it.

Let’s Go is a re-imagining of the series’ most beloved instalment, Yellow. Sure, Professor Oak sets players that same mission to master all eight gyms and catch all 151 Pokémon, enough has changed that Let’s Go feels very different.

Controversially, wild Pokémon encounters are now a thing of the past, replaced by the Pokémon Go-like system which sees players throw Pokéballs and berries at creatures rather than battle them. Gone is the randomness, as you can see each Pokémon walking around.

Gone, too, are HMs (those moves you were forced to teach Pokémon that could only be removed by a “move delete”), replaced by special techniques that - depending on the version you choose - Eevee or Pikachu learns. Your chosen ally, meanwhile, remains atop your head at all times, even if not a member of your battling party.

Speaking of your party, computers where you once stored Pokémon are gone. Instead, you carry around all your pocket monsters at all times – but, as standard for the series, only six can be used for battle. And yes, battles are still around. They are, however, limited to just being against trainers (and the occasional legendary bird/Snorlax).

On top of that, the story has been (minutely) tweaked, the Safari Zone has gone (replaced by a Pokémon Go tie-in park) and the game has been given a beautiful 3-D make-over (it’s amazing how different things look in 3-D to how you imagine them).

With all these changes in mind, I must admit that I was left hugely unimpressed by the first few hours. Discovering each new feature felt like Game Freak using “dream eater” on my nostalgia. Most disheartening of all, the game felt easy – especially when compared to the challenging originals. (My annoyance peaked when it became apparent you could a catch Bellsprout before taking on first gym leader Brock, making his Onix and Geodude a breeze.)

Thankfully, soon enough, these fears subsided. While initially I wanted to avoid wild Pokémon encounters like the plague, they proved necessary to progressing. And when I embraced these Pokémon Go-esque encounters, something clicked. This was actually fun – more fun than grinding Digletts to evolve a Squirtle.

Throwing Pokéballs (which sees you throw the Joy-Con like a Pokéball) requires less skill than battles but does demand a certain knack. Seeing Pokémon wandering around means you’re more inclined to avoid annoying Zubat and actually find Kangaskhan.

Hand-in-hand with having all these Pokémon at your disposal – thanks to the new computer system – you I found myself playing around with a more diverse team than ever before.

These changes also mean that, for the first time since Gold/Silver, catching them all feels very possible. And with only 151 to actually catch, plus the ability to bring aboard your Pokémon Go collection, it no longer seems like an almost insurmountable mountain to climb.

Of course, there are multiple things that can also make your experience much easier. At any moment, even midway through a battle, a friend can join you – so battles become two-on-one. The ability to bring your catches from Pokémon Go makes the climb to 151 much easier. However, these are optional. Should you choose to play through the game without help, and without Pokémon Go, you’re looking at a game harder than the recent Sun and Moon instalments.

There are still other low points; on occasion, Team Rocket encounters go on too long. There are too many Rattata. You are given the main trio (Bulbasaur, Squirtle and Charmander) too early on. If you have Eevee (like me) and dislike Eevee (like me) you’re going to be infuriated by how much Eevee there is (and how you can’t evolve him/her).

Remarkably, though, Let’s Go Eevee and Pikachu manages to remix the worn formula without breaking it, serving up a nostalgic game that feels like classic Pokémon. Here’s hoping the next core Switch game builds on this for a completely fresh adventure.

====== 203 ========

LATEST BUSINESS INFORMATION, NEWS AND EVENTS

====== 204 ========

SHELL AND ENI’S SCANDAL-PLAGUED OIL DEAL WILL DEPRIVE NIGERIA OF $6BN

Nigeria will miss out on $6bn (£4.7bn) in a scandal-plagued deal with Shell and Italian energy giant Eni for one of West Africa’s most promising oil fields, leading industry experts have concluded.

The oil companies’ 2011 purchase is mired in a huge corruption case because most of the £1bn they paid for the offshore oil block ultimately ended up being paid as bribes. The Nigerian government kept just a £164m “signature bonus”.

Research by Resources for Development Consulting, a group of economists, lawyers and auditors, has now found that Nigeria was worse off under the deal than previously thought.

Its public purse also missed out on £4.6bn in shared profits from the oil field because the agreement was extraordinarily favourable to the European oil companies.

This is more than double the combined education and healthcare budget of Nigeria, a country in which, despite vast oil wealth, 87 million people live in extreme poverty.

After years of denials, Shell admitted last year that it knew much of the money initially paid for the block, known as OPL245, would pass to convicted money launderer Dan Etete, who took a cut for himself with much of the rest paid to well-connected officials.

Under the contract, just 41 per cent of future revenues from the oil block will accrue to Nigeria, according to the report commissioned by NGO Global Witness and anti-corruption campaigners at Re:Common, the Corner House and HEDA.

Typically, 65 to 85 per cent of profits from such deals go to the government that granted the licence, under what’s known as a production sharing contract (PSC).

But with OPL245, Shell and Eni dispensed with the PSC structure and effectively cut Nigeria out of all future profits. Instead the government will receive only tax revenues.

Internal emails reveal that state oil firm Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) was of the “strong view” that one clause could be illegal.

It violated the terms on which PSCs are based, which dictate that the “government have both a say and a take in the block”, NNPC said.

It added that a “0 per cent royalty” combined with no right to acquire an equity stake “are likely to be a bitter pill” for the Nigerian government. It urged Shell to consider changes.

During contract negotiations, Malcolm Brinded, then Shell’s head of exploration and production, informed fellow managers that the deal was unprecedented.

He wrote: “The solution proposed leaves NNPC without any economic interest in the licence – a first in deepwater [offshore oil drilling] and obviously carrying some longer-term risks.”

Despite these concerns, Shell managed to persuade members of the government to come round.

Nigeria’s attorney general (AG) at the time, Mohammed Adoke – who was negotiating the deal with Shell, is alleged to have been one of the bribe recipients.

Shell’s legal counsel in Nigeria wrote to senior colleagues in February 2011: “The AG indicated strongly that he wanted the escrow agreement concluded this week.”

Internal emails demonstrate that senior Shell employees knew about planned bribes.

In 2009, two Shell vice presidents were briefed that Mr Etete – the former oil minister who while in office had awarded OPL245 to a company he controlled – would keep only a fraction of the money Shell and Eni were offering because “the rest goes in paying people off”.

According to Italian prosecutors, around £406m was withdrawn in cash and delivered to key officials including then oil minister Diezani Alison-Madueke and former president Goodluck Jonathan. The amount would weigh about five tonnes in $100 bills. The pair have not been charged by prosecutors in the Milan case.

Unfavourable terms

Under the 2011 agreement Nigeria will receive an estimated £7.6bn over the field’s lifespan as opposed to more than £12.2bn under terms proposed in 2006. The calculations are based on Eni’s estimates of 550 million barrels of recoverable oil in the block at a price of $70 a barrel.

The analysis is likely to underestimate the total benefit to the companies because a later estimate from Shell suggested there could be 875 million barrels in the field. The figures also do not include revenues from gas.

The analysis is the latest development in a scandal that has dogged Shell for years.

A string of former Shell executives and current and former Eni executives as well as the two companies themselves, are on trial in Milan over the purchase of rights to the block.

Two middlemen in the deal, Nigerian Emeka Obi and Italian Gianluca Di Nardo, were convicted of corruption in September and a judge ordered the seizure of more than £93.6m from the pair.

A spokesperson for Shell said: “We are aware of the latest claims from Global Witness and have responded to them directly, however since this matter is before the tribunal of Milan it would not be appropriate for us to comment in detail.

“Issues that are under consideration as part of a trial process should be adjudicated in court and we do not wish to interfere with this process.

“We maintain that the settlement was a fully legal transaction with the federal government of Nigeria and Eni and, based on our review of the prosecutor of Milan’s file and all of the information and facts available to us, we do not believe that there is a basis to convict Shell or any of its former employees.”

Eni rejected “any allegation of impropriety or irregularity” and said that in light of the trial it would be inappropriate to comment.

The company said “the technical and contractual assumptions adopted as the basis for the analysis appear to be partial and inaccurate, if not misleading”.

====== 205 ========

TRAINS OMBUDSMAN SERVICE CREATED AS LAST RESORT FOR PASSENGERS MAKING COMPLAINTS

At the end of a year of turmoil for many rail passengers, the industry has appointed an independent ombudsman to resolve disputes.

Train companies say the move was designed to “to build greater confidence in their services and deliver on their commitment to increase customer satisfaction”.

Passengers must first complain to the train operator, or to Network Rail in disputes about services provided at stations it manages.

The ombudsman will serve as the last resort in what the industry believes is 1 per cent of unresolved cases – when the traveller is unhappy with the final response from a rail company (known as a “deadlock letter”) or if their complaint has not been resolved within around eight weeks of the rail company receiving it.

The service is free, and the ombudsman has the power to make rail companies act if it identifies failings.

“That means it will no longer be possible for a complaint to remain deadlocked between a rail company and a customer,” says the Rail Delivery Group (RDG), representing train operators and Network Rail.

The RDG’s managing director of customer experience, Jacqueline Starr, said: “This new nationwide process will put the customer at the heart of resolving complaints and give them even greater confidence that we’re doing as much as we can to get to a fair outcome.”

The service will apply only to problems encountered from 26 November 2018 onwards; passengers who are embroiled in disputes about the botched introduction this summer of new timetables in southeast and northwest England will not be able to use it.

The newly appointed rail minister, Andrew Jones, said: “This is a significant step forward for passengers’ rights.

“Rail firms must take this opportunity to improve their complaints process and to increase customer satisfaction.”

The service is provided by Dispute Resolution Ombudsman, which describes itself as “an independent, not-for-profit, government-approved organisation set up to help resolve retail disputes”.

Its chief executive, Kevin Grix, said: “With our legal foundation and decades of experience, we are well placed to support rail companies to better listen to their customers and help to improve their services.”

Alex Hayman, managing director of public markets for Which?, called it “a wakeup call for train companies to step up and start delivering good customer service when things go wrong”.

Since The Independent called for more realistic compensation for long delays, readers have come forward citing examples of minuscule recompense.

Caroline Hornberger said: “I got 66p back on my season ticket for being half an hour late.” And Claire Differ reported: “I made a claim for a 45-minute delay and I got a whopping 88p back.

“Not much of an incentive for the train companies to get it right in the first place.”

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 206 ========

HOUSING CRISIS: WHAT THE UK CAN LEARN FROM GERMANY'S COOPERATIVE HOUSING MOVEMENT

Dirko Goebel is the last tenant left in a magnificent corner apartment block in Leipzig. A spiral staircase leads to abandoned rooms, revealing wooden floors, tall ceilings, and ceramic coal heaters stacked in corners, hinting at the building’s former glory.

Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in this part of former East Germany, the building has been used for raves and art projects as well as by squatters as successive landlords failed to keep it in good repair. Now buckets gather leaks, tape holds together cracked water pipes and ceilings are scarred by damp and mould.

But Goebel doesn’t want to leave. He has made his home in one of the lower floors, fitted a small kitchen by hand and built a mezzanine bed to make space for sofas and his books. Thanks to Germany’s tenancy laws, which are stronger than in the UK, he had the right to keep living in his apartment even after the landlord wanted to sell it. Over the years, he continued to refuse offers of money to move out, stalling a potential sale. Last year, in part because he had refused, a housing organisation called the Solidarity Co-operative was able to purchase the building.

Goebel is delighted. Previous tenants had imagined buying and renovating the building to live in, but none were so well organised. In early 2018, the Solidarity Co-operative, or SoWo Leipzig, teamed up with the Edith Maryon Foundation to secure the building for €1.65 million, promising to secure Goebel’s tenancy in the deal.

Goebel is now part of a working group organising a renovation that will provide permanently affordable housing for around 40 people, plus space for shops or other commercial units on the ground floor. As a tenant-owner, Goebel will have a hand in rebuilding the apartments from scratch and a say in how they are run.

“I refused the money because my heart is in this house,” Goebel says. “I want to stay there.”

Housing co-operatives are having a renaissance in Germany. Since the reunification of East and West Germany in 1990, a wave of co-managed and co-owned housing has been born of protest movements, tenants struggles and squatting. Some of these movements have formalised. The biggest of these is Mietshäuser Syndikat, founded in 1992, which now combines more than 100 housing initiatives all over Germany.

Unlike in the UK, German tenants cannot easily be evicted. In the UK, most contracts are six to 12 months and a landlord can choose to evict the tenant at the end of this period, without giving a reason. In England, this has created a rental market where people move on average every 2.5 years. In Germany, tenancies last an average of 11 years. German tenants also benefit from lower average rents and a “rent-brake”, which prevents landlords from unconditionally raising rents in between tenancies.

These controls exist in tandem with a long tradition of co-operative housing. The idea for co-operative ownership came from the UK but it has flourished in Germany. Around 15 per cent of all housing is co-operatively owned in Leipzig. Much of it was owned and managed by the socialist state after the Second World War.

Sign against repression: House project in Leipzig-Lindenau on Vimeo.

Goebel was born in Leipzig in 1976, and grew up in a worker’s co-operative for housing organised by the socialist East German government. He remembers community groups organised to clean common areas, sports teams that formed from each housing block, and medals for the tidiest street.

It wasn’t all good: while new parents in London might put their children’s names down for nursery at birth, East German parents would put their children’s names down for a car, to have a chance of getting one by the time they were old enough to drive. But the history has created a precedent that means some German residents, unlike many in England, are familiar with the idea of sharing responsibility for maintaining and improving communal areas in collective housing.

“Living and working together was the basic idea of socialism,” Goebel says. “It was missing for many years. Now it comes back as a conscious choice.”

Co-operative housing is becoming more popular as rent goes up sharply in many German cities. As recently as 2011, Leipzig was the cheapest of Germany's big cities in which to rent an apartment, at an average of €5,400 per year. By 2017, the same size apartment cost an average of €7,560. Chancellor Angela Merkel has said her government will prioritise building new homes and limiting rent rises.

Tobias Bernet moved from Switzerland to Leipzig in 2008 to learn about alternative ownership of vacant buildings when there were still plenty to choose from. He says: “There was a window of opportunity when the housing prices were low and there was a critical mass of people willing to do something.”

Georg-Schwarz-Strasse was once been a busy shopping street, but had become a no-go zone by the time Bernet came to town. Many buildings were deserted. With support from local authorities, residents started buying buildings for cheap and renovating them. At first, they formed a company to buy the buildings, because it was easier to set up than a co-operative. But after a co-operative was formed, it flourished. The group now has 120 members and two apartment buildings, with plans to buy more. The more buildings in the co-operative, Bernet says, the more they can benefit from economies of scale for renovations and other services.

Though the building at Georg-Schwarz-Strasse has been secured with a loan from the Edith Maryon Foundation, the group must raise a total of €2.5 million to cover the lease and the renovation.

Laura Röllmann is a PhD psychology student and a member of the steering group managing the renovation of the apartment building on Georg-Schwarz-Strasse. She has been part of the team raising the deposit through shares and small loans from friends, family and supporters. One day, she will join Goebel as an owner-tenant in the building. “I’m doing it because I think housing is a human right – it shouldn’t be private property,” she says. “The co-operative concept isn’t alien to people here, which helps.”

Once the group has raised the remainder of a €600,000 deposit, they will approach an ethical bank, such as Triodos, which has a history of supporting collective housing projects. Manuel Ehlers, a relationship manager for sustainable properties at Triodos in Berlin, says the bank finances projects like this one as part of a broader belief in sustainability over the relentless pursuit of profit and growth. “We strive to finance only projects with a positive impact on society,” he says. “Co-operative housing projects are perfectly in line with our idea of a socially responsible development of inner city districts providing low rents.”

The Solidarity Co-operative hopes to finish the renovation of the building on Georg-Schwarz-Strasse by 2020. Already they have cleared out the rubble from an attic and ripped out some rotten floorboards. The initial work has left the building shell-like. It is almost impossible to imagine it restored and inhabited by tenants. But Goebel is confident.

“When I refused the money to stay in this house, many of my friends told me I was crazy. I was the only one who believed something could be done,” he says. “Now there are many of us who believe in it, it doesn’t seem so crazy!”

====== 207 ========

VAUXHALL TO CUT HUNDREDS OF JOBS AT ELLESMERE PORT PLANT IN CHESHIRE

Carmaker Vauxhall is to cut more than 200 jobs at its Ellesmere Port plant.

The company said it is planning a “phased reduction” of 241 jobs, and is aiming for all redundancies to be voluntary.

Production line workers staged a walkout when the cuts were announced, according to reports.

Vauxhall said the job losses were part of a restructuring that is “critical to ensure that the Ellesmere Port plant develops its competitiveness during this difficult time within the industry”.

“The restructuring is necessary to make it a competitive plant when compared to the benchmark,” the group said.

The news follows a report last week that the firm’s French owner, PSA, is considering shutting down one of its two UK plants after Brexit.

Sources said the manufacturer was reviewing how it will respond to the post-Brexit market, and said Vauxhall was also considering stockpiling parts to avoid shortages and bringing forward a summer shutdown.

The UK motor industry has struggled in recent months, with many companies issuing strong warnings about Brexit.

Jaguar Land Rover was forced to stop production at its Solihull plant for two weeks in October, and has put workers at its Castle Bromwich plant on a three-day week until Christmas.

Meanwhile, Toyota has said a no-deal Brexit would lead to a temporary stoppage in production and hurt UK investment, and BMW is planning to bring a maintenance stoppage at its Oxford plant forward to coincide with the beginning of Brexit.

Unite regional coordinating officer Mick Chalmers said: “Vauxhall’s Ellesmere Port workers have made huge sacrifices and worked hard to ensure the carmaker recently returned to profit for the first time in two decades.

“Further job losses will come as a sickening blow for them and their families in the run up to Christmas and will further heighten the anger over the uncertainty surrounding the future of the plant.”

Mr Chalmers said the union would be “pressing for guarantees of no compulsory redundancies” and “urgent assurances”.

The union has also called on PSA to “remove the uncertainty surrounding the plant by committing new models to Ellesmere Port beyond 2021”.

“PSA should be clear. Unite will not tolerate the death by a thousand cuts of Ellesmere Port and will leave no stone unturned in securing the future of the plant and its skilled workforce,” added Mr Chalmers.

====== 208 ========

HSBC ONLINE BANKING DOWN: CUSTOMERS LOCKED OUT OF ACCOUNTS ON BLACK FRIDAY

HSBC customers have been locked out of their online accounts on Black Friday, the busiest shopping day of the year.

The UK’s largest bank became the latest to be hit by IT failures after TSB, Barclays and RBS customers have all experienced problems this year.

“We're aware that some customers are experiencing intermittent issues logging onto mobile banking,” HSBC tweeted. “We're investigating and will provide further updates."

Customers were experiencing “intermittent issues” when logging into HSBC’s mobile app, the lender said.

A further tweet stated: “You can continue to use our online banking services. We're very sorry for any inconvenience.”

Some customers expressed anger at the bank via their social media accounts.

One wrote: “It's not intermittent. It's constant. I've been trying since 6am to pay a bill, and not only that - it's Black Friday.

“I'd planned on transferring some savings to use for shopping. I can't use the desktop version either because I need the app for a code”

An HSBC spokesperson said: “We ask that customers retry logging in, or they can access online banking services via their internet browser.”

The problems come on the day that MPs launched a probe into IT failures at big banks after a string of similar issues.

The Treasury Committee will look at how banks can prevent disruption and how they can correct IT problems when they occur.

Nicky Morgan, chairwoman of the committee, said: "The number of IT failures at other financial institutions in recent years is astonishing.

"Since becoming chair of the committee 16 months ago, there have been problems at Equifax, TSB, Visa, Barclays, Cashplus and RBS, to name a few."

====== 209 ========

HS2 IS NOT THE SOLUTION TO LONDON’S HOUSING CRISIS OR THE LACK OF RAIL LINKS TO THE NORTH

They had leaves on the line in the North of England last week, and the trains were halted. On a weekday, when thousands of commuters were trying to get to work, college and school; let alone the other, vast number of folk who thought they they would see the railway as their most convenient form of travel.

Because it was in the North, the stoppage raised barely a glimmer of interest in the South. If it had happened in Kent or Surrey, to trains into London Bridge or Waterloo, all hell would have broken loose. Instead, it was just another day of misery, to go with the other numerous days lost, including when they changed the timetable, and the services across the North could not cope.

Meanwhile, the Government is pressing ahead with a £56bn plan to develop HS2. Will the new high-speed link between London and the North-West change any of this? Will it improve things? Not at all. Will it make a difference that justifies such vast expenditure? Hardly. Is it a grotesque example of ministerial machismo, of gesture politics, of a total inability to see the wood for the trees? You bet it is.

The trains I’m talking about, the ones that were cancelled, were mostly on the branch lines, on the routes that people use day in, day out - not the West Coast Line, which already has a fast, comfortable service. In my lifetime, since growing up in Cumbria, and travelling to and from London to visit family, journey times have plummeted. On the main, trunk route - not on the secondary ones. This is where the problem lies, where the service is creaking.

Cutting several minutes off the London to Manchester service does not matter a h’apporth. What would boost the experience immeasurably there would be to ensure that wifi works all the way, that a mobile signal is not lost. But that, too, is not what HS2 is about.

Already, there is talk by those on the inside that the projected costs are soaring. The “main works civil contracts” on the London to Birmingham section, reports The Sunday Times, are “several billion pounds” over the official budget of £6.6bn. That’s before any earth is turned, and all manner of unseen, below ground problems are discovered.

Conscious of a final bill that could spiral out of control, and being seen to get a grip, ministers are demanding that instead of sanctioning extra expenditure, costs are being renegotiated, to stick to the budgeted figure. This, in turn, has led to delays, as more design and development is required, and specifications redrawn. Again, the word is that the vast project - the country’s biggest and most demanding infrastructure scheme - is likely to be more than a year behind schedule.

250mph That's how fast HS2 services will travel at when the project is completed

Part of the issue here is that mooted figures are proving inaccurate, the result, apparently of an insistence that the new railway meets a deadline for the beginning of services, of 2026.

The thinking behind this demand, that Britain is sick and tired of major capital constructions that seem to take forever to reach fulfilment (runway expansion of Heathrow was first raised exactly 50 years ago) is laudable. But put that together with a scheme that is huge and complex, and it can become a recipe for chaos. And that’s without HS2 being unnecessary in the first place.

This is what ministers should realise: that £56bn buys you an awful lot of terribly needed enhancements, for instance to existing country and suburban services, and to digitalisation.

There is a subtext, of course, to HS2 - one that is hardly ever raised, let alone publicly admitted. And it is that the 250mph railway has another purpose, beyond rushing passengers from London to Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester. It is that the faster railway makes commuting from Birmingham in particular all that more manageable. House prices in the West Midlands are so much cheaper than in the South-East. Public sector workers in essential occupations, in sectors like the NHS and education, will be able to afford to commute from Brum. HS2, you see, is aimed in part at alleviating London’s growing housing crisis. Which makes it a very expensive solution indeed.

When confronted with the news of the overruns and delay, the Department for Transport said it would not comment on speculation. “Our priority is to ensure value for money for the taxpayer.”

Yes, but does the overall project seriously provide value for money?

Ministers have the ability to stop it in its tracks, to divert the investment elsewhere. Of course, that would involve a loss of pride. There would be some dismay in the North, but not as much as might be expected - particularly if the money was spent on other local, much-needed advancements. Perhaps they should test attitudes towards the new service before it's too late.

For there are warning lights flashing all over this. An awful lot of cash is being committed to something for which there is little demand. Getting from A to B may become quicker, but B to C will be just as slow – and it’s the B to C that is used by so many people every day, that ceased to operate last week and will do so again, even with HS2.

Chris Blackhurst is a former editor of The Independent, and director of C|T|F Partners, the campaigns, strategic, crisis and reputational, communications advisory firm

====== 210 ========

BUSINESS COMMENT

====== 211 ========

GROUNDED FLYBE IN THE AIR AGAIN THANKS TO VIRGIN INTEREST

Having looked a misstep or two away from being grounded for good, struggling regional airline Flybe has suddenly taken off.

Not just like one of its dinky little planes either. The shares on Friday morning more closely resembled the sort of rockets Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic envisages using for its SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity reusable space launch system (just trying saying it quickly).

Virgin is the operative word here, because it’s Sir Richard’s part owned Virgin Atlantic’s interest in Flybe that’s got everyone excited.

The transatlantic airline has emerged as a potential bidder for its lower flying peer that last week threw in the towel and put itself up for sale amid a tightening financial squeeze.

Flybe’s business has been taking hits from all sides. Its planes are increasingly uneconomic against the backdrop of a rising oil price, and sterling’s status as a bargain basement currency thanks to the spectacular mess Theresa May and her government have made of Brexit. It is suffering from the effects of competition from ultra low cost carriers too. They take people a lot further for not very much more in terms of price. And sometimes less. Compensation costs under EU law are another pressure.

Combined, that’s a lot of turbulence for a relatively small company, whose long term investors have had to repeatedly reach for sick bags. Flybe floated on the stock market at 295p back in 2010 but started its descent soon after. Even after the more than 30 per cent rise prompted by the news of Virgin’s interest, they were still trading at only just above 13p. Aviation may no longer be glamorous, but people inexplicably find it exciting and want to put money into it, even though the best way to make a small fortune is to invest a big one in airlines not named Ryanair.

The reason Sir Richard & Co fancy Flybe isn’t hard to divine. Flybe would allow the airline to feed passengers to Virgin Atlantic from smaller regional airports – the two already have a code sharing arrangement.

An earlier attempt by Virgin to crack the regional market – via Little Red – ended in closure with the tycoon complaining about the meagre package of landing slots the company operated.

But Flybe has some valuable real estate at Heathrow with the slots it has that are reserved for domestic use and learning from past mistakes is a good way to ensure future success.

Virgin may not have it all its own way, however. Flybe rejected a past takeover approach from the Stobart Group, another company with a highly recognisable brand name, an airline, and not a few big egos around the boardroom table.

If this leads to a takeover battle, Flybe’s investors won’t be flying home first class. But they might be able to muster up a taxi fare to get them to the airport.

====== 212 ========

ASDA, SAINSBURY’S AND MORRISONS CUT PETROL AND DIESEL PRICES

Asda, Morrisons and Sainsbury’s have all cut the price of petrol and diesel at filling stations across the UK as wholesale costs continue to drop.

Asda was first to announce plans to cut its petrol price by 1p and diesel by 2p per litre, effective from Friday onwards.

The reduction means petrol will now cost no more than £1.19 per litre, while diesel will cost a maximum of £1.30 at its 319 filling stations.

The supermarket’s senior fuel buyer, Dave Tyrer, said: “Further decreases in the wholesale market mean we are able to reduce our prices again, with Asda’s unleaded price dropped by up to 9p per litre since the end of October, and now we’re seeing the diesel price drop below £1.30 for the first time in three months.”

Morrisons and Sainsbury’s subsequently said they would match the cut starting from Saturday.

RAC fuel spokesperson Simon Williams said: “It’s great to see drivers benefiting from Black Friday too with this latest price cut at the pumps, which we now need to be followed swiftly by other retailers so the UK average price comes down.

“After so much of 2018 being characterised by rising fuel prices, it’s heartening to see prices falling just as we enter the expensive festive period.

“While this is obviously good news, it’s disappointing that it has not come sooner as the wholesale price of petrol has been falling for weeks.”

Earlier this year, UK motorists were facing record charges for fuel at the pump as oil prices hit a four-year high, compounded by the weakness of sterling against the dollar.

However the price of crude oil dropped to a 2018 low on Friday due to a global supply glut.

====== 213 ========

LOUIS THEROUX'S ALTERED STATES – TAKE MY BABY, REVIEW: AN EVEN-HANDED LOOK AT OPEN ADOPTION THAT DRAWS FEW CONCLUSIONS

“Sometimes your questions are a little hard,” says Irene, an open adoption facilitator, in Louis Theroux's Altered States (BBC2), having just helped Jessica hand over of her new-born child to another woman. “People need to get a sense of how hard it is,” Theroux replies. “Just because they’re not expressing it, doesn’t mean they’re not feeling it deeply.”

Theroux, as nearly always, is right. Jessica passed out during childbirth and has not seen her nine-pound baby; the other woman, Cat, is cradling the child, having already adopted it. Is Jessica feeling loss? Does she know she has a legal right to keep the baby? Has she changed her mind?

The third and final part of Altered States series centres on pregnant mothers who offer up their still-gestating babies for adoption. Where the polygamy episode was an exploration of the unconventional and the second instalment's look at euthanasia was deeply distressing, “Take My Baby” is somewhere in between the two, teetering between uplifting and upsetting.

As with the previous episodes, Theroux follows three separate cases. First, we are introduced to Patricia, a young mother of three who is pregnant again. Irene (mentioned above) connects Patricia with Amy and Ari, a sweet couple who excitedly await their new daughter – they name her Maya, buy her clothes, and tell other parents they’re expecting.

However, we soon learn of Patricia’s ulterior motive: money. Amy and Ari are paying a hefty sum for Maya – around $40,000 – and when Patricia decides to run away with the baby, they’re heartbroken. The money’s not the issue; their child has been stolen. It’s devastating and a stark warning against open adoption.

At the opposite end of the spectrum there’s Isiah, a boy who has been adopted by Joanne and now they are meeting Isiah’s real mother. Theroux watches events unfold, only asking the customary tough questions when both women are separate. As with last week, his empathetic nature shines as this success story – one of a child bringing two families together – unfolds.

Finally, there’s Jessica. Her story carefully balances the happiness of two parents gaining a baby with the immeasurable loss of a mother handing over a child. Perhaps the most harrowing moment of all comes from Jessica’s mother, who doesn’t want to give away her grandchild. “It’s like a death in the family,” she tells Theroux. “This is the grieving process.”

At times, Theroux shows his hand, such as with Patricia’s story, where he makes it clear through narration that something’s amiss before the dark twist becomes clear. Another rare misstep from Theroux comes when he pushes Jessica on feeling loss, in the process failing to help the viewer understand why she was adamant about giving up the baby.

But, for the most part, we are offered an even-handed look at open adoption that draws few conclusions. Asking the hard questions without ever overstepping boundaries, Theroux is on typically astute form, his masterly command of conversation shining through. Altered States is indeed another fine series to add to his already remarkable compendium of films.

====== 214 ========

THE LITTLE DRUMMER GIRL, EPISODE 5, REVIEW: MICHAEL SHANNON SHINES IN PENULTIMATE OUTING

“The pieces are falling into place,” says the Israeli spymaster Michael Kurtz (Michael Shannon) in episode five of The Little Drummer Girl (BBC1). So they are. His little English drummer girl Charlie (Florence Pugh) has infiltrated a Palestinian terror camp, apparently winning the trust of the remaining members of the powerful Al-Khadar family. Having acquiesced in the assassination, by the Israelis, of Salim Al-Khaddar, she persuades his big sister Fatmeh (Luna Izabal) that she and Salim had been lovers, and that she was one of the last people to see him alive before he died in a “car accident” in West Germany.

Kurtz picked Charlie, among other reasons, because she is an actor, and the Palestinians are duly taken in, conferring upon her the special status of “martyr’s widow”. She is, as Kurtz had planned, getting closer to the leader of the faction, elder brother Khalil Al-Khadar.

But who is Charlie actually drumming for? Israelis? Palestinians? Herself? Both sides speak of her as part of their “family”, yet we know she cannot be both. Intelligent as she is, and with a certain native cunning, does she realise this? As Kurtz remarks, “it is an all or nothing game now, she is either a dead body or a family member”. Khalil would say the same.

Kurtz recruited Charlie remarkably easily, which leaves some doubt in the viewer’s mind about her sincerity. She was picked by the Isrealis to become their “asset”, Kurtz’s very own star player in his “theatre of the real”, because of her sympathy for the Palestinian cause – but tempered by her disgust at the cruelty with which the longest war in the world is prosecuted by both sides. So, as the handsome Israeli agent Gadi (Alexander Skarsgard) has warned her, when she finds herself surrounded by dispossessed Palestinians grieving for dead children, she becomes “ashamed deceiving them”.

True enough. As she learns a little Arabic from the kids, and then sees one of them vapourised by an Israeli air strike, the sense of conflicted emotions is tangible, but never overdone (Pugh gets the balance just right). By the end of her boot camp session, featuring body slams and RPG launchers, the diminutive Charlie is a sort of mash-up of Goldie Hawn in Private Benjamin and Uma Thurman in Kill Bill (that’s meant as a compliment). She passes her Palestinian test of loyalty just as she has previously passed her Israeli ones.

Back in London, she assumes another “role”, this time with a cover story provided for her by her Palestinian bosses; a South African “fascist” student at the University of Durban visiting her cousin in London. Charlie’s handed a mousey wig, chunky brown knitwear and some thick specs that make her, now, resemble Velma Dinkley off Scooby Doo – entirely appropriate for a drama set in circa 1979. Her mission is to kill an Israeli academic who is to give a speech at a polytechnic to mark the anniversary of Israeli independence / the Palestinian catastrophe. A bomb in a briefcase is duly swapped, but discreetly scooped up by the Mossad squad hovering around in constant surveillance, and – in fact – found only to contain some pamphlets rationalising apartheid (toxic but not directly deadly). It was a clever feint by the Palestinian gang, a way to flush out any Israeli or British intelligence presence. It almost worked.

Which brings us to Charles Dance and the authentic whiff of British establishment antisemitism, or at least anti-Zionism. Dance plays the Secret Intelligence Service chief Commander Picton, to whom Kurtz turns for assistance in thwarting the attack. Picton – and it makes one wince with especial pain these days - makes no attempt to disguise his contempt for “Zionist thugs”, being the Irgun terrorists he encountered as junior officer at the fag end of the British mandate in Palestine, around 1948. And so you grasp, without Kurtz uttering a single syllable, the motivation, the fear if you like, that drives the Zionist project. It is one of Shannon’s best scenes, effective quiet foil to Picton’s racist diatribe.

One nice touch at Picton’s Bletchley Park style establishment is a large portrait of Ernest Bevin hanging on the staircase as Kurtz and Picton go out to catch some “clean English air”. Bevin was foreign secretary when the British got the hell out of the Holy Land, and was himself an incorrigible anti-Semite. No wonder all the characters, Israelis and Palestinians alike, blame the British for “starting it all”.

In the episode’s closing moments, Charlie meets Khalil Al-Khadar, and we know that she will, in next week’s final episode, be forced to make a choice between her “families”.

Won’t she?

====== 215 ========

DYNASTIES, EPISODE 3, REVIEW: THE LION'S PLIGHT IS HARROWING TO WATCH

On last week’s episode of Dynasties – David Attenborough’s new BBC1 series, which follows five of the world’s most celebrated but endangered animals – the film crew broke the 92-year-old broadcaster’s cardinal rule: never interfere with nature. When a group of emperor penguins became trapped in an icy ravine, the team dug a ramp in the ice, allowing the penguins to free themselves.

It was an unprecedented decision, but one even Attenborough himself (according to executive producer Mike Gunton) would have made. The trouble is, it just makes it all the more galling that in tonight’s episode, which follows a pride of lions in Kenya’s Masai Mara, nature is allowed to take its course – no matter how cruel.

And, as is typical of Attenborough’s documentaries, there are about a thousand cruel moments. The Marsh Pride (which is, says Attenborough in his frail, avuncular tone, “perhaps the most famous lion family of all”) has been abandoned by every single one of its adult males, its survival now resting solely on the shoulders of a lioness called Charm, and her cousin Sienna.

Forced to hunt around the clock while her three-year-old son blunders around trying to bring down a two-ton hippo, and his young cousin Red ambles straight into the middle of a 20-strong hyena clan (the scene is, shot for shot, straight out of The Lion King), Charm must get down to the serious business of finding enough food for all ten of her dependents.

So high are the standards set by Attenborough’s myriad previous shows that it’s easy to take for granted the breathtaking cinematography. But tonight’s aerial shots of wildebeest swarming like ants away from the Masai Mara, infra-red footage of night hunts, and sunset-tinged close-ups of Charm, staring heroically into the middle distance, are so arresting that they surpass even the dizzying benchmark of the show’s predecessors.

Thank goodness it’s so beautiful, because in every other way, this is pretty harrowing to watch. At one point, Sienna is attacked and badly injured, returning to the pride after several days with a chunk missing from her side. Just as she recovers, the pride is poisoned by villagers attempting to protect their livestock.

Sienna goes missing, and Charm is forced to leave her ailing young cub for dead, in order to remain with the rest of her pride. “She’ll never see her son, or Sienna, alive again,” Attenborough sombrely informs us. Hakuna Matata.

There are moments of respite – Charm’s bond with her daughter, Yaya, is a sight to behold – but they don’t last long. A pair of male lions arrive to stake a claim in Charm’s hard-earned pride, and chase out every young cub, Yaya included.

By the end, though she has two new cubs, Attenborough’s claims that “this extraordinary lioness has succeeded” are somewhat debatable. But watching her resilience – “She’s the matriarch, she’s the... dame,” says one of the crew in the behind-the-scenes segment at the end – is inspiring. There are fewer than 2,000 lions left in Kenya. Shows like this remind us what a travesty that is.

Dynasties airs on Sundays on BBC1 at 8pm

====== 216 ========

STRICTLY COME DANCING, WEEK 10 RESULTS: GRAEME SWANN IS LATEST CELEBRITY TO LEAVE THE DANCE FLOOR

Graeme Swann has become the latest celebrity to exit the dance floor in Strictly Come Dancing 2018.

The former English cricketer is the ninth celebrity to leave the competition, after he and his professional partner Oti Mabuse faced Ashley Roberts and her partner Pashs Kovalev in the dance-off at Blackpool.

Viewers’ votes were combined with the judges’ scores to decide the two lowest-scoring couples who would have to perform their Saturday night routines again in the Sunday results show, which opened with a group routine and a performance of Sir Rod Stewart singing his new song "Farewell".

Graeme and Oti then performed a Quickstep to “Sing Sing Sing” by The Andrews Sisters, and Ashley and Pasha performed their Samba to “Hot Hot Hot” by Arrow. After both couples had danced a second time, the four judges delivered their verdicts:

Craig Revel Horwood said the decision was a “no brainer” and saved Ashley and Pasha, as did Darcey Bussell, who said their dance was the more “technically efficient”.

“No disrespect but it’s evident,” Bruno Tolioni agreed. “Overall much, much stronger on every level, come on, it’s Ashley. Ashley and Pasha.”

Shirley Ballas did not have to cast her vote but said she would also have saved Ashley and Pasha.

When asked by Tess about his time on the show, Graeme said: “I’d have voted for Ashley and Pasha as well. I can’t quite believe I was put against them to be honest but this whole journey I’ve got to say, before I say gloating things about Oti that I’m obviously going to. This show and what you’ve got is something special and thank you for letting me be a part of it.”

Asked if she had any words for Graeme, Oti said: “I’ve had the best season of my entire career on Strictly. I have never laughed so much, I’ve never been so angry so much. I have the best friend in you. We might not have been the best dancers but you have the spirit of Strictly. The show is such a nice family to be a part of the judges are amazing, the pros and the celebs are such a great support because they are lovely so thank you guys.”

The remaining seven couples will take to the dance floor next week when Strictly Come Dancing returns on Saturday 1 December, at 6.50pm.

====== 217 ========

NEWS

====== 218 ========

DOCTOR WHO, EPISODE 8, REVIEW: 'THE WITCHFINDERS' IS JODIE WHITTAKER'S SCARIEST OUTING YET

Doctor Who has defeated Daleks, Cybermen and a campaign by BBC management in the late Eighties to send the Tardis into early retirement. But not even a Time Lord in a natty coat stands a chance against the malignant spirits haunting the internet, as made clear this week when BBC One’s eighth episode of the latest season was leaked by Amazon.

The paranoid might wonder if the accidental appearance of “The Witchfinders” on Amazon Prime in the US represented cosmic payback. The previous Sunday, showrunner Chris Chibnall had appeared to tweak the nose of the tech goliath with an instalment that pointedly critiqued online retailing.

In “Kerblam!”, the Doctor investigated a conspiracy at the hulking warehouse complex of a (completely fictional) internet retailer with a cosmic footprint. Along the way serious points were made about worker treatment by the dotcom gods. Had the broadcaster brought the virtual equivalent of bad karma down on its head?

Either way, those who enjoyed a sneak peek at “The Witchfinders” before Amazon hastily took it down may have wished they hadn’t. Before us stands the first properly scary Doctor Who under Chibnall. The gallant Gallifreyan (Jodie Whittaker) and her team travel to a Satan-obsessed village in 17th century Lancashire. This is the era when the hats were tall, the populace godfearing and the punishment for witch-like behaviour – being female and having entry-level knowledge of herbs – severe.

It’s witch-hunting season, as it happens, and the action commences with our heroes observing an innocent woman drowned in a ritual to test whether she is in league with Satan (had she survived, her guilt would have been proved beyond all doubt and she would have been conveyed to the nearest pyre).

This is disturbing enough – but far scarier is to follow. The witchy goings-on at Bilehurst Cragg – didn’t he play bass with Iron Maiden in the Eighties? – are the work of demonic mud particles, which have possessed the corpses of the innocents slaughtered in the moral panic.

Ashen, with muck oozing down their faces, the zombies look like something from an x-rated Japanese horror movie such as The Grudge or Ring. Which is obviously a welcome change after a rather preachy season of Doctor Who. It’s just a fortnight, after all, since we were asked to consider that the internecine violence that erupted during Indian partition was on balance a negative development.

Nonetheless, for all the families watching, Japanese-horror style zombies are probably too much of a terrifying thing. Why, it needs to be asked, was writer Joy Wilkinson given a green light to serve up full-fat nightmare fuel on a Sunday evening pre-watershed?

Still, the shivers are in service of a cracking story. Alan Cumming turns up as a dandy-ish King James I (at one point it seems his moustache is about to literally start twirling and lift him off the ground). He’s in town to assist godfearing Becka Savage (Happy Valley’s Siobhan Finneran) with her black magic crackdown and quickly rumbles that the Doctor isn’t, as she claims, a Witchfinder General.

Actually, James assumes Graham (Bradley Walsh) is the boss witchfinder, the Doctor his assistant (what with her being female and everything). But the newcomers’ story crumbles quite rapidly anyway and it’s the Doctor who finds herself taking a dip in order to ascertain her witchiness.

However, death by drowning is the least of her worries (she slips her chains and swims to safety). The mud-monsters, it turns out, are elite alien soldiers, imprisoned on Earth for millennia previously.

The charm holding them in place is broken when Becka cuts down a magical tree – for which her reward is extraterrestrial infection. The orgy of witch killing is her way of covering up for the fact she is being consumed by forces beyond her understanding – and also a flailing attempt to drive out what she assumes to be the devil inside.

Yet the jig is revealed to be up when the mud-demon possesses her completely and (very considerately) explains that, with the guardian tree gone, his big bad boss is about to return. Enter the Doctor, who uses charmed wood from the tree to seal the gate and scatter the monsters – with amused assistance from King James.

The blend of chills and whimsy – Cumming licks, chews and devours the scenery whole – is surprisingly effective and the mud-zombies looming in the murk are genuinely unsettling. Which is good news for horror diehards, less so for all those tuning in with their children. “The Witchfinders” undoubtedly casts a spell, but family fare it is not.

====== 219 ========

A YEAR AFTER #METOO, HOLLYWOOD HAS A HEADACHE MONEY CAN’T CURE

Resting in the film executive’s sweaty palm was an extremely long rectangular pill stamped “X-A-N-A-X.”

“Want half?” he says.

It was a hot, windy night in mid-September, and we were walking to our cars after meeting for drinks at the Polo Lounge in Beverly Hills. I had expected a lively, gossip-fuelled conversation, nothing for attribution, of course. Instead, our talk was more like a gloomy therapy session – in which I was the shrink.

Over a vodka martini (his) and a Diet Coke (mine), he gripes that the #MeToo and Time’s Up movements had gone too far, too fast. He says he was “depressed” about moviemaking for the first time in his decades-long career, the result of endless remakes and superhero movies. (“Maybe we should remake Dumbo as a live-action picture. Oh, wait. It’s actually happening.”) And how was it possible that one of the all-time-great studios, 20th Century Fox, was being folded into Disney, ending an era of six major studio competitors?

I rebuffed the Xanax by joking that even half looked big enough to tranquillise the Incredible Hulk and drove home. But the unsettling encounter stayed with me. I knew it wasn’t just one guy having a bad day. Hollywood is in the midst of a full-blown identity crisis.

Based on the box office, studios should be full of people turning cartwheels and sprinkling confetti. After a sizzling summer, theatres are having their busiest autumn on record. October ticket sales were up a fat 45 per cent compared with last year, according to Comscore. Coming soon are anticipated holiday juggernauts like Aquaman and the animated Ralph Breaks the Internet. And the big film factories, after largely ceding the Academy Awards to tiny art films over the past decade, are back in the thick of the Oscar race. Crowdpleasers like Black Panther (Disney) and A Star Is Born (Warner Bros) are serious best picture contenders.

But euphoria is almost nonexistent in studio hallways. The movie capital is instead mired in a profound malaise.

The reason involves fallout from the #MeToo earthquake, both the positive changes it forced, and, lately, the pushback it has incurred. Contributing are the megamergers that have left Warner Bros and 20th Century Fox with new owners and may find Sony Pictures, Lionsgate and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer sold or reconfigured before long. The steady march of big tech into entertainment also plays a role. Hollywood power players have long clung to the fantasy that the world revolves around them, as if it were 1940 and they were all Louis B Mayer. But that delusion has been hard to sustain with Amazon and Apple throwing around billions to make TV series, some featuring megawatt stars like Julia Roberts and Jennifer Aniston.

There is fear, but there is also anger. Women with a point of view, many men with another. Older executives not understanding why younger executives and employees are so adamant about diversity and inclusion. Younger executives and employees angry at their bosses for letting it get this bad

In the 100-year history of Hollywood, rarely if ever has so much upheaval arrived so fast and on so many fronts. For streaming upstarts like Netflix and Amazon Studios, where the cultures are still forming and money is gushing, the disruption is invigorating. But the rest of the entertainment business is filled with a deep unease. It is not just old-guard men moping about the end of their supremacy. It’s mid-level vice presidents at merging companies worried about whether they are about to lose their jobs. It is people initially excited by the Time’s Up insurgency who are concerned about stagnation or even backsliding.

“The vast majority of people feel completely unmoored,” says Amy Baer, whose 30-year movie career has taken her from Sony Pictures to CBS Films to independent producing. “There is fear. There is tension. And there is no end in sight.”

‘Yap, yap – go back to your kennels’

It has been a little more than a year since Hollywood was rocked by accusations of sexual harassment and worse against producer Harvey Weinstein. The #MeToo and Time’s Up reckonings have resulted in the ouster of producers (Weinstein), actors (Kevin Spacey), studio bigwigs (John Lasseter), directors (Brett Ratner) and chief executives (Leslie Moonves). In September, when The Hollywood Reporter published its annual list of the 100 most influential people in movies and TV – a group that usually looks remarkably similar year after year – there were 35 new names, 40 per cent of them women or people of colour.

Publicly, everyone in Hollywood says the same thing, almost as if reading from talking points written by publicists: we applaud this long overdue progress and will do everything in our power to make sure the culture changes.

What some people in senior jobs say privately is a different story. In hushed lunches at the Palm and over cocktails at Tower Bar, established men – producers, directors, executives – share resentment about aggressive efforts by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to diversify its membership, which is overwhelmingly white and male. A glimpse of this animosity came in April, when Bill Mechanic, an Oscar-nominated producer and former Fox executive, resigned from the academy’s board. “We have settled on numeric answers to the problem of inclusion,” Mechanic wrote in his resignation letter, which was leaked to the news media. “One governor even went as far as suggesting we don’t admit a single white male to the academy, regardless of merit!”

Some men in Hollywood quickly revert to sexist and offensive language when speaking anonymously, which is the only way the most powerful ones will talk to reporters. (This is a place, after all, where even corporate publicists say things like, “Strictly off the record, I have nothing to say.”)

“Yap, yap – go back to your kennels,” a leading film producer told me over lunch recently at a Burbank sushi spot. He was talking about Time’s Up, the organisation founded in January by Reese Witherspoon, Shonda Rhimes and other powerful Hollywood women to fight workplace sexual harassment across the country. Realising he had misread his audience, perhaps because of the startled look on my face, he started to backtrack.

Baer, who was elected president of Women in Film, a deeply rooted advocacy organisation, over the summer, says one male film executive she has known for decades “seized up” over lunch when she casually asked how many women he employed.

“I was just curious,” Baer says. “This guy is one of the good guys. But he looked at me like ‘Oh, no – here she comes,’ like I was taking aim at him, and that speaks to the tension.”

Beth Gulas, a management and organisational consultant who focuses on the entertainment industry, says Hollywood was more out of alignment than it seemed on the surface. “There is fear, but there is also anger,” Gulas says. “Women with a point of view, many men with another. Older executives not understanding why younger executives and employees are so adamant about diversity and inclusion. Younger executives and employees angry at their bosses for letting it get this bad.”

The only unifying characteristic: “All of this change is having a massive impact on people,” she says. “Massive – as in bigger than people really want to say out loud.”

Gulas, whose past clients include Comcast and Legendary Entertainment, noted that Hollywood was dealing with upheaval on multiple fronts. The #MeToo movement happened to arrive at the same time as sweeping consolidation, driven by business realities beyond the box office, including the sputtering of what has long been the entertainment industry’s engine: cable TV. Within the past year, AT&T completed its $85.4bn (£66bn) takeover of Warner Bros, HBO and the Turner cable channels, which include TNT, CNN and Cartoon Network.

And the Walt Disney company knocked Hollywood on its heels by swallowing the historic 20th Century Fox movie and TV studio; the FX and National Geographic cable channels; and a controlling stake in Hulu, among other entertainment businesses long owned by Rupert Murdoch.

AT&T told its new Hollywood employees in July to brace for “a tough year” of change ahead. A housecleaning began last month.

Hundreds if not thousands of Fox employees may lose their jobs under the Disney merger. Disney managers, meanwhile, are bracing for the difficult job of smoothly integrating the Fox people who will remain – the “feral foxes,” as one Disney-associated producer put it. The Disney culture is almost militaristic in its respect for hierarchy and focus on its family-friendly mission. Fox is known for openly warring executives, particularly in its film division, and embrace of coarse movies (Deadpool) and series (American Horror Story).

‘Disgrace insurance’ is real

Prompted by #MeToo and earlier controversies like the #OscarsSoWhite outcry, there has been a stark shift towards greater diversity in casting, crew staffing and storytelling. There are new rules for auditions (no more hotel rooms) and zero-tolerance responses to offensive jokes on Twitter, as director James Gunn discovered in July when Disney fired him from the Guardians of the Galaxy series. New human resources chiefs have been hired or will soon be at CBS, Sony Pictures, Viacom, Pixar and Endeavor, which owns Hollywood’s largest talent agency, WME.

“It used to be more difficult to secure protections for actresses who are not household names – for actresses with the least power,” says Jamie Feldman, an entertainment lawyer whose clients range from A-listers (Viola Davis) to rising stars (Juno Temple). “If you pushed back on nudity, for example, there was often this cavalier tone about her needing to understand the price of entry. That has changed completely. People are very conscious about not wanting to be seen as disrespectful.”

Companies are looking for protection, too. Multiple studios are working to include morality clauses in their talent contracts. Some unions prohibit such provisos, but where possible, Fox is considering language stipulating that it can fire anyone whose conduct “results in adverse publicity or notoriety or risks bringing the talent into public disrepute, contempt, scandal or ridicule.” Spotted, a startup that evaluates celebrity endorsement-deal risk, has lately been talking about “disgrace insurance,” which is offered by multiple underwriters and was also the subject of a panel at the most-recent Producers Guild of America conference.

“Brands have become more leery of aligning themselves with actors because of #MeToo,” says Janet Comenos, Spotted’s chief executive. “That means potentially millions of dollars not flowing into the Hollywood ecosystem – the managers, the agents.”

It is impossible to know, of course, whether such changes will end or even dramatically reduce the abuses of power that have made Hollywood the centre of the #MeToo revolution. There is clearly a palpable difference in behaviour. But will an out-of-control business culture that operated for decades be permanently transformed? It will take years to find out, and there is a growing disillusionment among some of those on the front lines.

“Generally speaking, I still don’t see a real willingness to do what it takes to change a troubled culture,” Gulas says. “It takes investment, and it takes a lot of stamina to see it through. Most of these companies want a quick solution. They want a Band-Aid.”

In some areas, there are signs of regression. The number of women running film studios is actually going in reverse; Stacey Snider, chief executive of 20th Century Fox, will find herself displaced when Disney completes its takeover of Fox in the months ahead. At least nine additional female senior executives have left their jobs over the past year, including Cyma Zarghami, president of Nickelodeon Group, and Diane Nelson, president of DC Entertainment.

Ten months after actresses, clad in black, brought women’s rights activists as their guests to the Golden Globes, red carpets have returned to selling sex appeal and “Who are you wearing?” is again the default question. Studios and television networks have been reluctant to publicly commit to greater diversity and inclusion in casting and hiring crew members. Only Warner Bros, the lone studio run by a person of colour (Kevin Tsujihara), has done so, stipulating that it would hold itself accountable by issuing an annual report on its progress.

And despite the cheers that greeted Frances McDormand’s best actress acceptance speech at the last Academy Awards, in which she put the contractual term “inclusion rider” into the public consciousness, few stars have been willing to publicly demand them. Inclusion riders are stipulations that might require a cast and crew to, for example, be 50 per cent female, 40 per cent underrepresented ethnic groups, 20 per cent people with disabilities and 5 per cent LGBT+ people. In failure, studios would be forced to pay fines, to be put into a diversity-minded scholarship fund for student filmmakers.

Generally speaking, I still don’t see a real willingness to do what it takes to change a troubled culture. It takes investment, and it takes a lot of stamina to see it through. Most of these companies want a quick solution. They want a Band-Aid

The six major studios (soon to be five) declined to comment on inclusion riders. One studio chief, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he feared drawing the fury of advocacy groups, says lawyers at his company nixed the notion because they feared that such quotas might prompt lawsuits under federal and state anti-discrimination statutes.

Now streaming on Netflix

On a more meta level, Hollywood is also wrestling with a question that challenges its core identity: What is a film? No movie backed by Netflix – shown primarily on TV sets – has ever been nominated for best picture at the Academy Awards, but that could change this year with Roma, a black-and-white period drama directed by Alfonso Cuarón that has been hailed as a masterpiece by critics who have seen it at festivals. It arrived in a smattering of theatres this week and will be show on Netflix on 14 December.

Netflix and other tech companies, including Apple and Amazon, have been steadily poaching talent from established companies by offering eye-popping pay packages, leading to more anxiety. You can even feel it at Disney, which is the strongest of the old-line entertainment companies. Over the past 15 months, Disney has lost some of its marquee talents to Netflix, including producers (Rhimes, Kenya Barris) and executives (Tendo Nagenda, Jamila Hunter). That kind of brain drain is not good for morale.

But studios are mostly worn down from #MeToo fallout. They have become accustomed, for instance, to rolling public relations emergencies.

In August, Universal Pictures scrambled to contain a crisis that arose from the set of Good Boys, an upcoming comedy, when a photo of a young actor in what appeared to be blackface makeup was leaked to TMs; the makeup had been applied to a lighter-skinned African-American actor, who was standing in for a darker-skinned black actor in a lighting test. In September, 20th Century Fox says it had deleted a scene in The Predator after learning that an actor with a bit part was a registered sex offender. The director of the film, Shane Black, initially defended the casting and then reversed himself, leading to an ongoing news story.

As Baer says, there is no end in sight. In recent weeks, Fox had to bob and weave through its marketing campaign for Bohemian Rhapsody, which carried Bryan Singer’s name as the credited director. Singer, whom Fox fired near the end of production for questionable on-set behaviour, has long been trailed by sexual misconduct allegations. He has repeatedly denied any such behaviour, issuing another statement of innocence on 15 October in anticipation of a still-unpublished exposé in Esquire.

Some movies have been stranded completely, imperiling more than $150m in production costs. They include Woody Allen’s A Rainy Day in New York, which Amazon has refused to schedule for release (Allen’s team insists the film will find distribution in 2019) and Morgan Spurlock’s documentary Super Size Me 2: Holy Chicken!, which was dropped by distributors after Spurlock acknowledged sexual misconduct.

There were a half dozen films left unreleased by The Weinstein Company, which imploded last spring. Some of those, including The Upside, starring Kevin Hart, Bryan Cranston and Nicole Kidman, will start to make their way to theatres in January through new distributors – undoubtedly amid publicity-trail questions of the stars about Weinstein, who has lately been battling sex-crime charges in court.

“Established protocols – decades worth – are changing at lightning speed,” Baer says. “For people like me, who believe change is desperately needed in Hollywood, that is exciting. But a lot of people are lost in anxiety.”

© New York Times

====== 220 ========

NEWS

====== 221 ========

AL PACINO TO STAR AS KING LEAR IN NEW FILM ADAPTATION

Al Pacino will star as King Lear in a new film adaptation of Shakespeare’s play, it has been confirmed.

According to the Guardian, the Oscar-winning actor will be directed by Michael Radford – who worked with Pacino in 2004’s The Merchant of Venice where the actor played Shylock – in the story of a once-great monarch who descends into madness.

“Lear is the one that everyone aims for. Al has been toying with the idea for a long time. There’s a difference between Shylock, who’s only in five scenes, and Lear, who is in every scene, pretty much,” Radford said in a statement.

“It’s enormous. I think [Pacino] would like to have that kind of kudos because he’s a terrific actor.”

Producer Barry Navidi, who also worked on The Merchant of Venice, said: “Before, we had the passion and the desire, but we never had a start date. We all have the energy to do [King Lear] now. We’re creating, hopefully, an epic.

“Michael and Al are going to stick to the original poetry. But a lot is to do with the delivery and the visuals. How Michael combines it and makes it more accessible, it becomes naturalistic rather than forced.”

Pacino made his name as a Hollywood star in films such as The Godfather and Scarface. King Lear is considered one of the world’s most coveted roles, performed by greats including Laurence Olivier, Orson Welles and Sir Ian McKellen. Rumours that Pacino would take on the task have circulated for almost a decade.

Pacino is next slated to appear in Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman and Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, in which he’ll play the agent of Leonardo DiCaprio’s character, Rick Dalton.

====== 222 ========

WHAT WE SHOULD LEARN FROM MUSLIM WOMEN’S FASHION

Major art museums have realised there is much to learn from clothing that is both religiously coded and fashion forward.

Earlier this year the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, hosted a fashion exhibition inspired by the Catholic faith titled Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and Catholic Imagination. With more than 1.6 million visitors, it was the most popular exhibit in the Met’s history.

And now the de Young Museum of San Francisco has the first major exhibit devoted to the Islamic fashion scene. Contemporary Muslim Fashions (22 September 2018-6 January 2019) displays 80 swoon-worthy ensembles – glamorous gowns, edgy streetwear, conceptual couture – loosely organised by region and emphasising distinct textile traditions. This exhibit is a bold statement of cultural appreciation during a time of heightened anti-Muslim rhetoric.

In studying how Muslim women dress for over a decade, I realised a deeper understanding of Muslim women’s clothing can challenge popular stereotypes about Islam. Here are three takeaways.

1. Modesty is not one thing

While there are scattered references to modest dress in the sacred written sources of Islam, these religious texts do not spend a lot of time discussing the ethics of Muslim attire. And once I started to pay attention to how Muslims dress, I quickly realised that modesty does not look the same everywhere.

I travelled to Iran, Indonesia and Turkey for my research on Muslim women’s clothing. The Iranian penal code requires women to wear proper Islamic clothing in public, although what that entails is never defined. The morality police harass and arrest women who they think expose too much hair or skin. Yet even under these conditions of intense regulation and scrutiny, women wear a remarkable range of styles – from edgy ripped jeans and graphic tees to bohemian loose, flowy separates.

Indonesia is the most populous Muslim nation in the world, but Indonesian women did not wear head coverings or modest clothing until about 30 years ago. Today, local styles integrate crystal and sequin embellishments. Popular fabric choices include everything from pastel chiffon to bright batik, which is promoted as the national textile.

When it comes to Turkey, for much of the last century authorities discouraged Muslim women from wearing pious fashion, claiming these styles were “unmodern” because they were not secular. That changed with the rise of the Islamic middle class, when Muslim women began to demand an education, to work outside the home and to wear modest clothing and a headscarf as they did so. Today local styles tend to be tailored closely to the body, with high necklines and low hemlines and complete coverage of the hair.

A stunning range of Muslim fashions are found in the United States as well, reflecting the diversity of its approximately 3.45 million Muslims. Fifty-eight per cent of Muslim adults in the US are immigrants, coming from some 75 countries. And US-born Muslims are diverse. For instance, more than half of Muslims whose families have been in the US for at least three generations are black.

This diversity provides the opportunity for hybrid identities, which are displayed through clothing styles.

2. Muslim women don’t need saving

Many non-Muslims see Muslim women’s clothing and headscarves as a sign of oppression. It is true that a Muslim woman’s clothing choices are shaped by her community’s ideas about what it means to be a good Muslim. But this situation is not unlike that for non-Muslim women, who likewise have to negotiate expectations concerning their behaviour.

In my book, I introduce readers to a number of women who use their clothing to express their identity and assert their independence. Tari is an Indonesian college student who covers her head despite her parents’ objections. Her parents worry that a headscarf will make it harder for Tari to get a job after graduation. But for Tari, whose friends all cover their hair, her clothing is the primary way she communicates her personal style and her Muslim identity.

Nur, who majored in communications at Istanbul Commerce University, dresses modestly but is highly critical of the pressure she sees the apparel industry putting on Muslim women to buy brand-name clothing. For her, Muslim style does not have to come with a high price tag.

Leila works for the Iranian government and considers her off-duty clothing choices a form of civil disobedience. Monday to Friday she wears dark colours and long baggy overcoats. But on the weekends she pushes the limits of acceptability with tight-fitting outfits and heavy makeup – sartorial choices that might get her in trouble with the morality police. She accepts the legal obligation to wear Islamic clothing in public, but asserts her right to decide what that entails.

Designers have also used clothing to protest issues affecting their communities. The de Young exhibit, for example, includes a scarf by designer Céline Semaan to protest against Trump’s travel ban. The scarf features a NASA satellite image of several of the countries whose citizens are denied entry to the US, overlaid with the word “Banned”.

3. Muslims contribute to mainstream society

A 2017 Pew survey showed that 50 per cent of Americans say Islam is not a part of mainstream society. But, as Muslim models and Muslim designers are increasingly recognised by the fashion world, the misperception of Muslims as outsiders has the potential to change.

Muslim models are spokespersons for top cosmetic brands, walk the catwalk for high end designers and are featured in print ads for major labels.

Today clothing inspired by Islamic aesthetics is marketed to all consumers, not just Muslim ones. Take the most recent collection of British Muslim designer Hana Tajima for Uniqlo. In its promotional materials, the global casual wear retailer described the garments as “culturally sensitive and extremely versatile” clothing for cosmopolitan women of all backgrounds.

To be hip today is to dress in culturally inclusive ways, and this includes modest styles created by Muslim designers and popularised by Muslim consumers. Fashion makes it clear that Muslims are not only part of mainstream society, they are contributors to it.

Liz Bucar is associate professor of philosophy and religion at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. This article first appeared on The Conversation (theconversation.com)

====== 223 ========

MP WHO BLOCKED UPSKIRTING BILL SPARKS OUTRAGE FOR BLOCKING BILL TO PROTECT WOMEN FROM FGM

A parliamentary bill to help protect children from female genital mutilation (FGM) has been blocked by the same Conservative MP who sought to prevent a bill to make upskirting a criminal offence.

Sir Christopher Chope, 71, who is the MP for Christchurch in Dorset, shouted “object” in the House of Commons on Friday to a second reading for the bill that had been proposed by Lord Michael Berkeley.

The Labour peer’s proposal would’ve seen a one line amendment to the Children’s Act 1989, which would “considerably extend protection to young girls at greatest risk of genital mutilation.”

Chope’s actions sparked outrage on Twitter, with many people calling for him to be deselected and reiterating their shock when the MP blocked the upskirting bill, which has since been adopted as a governmental bill and is expected to pass in the coming months.

"Can we table a bill to object to Christopher Chope shouting object?" wrote Labour MP Stella Creasy.

"This man is just beyond words," added FGM campaigner Nimco Ali.

It’s not clear why Chope decided to block this particular bill, but in June, when he did the same with upskirting, he explained that his objection was not to the bill itself but to the procedure of legislation being passed without debate.

Speaking to the Bournemouth Echo at the time, he said: "The government has been hijacking time that is rightfully that of backbenchers. This is about who controls the House of Commons on Fridays and that’s where I am coming from [...] this is something I have fought for in most of my time as an MP and it goes to the very heart of the power balance between the government and parliament.”

He later added that he did in fact support the bid to make upskirting a criminal offence.

Chope's objection to the FGM bill came just after Penny Mordaunt, the international development secretary, announced she had secured a £50m aid package to help put an end to FGM.

Berkeley congratulated Mordaunt for her landmark achievement and urged her to help him get his bill passed through the Commons.

“Amazing that Chope can halt an important improvement to the protection of young girls," he wrote on Twitter, "and how ironic that he has done so (for no discernible reason) on the day you launch this initiative."

====== 224 ========

SUPERMODEL'S MOTHER OPENS UP ON REGRET ABOUT SENDING DAUGHTER TO BOARDING SCHOOL: 'SHE DIDN'T WANT TO GO'

Camilla Lowther might be one of the most successful booking agents in the fashion industry, but the eminent businesswoman has major regrets when it comes to her supermodel daughter, Adwoa Aboah, who she sent to boarding school at the age of 13.

Aboah, who has fronted numerous brand campaigns and been on the cover of British and American Vogue, has previously spoken out her unhappy memories of being at Millfield school in Somerset, which preceded a severe struggle with depression and, when she was 22, a suicide attempt.

Now, Lowther has opened up about her daughter’s experiences, expressing guilt over sending her to the school.

“She didn’t want to go,” the agent tells The Sunday Times Style magazine, explaining how she wishes she’d never sent either of her two daughters away to board.

“I’m not a great one for regrets because there is f*** all one can do about it. But if I had my time again, I wouldn’t have sent them.”

At Millfield, which is located near Glastonbury, Aboah has claimed she struggled to fit in.

“I looked a lot different to all the other girls: everyone was blonde and blue-eyed,” she once told ES Magazine.

“It was, 'This is how you dress. This is how you do your hair, and you put loads of foundation on and wear high heels.' And I was like, 'F***, I don’t even know how to be this person’.”

Aboah explained how her insecurities drove her to drug addiction: "I wanted to take drugs, I wanted to drink, I wanted to stay out all night."

Recalling the moment her daughter attempted to take her own life, Lowther explains she was working at the time when she got "the call".

“It was right after I’d sold the business. I ran downstairs and said, ‘Charles, get your coat on, Adwoa’s tried to kill herself and she’s in an ambulance on her way to A&E.’ When we got there, she was fitting, like an epileptic.”

Lowther explains how Aboah was in an induced coma for the next four days on life support.

“We had to sit in Carluccio’s opposite Chelsea and Westminster Hospital drinking glass after glass of white wine, waiting for the news to see if she’d suffered brain damage,” she recalls.

To mark World Mental Health Day, Aboah shared an honest post on Instagram of photographs taken in the weeks after her suicide attempt, recalling how “broken” and “exhausted” she felt at the time in the caption underneath.

“For the rest of my life I promise to shine light on this illness that so many times is forgotten,” she continued.

“I promise to give the unheard a voice whenever I can, I promise to remember the girl In that photo and everything she had to go through and to protect the woman I have now become.”

For confidential support call the Samaritans on 116 123.

====== 225 ========

EMILY RATAJKOWSKI ADDRESSES CRITICS WHO TROLLED HER FOR NOT WEARING A BRA AT KAVANAUGH PROTEST

Emily Ratajkowski has hit back at critics who mocked her for not wearing a bra when she attended a protest last month against the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, who had been accused of sexual assault by Dr Christine Blasey Ford.

The model walked among protesters with the actor Amy Schumer while holding a placard with the words: “Respect female existence or expect our resistance” emblazoned across it.

Despite being there to make an important statement about Kavanaugh’s appointment, some fans remained fixated on what Ratajkowski was wearing and argued that her outfit - a white vest top and jeans - detracted from her political motivations.

Speaking to the Australian magazine Stellar, the 27-year-old said she was very surprised by the attention she received at the time.

“I knew being there would be important and I knew some people would find it controversial, but I never expected anyone to talk about why I wasn’t wearing a bra under my tank top.

“It was 32 degrees, I was marching through D.C. in jeans; my outfit seemed completely normal to me. And I was there making a political point. Why would people focus on what I was wearing?”

Both Ratajokowsi and Schumer were detained for participating in the protest, which took place at a US Senate building in Washington DC.

In a video shared on Twitter, police can be seen walking up to the two women and asking if they’d like to be arrested, to which Schumer responds “yes”. They both sat on the floor with other protestors until they were escorted out of the building.

Afterwards, when vitriol towards Ratajkowski emerged, Schumer defended her friend in a powerful Instagram post, arguing that the criticisms she had received were misguided and sexist.

“People are trolling @emrata for not wearing a bra while she got arrested. Well for starters I wasn’t wearing a bra either,” the comedian wrote in a caption underneath a selfie of her and her dog.

“In the ‘what to wear when being detained for four hours on an 87 degree day after a two hour march’ handbook. Bras aren’t recommended.

“Emily sacrificed herself fighting to protect women’s rights to choose what they do with their own bodies.

“How about we show her the same courtesy and direct some of that toxic energy to the people who deserve it?”

====== 226 ========

LENA DUNHAM MAKES POWERFUL STATEMENT ON BODY POSITIVITY WITH THROWBACK INSTAGRAM POST

Lena Dunham has shared a candid side-by-side photograph of herself on Instagram, showing how her body has changed between summer 2017 and now, explaining how much healthier and happier she is.

The Girls star originally posted the comparison shot on her Instagram story and later uploaded it as a standalone post, writing in the caption underneath: “TFW you feel it so hard that you take it from stories to feed [sic]”.

Captioning the image on the left, the 32-year-old confessed she had a damaging relationship with her body at that time: “I was very sick but fetishizing my own body.”

Commenting on the other picture, which was taken the day after Thanksgiving, Dunham explained how much more confident she feels in her own skin now, writing: “I am happy, proud and healing and so I should fetishize this body and offer her thanx [sic].”

The post was well received by Dunham’s three million Instagram followers, who praised the actor for her candour and for promoting a healthy relationship with her body.

“Thank you for celebrating healthy body shapes,” one person commented. “Beauty is found in loving ourselves in whatever shape we happen to be.”

Another added: “Thank you for always making me feel like I can love myself.”

It’s not the first time Dunham has used her social media platforms to promote body positivity.

In July, she won praise for an Instagram post revealing how much happier she is now than when she was slimmer.

The writer posted two side-by-side photographs; in one, Dunham explained that she weighed 138 pounds (63kg) and despite being “complimented all day”, she described herself as “sick in the tissue and in the head” at that time.

The other snap showed her as she is today, weighing 162 pounds (73kg), which she said makes her feel “happy joyous and free”.

In spite of how far she’s come in terms of embracing body positivity, Dunham confessed she occasionally looks back on the older picture “longingly”, but added that this feeling dissipates when she remembers “the impossible pain" she felt back then.

Concluding her caption, she added, “As I type I can feel my back fat rolling up under my shoulder blades. I lean in.”

====== 227 ========

FAT BUDDHA YOGA: THE INSTAGRAMMABLE RETREAT IN ANTIGUA FOR PEOPLE WHO LOVE PARTYING

Whether or not you have had a stressful year, autumn/winter is the best time to look ahead and plan a summer holiday. Since the boom of the yoga industry, there have been studios popping up on every nook and cranny in cities all over the world. But when it comes to your practice, a different and more relaxing environment is ideal.

Fat Buddha Yoga, the brainchild of DJ and yoga teacher Jessica Skye, has teamed up with Elite Island Resorts to launch a takeover at the Galley Bay Resort & Spa on the picturesque island of Antigua. While many retreats have previously been looked at as an Eat, Pray, Love inspired getaway, Skye's takeover offers so much more.

What does the retreat consist of?

Jessica Skye is known for her laid-back approach to yoga. So expect to hear her soft, relaxing voice over a soundtrack of beach-inspired beats thanks to her extensive knowledge of music. The day starts with an early morning yoga class at 7.30 in the pavilion on the beach, followed by breakfast and free time until late afternoon. Note that the free time in the schedule can be used to explore, head to the spa or table hop between all the restaurants on the resort. In the evening, there is a 60-minute yoga class at 4.30pm in the yoga pavilion - the perfect time to catch the sunset and updating your Instagram feeds.

Where is it?

Situated on the north-west side of the island, Galley Bay Resort & Spa features forty acres of tropical gardens, a lagoon and almost a mile of secluded beaches. The luxury resort is about a 30-minute drive from the airport, and only a 20-minute drive from Antigua's capital, St John's. In the main town, there are plenty of shops, markets and stalls selling spices to snow cones and souvenirs.

Villas

For anyone who is hoping to get a little R&R, the beach-front villas are the place to lay your head. Whether you choose to stay on the ground floor or upper floor, you will still be spoilt for choice with regards to sea views. The rooms are huge, with plenty of room to practise your handstands or downward dog before your yoga class. With a massive king-size bed, a view of white sandy beaches and sound of the lapping waves, you'll definitely have some difficulty going home. The bathroom is modest, with tiling throughout and a big bathtub to soak your muscles, or if you're feeling brave, there's a cold shower just outside your room located on the beach - perfect for rinsing off the sand after a little walk along the beach.

Extracurricular activities

Thanks to the resort's all-inclusive status, yogis can enjoy the resort's many activities on offer as well as the retreat's extensive itinerary. Not only can you learn how to sail or kayak - thanks to the resort's extremely helpful and friendly staff - but you can also get your cardio in by using the resort's gym. The retreat package does include a catamaran trip - and this is one not to be missed. You'll spend the day at sea, taking in panoramic views of the island while sipping rum cocktails and eating the local food, prepared kindly by the staff. During the trip, you'll have the opportunity to go snorkelling, so make sure you take a waterproof camera or GoPro to take home some memorable snaps.

Food and drink

Galley Bay Resort & Spa impressively boasts four restaurants, all equally serving delicious Caribbean cuisine, but all suitably different in their own way. Seagrape restaurant is a beach-front restaurant offering Euro-Caribbean cuisine, so expect freshly caught seafood and some of the finest local produce. Gaugin, which is located in one of the thatched cabanas, is a more intimate restaurant and perfect for anyone wanting a romantic candlelit dinner on the beach. Barefoot grill is a laidback restaurant located by the beach and pool, for anyone wanting to pick up a mid-day snack, including grilled quesadillas and tasty sandwiches. Ismay's - a fine dining restaurant - is located next to the villas and was used as the perfect location for yoga and breakfast, thanks to its wonderful beach-front views, including Giorgio Armani's Caribbean hideaway.

Details

The retreat is a pop-up so is not available all-year-round. The next Fat Buddha Yoga x Elite Island Resorts takeover will take place at Galley Bay Resort & Spa, Antigua from 30 June to 5 July (5- and 7- night stays available from £2,599 per person). The rate includes return flights to Antigua and accommodation on an all-inclusive basis; daily yoga classes, sunrise and sunset, over five days; a 60-minute massage at the open-air spa; a day on a catamaran exploring the island and snorkelling, including lunch; plus a luxe FBY goodie bag.

To book, call the team at 01245 458 900 and quote “Fat Buddha.” For more information, head to the website.

====== 228 ========

HOW TO MAKE BEETROOT RAVIOLI STUFFED WITH BLUE CHEESE AND WALNUTS

Beetroot ravioli stuffed with blue cheese and walnuts

Prep: 40 minutes

Beetroot shell

1 medium beetroot

1 tablespoon of lemon juice

1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil

Pinch of salt

Filling

150g blue cheese

100g walnuts

Basil

Peel the beetroot and cut into thin slices using a mandolin slicer. The slices must have flexibility, but they shouldn’t be broken easily.

Put the beets in a bowl and add the lemon juice, olive oil and salt. Mix the ingredients with your hands until all the slices are generously soaked. Let them marinate for 30 minutes and then drain.

Fill the beet slices with the blue cheese and chopped walnuts mix. Put approximately one walnut in each one to garnish.

Serve and accompany with basil and extra virgin olive oil.

Recipe from California Walnuts (californiawalnuts.uk)

====== 229 ========

TO REMEMBER TIMES PAST, I TOOK A TRIP DOWN MEMORY LANE – LITERALLY

3 November 2018. At six I wake in the box room bedroom at my grandparents that I’ve claimed as my own since coming to Cheshunt as a baby. Suddenly I’m 51: this is the last time I’ll ever sleep in this three-bed former council house on an estate on London’s northern edge. My paternal granddad Leslie died in 2014 and for over a year my nan Eileen has languished in a care home with worsening dementia, which means never again will she return to the house that for all those decades was the family home.

After my grandfather returned from war, he, Nan and my infant father moved into a two-bed semi on a large estate being built for heroes called Bury Green: one of Nan’s ways to make ends meet was to clean the newly completed houses after the workmen had finished, walking the plank across muddy foundations, my father in her arms. When a larger, three-bed place came up further in they moved, the neighbours mucking in with hand carts.

Empty houses are depressing, and this house has lain empty for more than a year; it smells dank, there are cobwebs, and half the family photographs have been removed from the wall leaving a patchwork of anachronistic memories. Soon, when Nan dies, or her savings run out, this house, the sole childhood home of my dad, uncle and auntie – which my grandparents agonised over buying due to their socialist principles – will be sold. After half a century, I look round for a final time, and close the door.

Recently I realised that dozens of places important to my family stretching back 100 years took place along the A10/New River layline between Cheshunt and Soho. The birthplace of my father, two of my grandparents and my two children; the places where I, my parents, and grandparents, met our partners and where we married; several of my former homes, plus the ones in which my mum, dad and grandparents grew up; schools and universities where me, my kids, my parents and grandparents studied and worked, are all strung along a 20-mile route which I have decided to walk in one day: a long trek into my past, back to the warm heart of my city.

The November sun is rising over “New” River (dating from 1613) at the end of the street, the same street on which Cliff Richard was raised and whose forged autographs my father sold round school as a kid. Cutting through the alley where I learnt to ride my bike and where louts often linger with flickering lighters, I leave the estate, passing the graveyard where my great-grandmother Flo is buried, and cross the metal footbridge that crosses the A10, watching trucks and cars thunder to and from London.

Being political animals, my granddad ran the tenant’s association, Nan the Labour women’s section. One day in the Fifties she invited an earnest young prospective candidate (who had no chance; despite estates like Bury Green, Cheshunt was Tory) to speak to the Labour ladies about his policies. Nan was mortified by the way the other women sat, listened and carried on knitting, needles flashing and clicking like praying mantes. The pleasant young man was Dennis Potter: years later, Nan would watch his TV play Vote, vote, vote for Nigel Barton and shudder with recognition.

As you walk east on College Road a huge tree – possibly a cedar of Lebanon – that has barely changed since I was a kid marks the start of Blindman’s Lane. Here, at 55, my paternal grandfather Leslie Piggott grew up in a bungalow without hot water, one of five siblings to Florence and Edwin Piggott, who were doubly blessed. First, because Ed was stone deaf, thus escaping the trenches; second, because he was a nursery foreman which meant there was always food on the table – unlike many homes in what in the Twenties was one of the poorest rural districts in England. (Their luck would change: their only daughter died of cancer and their son Vincent was killed in action in the Second World War).

Even when I was a kid – spending many of my school holidays in Cheshunt – the town had become a distant suburb of London, joined by the threads of rail, river and road, but back in the Seventies the town was overwhelmingly white; Tesco ran the town like the Cosa Nostra. Today’s inhabitants are more diverse and Turkish grocers surround the Old Pond; in my granddad’s youth, the only Turk most Cheshunt people would have met would have been at Gallipoli.

The grammar school my father attended has gone now, as has the former Tesco HQ where Nan worked as PA to Jack Cohen. Nan liked Jack, which is perhaps why she began insisting our relatives were Jewish, of Russian ancestry – I later discovered, to my great disappointment, this was untrue. In fact, both nan and granddad’s ancestors were Londoners; Nan’s from Bermondsey, Granddad’s Homerton. There had long been a family rumour that Granddad’s own granddad was arrested on suspicion of being Jack the Ripper; I didn’t believe it until I turned up this item, from the East London Observer, 15 September 1888: “…A man named Piggott [was arrested], at Gravesend, by Sergeant Berry. Piggott, whose clothes were blood-stained. He confessed to having been in Brick-lane on Saturday morning, but it being proved that he was insane, he was sent to the Whitechapel Infirmary.”

At Old Pond roundabout – where Vincent Piggott’s name is inscribed on the war memorial – I turn right down Turners Hill, past the library where my grandfather worked as a teen before discovering the money in the factory was better, past the site of long-demolished Merston House where he was born in 1915. Turners Hill merges into Crossbrook Street, which runs down to Waltham Cross (still as ugly as the day I was born) and has another family connection. In 1944, when my father Michael was just two weeks old, my grandfather wrote him a letter from his RAF base:

“On a certain April evening in 1939, my pal ‘Ginger’ Liddard and I were off for a stroll and a drink along Crossbrook Street to Waltham Cross. In those days, I’m afraid, I was rather a heavy drinker, but anyhow I’ll leave the explanation of my sins until later, so back to my story. We had just passed Cheshunt Building Society when all of a sudden we heard a ‘Hullo’ from the opposite side of the road, and when ‘Ging’ and I looked over we saw, what appeared to us in the dim light, a pair of very young girls. We stuck our noses in the air, said ‘schoolgirls trying to be funny!’ and passed on our way to the nearest pub. On our way back to Cheshunt we ran into the two ‘schoolgirls’ again, this time on our side of the road, and lo! And behold! They were not schoolgirls but very pleasurable young ladies of some 17 years of age…”

Places change: so, too our perceptions. I used to associate Archway with pubs, kebabs and scary underpasses now sealed over; but that was in another life

One of the girls was one Eileen Ball from Enfield. The pair began courting; Nan was much impressed by Granddad’s good manners, smart appearance and relative affluence; as a skilled toolmaker he earned double most of his contemporaries. In 1940, Granddad was given leave from the RAF where he now worked as a Spitfire mechanic beneath Guy Gibson to marry Nan at St George’s Church, Hertford Road. The photographs of their wedding day will be instantly familiar to anyone with English ancestry: grandfather in uniform, grandmother in white. Go into any English home and you’ll find variations on the theme: an ancestor in uniform, smiling uncertainly into the lens (not wanting to be at the centre of this or indeed of anything), a determined, set look; keep calm, and if you come home carry on propagating the genes.

St George’s has hardly changed, to my unpractised eye: red brick, imposing, small memorial garden out front where a mourning woman lays flowers. A couple of streets further down I pass Unity Road, where my father was born in 1944. Bombing raids were a part of life: years later my nan, an air raid warden in the factory where she worked, recalled:

“When Michael was about six weeks old, early one evening, I was breastfeeding him when we heard the sound of what we thought was a hit plane coming down. I shot under the table in my mum’s dining room crouching over Michael, who, luckily, was blissfully unaware of the danger and went on suckling!”

Unity Road is suburban, low-rise, and seems more affluent than the surrounding blocks. I have a photograph from May 1945 of a Unity Estate VE tea party, Nan holding my father in her arms (unmissable, due to her habit of tippexing outlines round family members in any group photos). Now, on the corner, perhaps on the very site of that street party, stands a vast Lidl.

From Unity Road it’s a slog through scrofulous suburbs and a characterless stretch of the A10 (the factories in which Granddad worked – Murex, Thorns, Manifold – are now retail parks) to Bertram Road, Bush Hill Park. My nan was born at 104, and grew up at 122, poor, half her father’s weekly wage of £2 from Ediswans lightbulb factory going on the rent.

Nan’s dad, Arthur Ball – a name I imagine caused some merriment in the factory – also worked in the factories up the A10. Enfield was heavily industrialised and would be a prime target during the war. One of Arthur’s workmates was Jimmy Dimmock: he worked in the factory all week, then turned out for Spurs of a Saturday. When unemployed, which was often, Arthur – teetotal, musician, talented painter – set up a group for dole-drawers in a hut. He sat Eileen on his knee when she was five and explained how everyone had a right to clean linen; nan took it to heart. She left school at fourteen to help out and got a job at the same factory as her dad, where she was known like all the typists as an “office tart”, and at dinner time Arthur would come through the rubber doors that separated classes (factory and office pool) with his trolley and give her jam sandwiches; a taste of an older England long since gone to Pot Noodle.

Despite her poverty, Nan’s memories of childhood are generous and rich, recalling games in the street, kids in and out of one another’s houses, evenings round the piano, doting grandparents nine doors down.

The current occupier of Nan’s childhood home, Peter, generously lets me come in and see the place Nan was raised. Peter, a rough, friendly decorator of 53, and his wife have lived here for years but are shortly moving to Winchmore Hill.

I’m surprised at the size of the house, with its big back garden and kitchen extension, and have to remind myself that when Nan lived here the extension wouldn’t have existed, and lacked even electricity, let alone flatscreen TV.

From Bertram Road it’s a drab, dreary walk to Arnos Grove, passing through the middle-class ghetto of Winchmore Hill (where my mother grew up in the station house), the site of Minchenden Grammar (which Mum attended with Lynne Franks and Martin Rushent), Mum’s first place of work – the Metal Box Company on the North Circular – to the former council flat where her father, my maternal granddad, resides. All these suburban streets look the same, and I keep getting lost: at one low point I have to double back and walk a mile out of my way uphill. I’m less than halfway through my odd odyssey and exhausted, and for the first time begin to worry I won’t make it, chide myself for failing to do any preparation whatsoever – unless you count walking to the offie.

Despite Granddad’s claims, the Piggotts weren’t drinkers and the Balls of Methodist stock so when it comes to alcohol, I must take after my mum’s parents. My mum’s mum, Kit Walsh, had to leave Ireland when she got pregnant; there are rumours Mum has an older sibling somewhere who was given away. When I was born my nan was still only 36; she’d give me whiskey to help me sleep. Nan was what you might call a character, and great fun. On one occasion when I stayed as a kid, she came in saying she’d just met Jesus on the tube. We thought she’d finally lost it; then it transpired she’d met Robert Powell and given him whiskey from the bottle she kept in her fake fur coat and taught him to sing The Men Behind The Wire.

Now 95, Jack Brown has lived in a smart three-bed flat in one of the four-storey blocks for 50 years, raising with Kit six children. Many of my holidays as a child were divided between here and Cheshunt, between my two sets of grandparents. Today all the blocks are covered in scaffolding, making them seem grimmer than ever: there’s no entry phone and when I bang on Granddad’s door he shouts fearfully from within: “Who’s that?”

“Me, Granddad. Mark.” (Adding, as always: “Sandy’s son.”)

Granddad opens the door, looking every day of 95: he is short, as are all my forebears, five two, stocky, face still fierce, still with a purple boozer’s nose though he can no longer drink anything but J2O. He shuffles back to the lounge on his walking stick and we sit at his desk. Kit died at Chase Farm in 2008; a few years later my mum’s youngest brother, my uncle, five years younger than me, assaulted his dad and went to prison. An exclusion order remains in place, and now Granddad’s only visitors are a daughter and her partner. I ask Granddad how he is.

“Not so good,” he growls, still with a faint Ipswich burr in his accent after all the decades. “I got robbed.” A week earlier, two young men posing as workmen on the renovation used fake ID cards to gain access; one distracted my grandfather while the other took £400 he’d been saving to buy his communist chums a pint for his birthday. A few days later, just down the road, a 98-year-old was beaten almost to death for his TV.

Granddad looks shaken, vulnerable: this family is no stranger to bleak times (Nan mugged on her way home from Bingo, Uncle Liam, stabbed, Uncle Liam, brain-damaged, Uncle Liam, diagnosed with MS, Uncle Liam – who gave me my middle name – who died this year), but I sense this might be the last straw. What a sad end for a man who stood as a Communist Party MP, who dived into burning seas to save Navy comrades after his ship was torpedoed, who worked for 40 years for British Rail, where he showed John Betjeman how to change signals and who once travelled to Moscow with Kit by train. Nan Brown often told me how they were invited to a grand ball in Moscow and as they ascended the sweeping staircase she hissed at my grandfather: “Jack! Your flies are undone!” “That’s nothing,” said Granddad. “You’ve got your dress tucked in your knickers.”

Leaving Granddad, I walk downhill towards Wood Green, reflecting yet again on the astonishing durability of my family genes: at 20 I had four great-grandparents, at 40 all four grandparents still breathed, and even now two grandparents remain, my father’s mother and my mother’s father. Now I recall Nan Piggott telling me of the reception at my mum and dad’s wedding, where my Irish nan’s contribution to the buffet was a string of uncooked sausages and where during a slow dance Jack slid his hand down over Eileen’s bottom as his wife suggested wife-swapping to shocked Granddad Piggott: two very different families, brought together only briefly in a ceremony at Haringey Civic Centre, my mum’s black dress bulging visibly, guests including Fairport Convention.

Neither my mum or dad recalls the date they married (the marriage itself only lasted two years), but both recall where I was conceived: at a Socialist Labour League conference in Morecambe, shortly after friend-of-the-Redgraves Gerry Healy told Mum: “I will sleep with you on the eve of the revolution.”

For a time, Mum and Dad lived in Rosebery Road, Muswell Hill, in a house with a shared bathroom; Mum recalls bopping around the living room to Dizzy Gillespie as her belly expanded. Dad was quite the lad about town in the mid-Sixties: hanging out in jazz clubs and shebeens, a groovy dude in velvet pantaloons. Once, he tells me, Rod Stewart nicked his dope; another time he was on the door of a party in Chelsea when four scruffy looking louts tried to enter. Dad barred their way, to be informed he’d bounced the Rolling Stones. Dad got into an unspecified spot of bother and the young couple went north to Manchester, where I was born: a northerner in spirit but not a drop of northern blood.

From Wood Green it’s another slog, through Hornsey and Crouch End and up the hill to Hornsey Rise, then right along Hornsey Lane, thoroughly exhausted now, wolfing eclairs and Coke, the unseasonal November sun blinding. Just before Suicide Bridge – immortalised, if that’s the word, in my first novel Fire Horses – a passing white van smashes the wing mirror of a parked van and the debris of glass and torn metal hits me: the van doesn’t stop. Nor do I. Standing on the bridge I look down over the bowl of my city, London proper.

Empty houses are depressing, and this house has lain empty for more than a year; it smells dank, there are cobwebs, and half the family photographs have been removed from the wall leaving a patchwork of anachronistic memories

Archway Tower – where I used to sign on – has been transformed into an apartment block, reflecting the transformation of an area which in the 1980s – when I lived in a condemned row for three mostly unhappy years – was dubbed “where angels fear to tread”. We stuck the article on the wall, a badge of pride. Much of those years are now just a blur: dropping acid during the Great Hurricane, drinking with Pete Postlethwaite; a blazing row with Kathy Acker.

In my first published story, “Hatful of Holloway”, I imagined a terror attack in which Archway Tower is blown up and falls onto what used to be the Archway Tavern, a rough Irish pub where they cashed your giros at a counter and men waited each morning at six for the van to the site. The same year that story was published, I was at Archway Station with my wife and baby daughter when we heard about the 7/7 terror attacks: I remember looking down Junction Road, trying to work out the safest way home with our precious pram cargo, and suddenly it looked like a corridor of glass.

Places change: so, too our perceptions. I used to associate Archway with pubs, kebabs and scary underpasses now sealed over; but that was in another life. Crossing Highgate Hill, where Dick Whittington turned again, I walk down Dartmouth Park Hill, past the Whittington Hospital where two years apart our two children were born in the same delivery room, a continuation of a process of self-gentrification that mirrors the new N19, where plastered Irish builders have become Damian Lewis and Benedict Cumberbatch. My Irish nan drank in the Boston in the 1950s, telling me how anyone who refused to put money in the IRA collection plate was thrown out the window; the Boston remains satisfyingly down-market, with racing on the TV and smokers congregating at the door even as goths queue for the Dome next door.

Limping past Cathcart Hill, where I lived from 1999 to 2013 with my wife and then our two children; after nine brief months in the country we were pulled back, to Finsbury Park (where, in 1987, I presented Network Seven and hung out with junkies on Six Acre and Andover) and then back to the manor, to Warrender Road, where we live today.

Utterly exhausted I enter the house: my wife makes me tea and sandwiches, Daughter, 14, teases me about my bedraggled appearance; Son, 12 shows me the game he’s been creating on his laptop. It would be so easy to sit here and sleep: but I have made a promise, to myself at least, so after dumping my bag I say goodbye and walk, past Mercers Road, the first house in London I lived in aged 18, where a regular visitor – much to my excitement – was Roland “Fine Young Cannibals” Gift, then at the peak of his fame. In the distance I see London Met on Holloway Road, where I took a degree 10 years later, and where, 10 years after that, my first novel was launched (and sank without trace).

Past Lloyds Bank at Highbury Corner, part of which used to be a curry house above which I shared a room with my oldest friend which had no windows, and maggots on the carpet, and where we had to place a disconnected door in the door-shaped hole to allow the other to defecate in peace. Where, the day in 1991 I received the letter confirming I’d been allocated my own little flat, I picked up a bottle of cider from the floor, took a swig in celebration, then realised it contained urine.

Highbury Corner, where the Islington Twins used to hang out, and those older, odder twins used to walk up and down in matching checked suits, and where I once slept in bushes at the centre of the roundabout, and The Cock, where Arthur Mullard made me get off his stool. Down Upper Street, past 127, the site of Brown and Blair’s infamous Granita Pact, which I mentioned in a novel; past the red-brick Municipal Office where I both worked and signed on; past the town hall where in 2003 my wife and I were the first to be married in the chambers: we appear on council literature. My mum and dad met just around the corner, at an SLL meeting: they saw eye to eye, not only politically, but physically, dad being 5ft 2in, mum 4ft 11in.

Between them they were over 10ft tall.

To the Angel and past Nags Head, for so many years our pub of choice: sometimes when I had no money I’d walk up and down Upper Street for hours, watching all the drinkers behind warm glass. Taking a right up White Lion Street I pass a Hilton, bemused: in the 1980s King’s Cross was still rough. Up York Way, we attended “acid rock” warehouse parties in 1986; today I turn south onto Amwell Street, passing the flats where I lived with J and her mum back in 1989-90 before it all fell apart (all me – my bad).

Filthy McNasty’s – where I set a key scene of my first book, and once drank with Shane MacGowan – is now the George and Monkey. One night on mushrooms I had a bad trip there, and Amwell Street extended to eternity. At Roseberry Avenue I pass Finsbury Town Hall, where I was once best man, stinking drunk because I’d just been on the telly.

Exmouth Market had pie’n’mash and jellied eels when I lived in the Peabody Flats (1991-98); I pass the pub where the blind man used to give his guide dog Guinness in an ashtray. Down the steps I staggered down a thousand times: in Australia, 1994, homesick, I was watching A Fish Called Wanda when I saw those same steps, my own flat. I look up at the tiny bedsit where I lived and died a thousand deaths, crushed by loneliness and rage; some rainy winter Sundays I would walk from my flat to the Thames without seeing a soul, go days without uttering a word. I became so introverted, so lacking in confidence and self-esteem that I began to imagine a huge coat which as I walked through the snow would erase all my footsteps, leave no trace. But then Clerkenwell Green around the corner is where I explained to J that one day, I would be quite the catch, and she laughed; and at Clerkenwell Green I learnt my first novel was to be published.

I’d only been living in Farringdon Lane a few months when a new neighbour moved into the flat directly upstairs. By a bizarre coincidence it was J’s best friend D, with whom we’d once trekked across Europe; D now worked as a childminder for Mike Leigh and told him about this strange event. A year or two later, when Naked was released, I was somewhat perturbed by the similarities between the Thewlis character and myself. Pure coincidence, of course; though later, when D told me about Secrets and Lies and I asked if it was about her, D laughed and said – “No, Mark – it’s about you. Again.”

When I first got involved with the magazine, I was also still vaguely involved with Class War, agitating at Wapping, appearing on page 2 of The Sun holding a misspelt banner; when Princess Anne came to tour the youth project I was locked in a room because they were scared that I’d burst out with placards.

It has grown dark, and as I begin the final stretch to Soho in my long back coat, I feel invisible. Am I really here, or just another ghost in a city full of ghosts from Roman armies to Amy Winehouse? My steps and breath shorten; the pain in my thighs, calves, feet, hips intensify: but now I know I will make it.

I pass the Phoenix, site of my second book launch in 2010, when it seemed authordom was mine and easy. Eighteen months later I was back on the dole. As I limp up Shaftesbury Avenue each step is a torment, but now I see my destination just across the road, in Soho proper: The Coach and Horses.

Why end here? Well, I had to end somewhere, so why not a pub – one I frequented when Jeffrey Bernard propped up the bar, and I had to restrain a mate from flattening Norman Balon who’d called him a cunt, and where, years later, for two short hours, I was part of the media aristocracy?

Entering, I order a Guinness. The barmaid smiles and serves. I check my pedometer: 48,664 steps, 20.7 miles. No, there’s another reason I picked this pub.

1999: My lowest ebb. Having graduated from college and secured an agent I borrowed £10,000 from a bank in anticipation of the advance that was surely coming, and never did. With fellow loons I drifted across the capital, drinking and taking whatever else I could find all night and day, sometimes sleeping rough; at one point in Oxford Street I lay on the bonnet of a car and was carried for several hundred yards. Then, later, as police came to arrest me for causing a disturbance in my flats, I smashed my fist through a window and almost severed the hand entirely; I was rushed to hospital but after being bandaged left again, still buzzing. Next morning a doctor removed the temporary bandage and I saw my severed wrist, tendons and veins dangling, like a robot; I was rushed back to hospital for emergency surgery.

A few days later I wandered into the Coach and Horses, Soho, where a pretty trainee nurse from Liverpool smiled and seeing my ragged, loose sling said in a kind voice:

“Are you OK?”

====== 230 ========

LONG READS

====== 231 ========

7 BEST COMPUTER MICROPHONES

While computers on the market tend to come with internal microphones capable of picking up the sound of your voice, they’re often poorly suited for even the most pedestrian video chat, not to mention recording your Pulitzer-worthy podcast or fronting a 12-hour session of Fortnite.

Let’s face it, we all need a little help from our mics, and below are our picks for the 7 best computer mics, for all your audio-ins and outs.

Blue Snowball Condenser Microphone: $44.99, Amazon

Here’s another desktop mic that makes recording quick and easy, with the added benefit of a sleek design that harkens an era when audio was king. Simply mount Snowball iCE on the included adjustable stand, plug the USB cable and start recording.

The mic also comes with an optional pop filter that eliminates sounds caused when fast moving air hits the mic. While not necessary, it’s a nice addition if you’re seeking professional grade content.

Buy now

Blue Yeti USB Microphone: $129, B&H

With a design that may make you think you’re spinning 45s in a smoke-filled radio booth, the Blue Yeti USB Microphone employs a tri-capsule design that is capable of capturing your audio in up to 16-bit/48 kHz resolution.

Depending on your sound source, you can select between stereo, cardioid, omnidirectional, or bi-directional polar patterns for optimal results. The mic also comes in a variety of colors and includes an integrated headphone amp with an independent gain control for latency-free monitoring. It’s intended to simplify the recording process and is suited for professionals and hobbyists alike.

Buy now

Audio-Technica AT2020 USB+ Desktop Pack Kit: $199, B&H

The Audio-Technica AT2020 Kit has similar specs to Blue Yeti’s microphone, with the added benefit of a full set of accessories (including reflection and pop filters), making this kit ideal for singer/songwriters, podcasters, voiceover artists, field recorders, and home studio recordings.

The RFDT-128 Desktop Reflection Filter and Mic Stand from Auray features high-density acoustic foam and a perforated aluminum screen that absorbs and blocks room noise and reflections that can commonly occur in acoustically untreated rooms, so you can record professional level audio without the need for soundproofing.

Buy now

Fifine Technology USB Microphone, Fifine Plug & Play Home Studio USB Condenser Microphone: $21.99, Amazon

Here’s a no-frills mic from Fifine Technology that, while on the lower end of the cost spectrum, still embodies a major improvement when compared with your computer’s internal microphone.

The plug and play home studio condenser mic has a smooth, flat frequency response of 50Hz-16KHz that’s excellent for singing, speeches, and voice-overs. And with a USB hook-up, all you need to do is plug it in.

Buy now

THRONMAX MDrill Zero USB Condenser Microphone: $69.90, Amazon

THRONMAX Microphone's MDrill Zero is a sleek product that requires no complicated drivers to operate. Simply plug it into your computer's USB port with the included USB cable, and you're ready to record.

The MDrill is designed for gamers, streamers, and YouTubers, but is also great for musicians and vocalists… not to mention conference calls, meetings, and interviews. Either way, the 8kHz 16 Bit resolution will give you professional audio results.

Buy now

Miktek Audio PROCAST-SST: $199.00, Full Compass

The ProCast SST is another quality USB studio condenser microphone, with the distinction of several professional upgrades, including an integrated radio style boom and a mixer section offering two inputs, which can be used to connect multiple mics.

With an on-board 24 Bit audio interface, this piece is like a portable studio equipped to record live interviews or music with multiple vocal tracks. Each input features a Mic/Line switch, Clip LED, a 60 mm studio quality fader and a mute switch.

Buy now

Sennheiser PC 131 Binaural Headset: $54.05, Amazon

The only headset on our list, the Sennheiser PC 151 Binaural mic is designed for gamers, though is also perfectly suited to video chats, and other recording needs. Say you’re a telemarketer with cash to burn, this piece is a sure-thing with its stereo audio, single-sided cable jack, and in-line volume control and mic mute capability.

Buy now

Verdict: Best computer microphones

For the best overall value, we highly recommend the Snowball Condenser Mic from Blue. Not only does it have a sleek design but you’ll also be hard pressed to find a piece of better quality for under 50 dollars.

If you have a bit more to spend and need something that records studio-grade audio from multiple sources, the Miktek Audio PROCAST-SST from Full Compass has the extra specs that make the additional money spent worthwhile, when compared to the cost of soundproofing a studio.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 232 ========

10 BEST WOMEN'S BATHROBES

Bathrobes are one of those everyday luxuries that you don’t truly appreciate until it slips seamlessly into your daily routine. Sure, you could use a towel after the shower or throw on a sweater if you get a little cold - but you’d be missing out. Whether you’re looking for post-shower comfort or an extra layer on chilly mornings; a deliciously plush cotton or a lightweight silk, we’ve found a bathrobe to fit your needs.

There are a few important factors to consider when making your choice. How much are you willing to spend, both on purchase point and maintenance? Higher quality fabrics might cost more upfront but will often reward you with longer lifespans, resulting in a cheaper cost-per-wear. However, a "dry-clean only" label will mean sufficiently higher cost to you throughout the robe’s usage. Most simply: cottons should be safe in the washing machine but silk or cashmere will require dry-cleaning.

Next, consider how you want to use your robe. Do you have very cold winters, during which an extra thick layer will become your best friend? If so, look to plush fabric and fleece linings. Is your robe primarily going to be used after bathing, in which case absorbency and quick-drying is paramount? Or this is something you’d like to slip on for lazy mornings or indulgent evenings, something to make you feel good and pulled-together even in your pajamas?

Our list includes a pick for each of these scenarios. All robes were worn several times and washed at home (where appropriate), to be sure they stand up to regular use, so these are choices that you can trust will last you day in, day out. Although if you wanted to buy multiple, for different occasions, we wouldn’t blame you.

Coyuchi Mediterranean Organic Robe: $148, Coyuchi

This unassuming robe has a lot more than meets the eye; slip it on and you’ll immediately notice how surprisingly soft it is. The smooth cotton has been woven into an almost quilted design, which gives the fabric both subtle texture and a pleasant structure. The silhouette is flattering yet expansive – shorter arms might require cuffed sleeves – and the front pockets are equally generous. Made from the same fabric as Coyuchi’s popular Mediterranean towels, the robe is fast-drying and a perfect choice after bathing.

Buy Here

Restoration Hardware Cashmere Spa Robe: $329, Restoration Hardware

This is a robe of pure indulgence. Premium cashmere was loomed into a jersey knit, rendering a robe that is unbelievably soft and warm yet still lightweight. This is an expensive purchase, there is no getting around that, but it’s the kind of robe that you’d get a lot of mileage out of. The two patch pockets, knee-length style and soft neutral tones make this suitable for all times of day, for all ages, for all tastes. This would make a particularly special gift for a family member or friend who deserves a daily dose of luxury.

Buy Here

Susannah Cotton Kimono Robe: $74.95, Susannah Cotton

Made of 100% cotton and hand-printed in Jaipur, India, these kimonos are sold from a small independent store in England that ships internationally. Extremely light and smooth on the skin, the fabric comes in multiple limited-edition prints in rich blues, reds and neutrals so that they’ll look good all year round. This isn’t for post-shower but rather for extra comfort and style around the home – actually it would look as great over a white Tee and jeans as it would first thing in the morning, thanks to the slightly starched drape. They only come in one size but the longer length and loose style means that they accommodate US sizes 6-14.

Buy Here

HANRO Robe Selection Long Plush Robe with Hood: $219-295, HANRO​

Everyone knows their ideal hotel bathrobe: soft fleece on the inside but lightweight toweling on the outside; a generous fit for relaxed lounging but still a flattering cut for when you open the door for room service. HANRO’s option provides the best of this, with their Long Plush Robe with Hood. The shape is classic and sophisticated over the body, while the addition of a hood manages to achieve both added comfort and a sense of playfulness – without looking like the kid’s choice.

Buy Here

L.L. Bean Winter Fleece Robe, Wrap-Front: $79.99, L.L. Bean

Brutal winters be gone: the winter fleece robe by L.L. Bean is here. Extra thick and extra plush, you’ll be wearing this from the first flurry of winter through to spring’s first blooms. This robe comes in bright red and blue shades, as well as subtler navy and gray tones, and comes with two large front pockets and an inside tie for maximum practicality. Not only is this the softest of options in this category, but it’s machine-washable and frequently on sale – it might be your most durable and smart winter purchase this year.

Buy Here

Parachute Classic Robe: $99, Parachute

When you can’t choose between maximum comfort and effective absorbency, look to the Parachute Classic Robe. There’s a reason that this product had a waiting list; it works and then some. The fabric is made from especially plush, 100% Turkish cotton that’s as suitable right after the shower as it is for cold temperatures. It comes only in pure white but the fit is generous – both in length and on the sleeves, even the pockets are large and slouchy! Don’t worry if you anticipate envy from your partner; the four sizes are all unisex.

Buy Here

L.L. Bean Scotch Plaid Flannel Robe: $64.95, L.L. Bean

If you’re more the type to wear a flannel shirt than a silky robe, then this Scotch Plaid robe by L.L. Bean is the ideal choice. So lightweight that it doesn’t even feel like you’re wearing an extra layer, the soft Portuguese flannel and plaid prints make for a perfect casual vibe. Cozy yet cool, this is the kind of thing you’ll throw on first thing in the morning and somehow find yourself still wearing hours later. The flannel robe also has a relaxed fit and long length that actually makes it the perfect unisex choice (although there are men’s and women’s sizes available).

Buy Here

Josie Natori Key Kimono Robe: $277-395, Natori​

The plain black silk robe is a classic for a reason; the fabric is sumptuous and dreamily slippery, while the silhouette is a great blend of sophisticated and sexy. However, pure silk means a hefty price tag and dry clean-only maintenance, so consider this an investment. For those willing to spend though, you can’t go wrong with this piece by Josie Natori, Natori’s luxury range. The wide, cropped sleeves are a nice modern twist but otherwise the robe has all the fundamentals: flattering shawl collar, dramatic full-length and a sleek tie waist.

Buy Here

Snowe Classic Bathrobe: $98, Snowe

For many, a bathrobe serves a specific function: post-shower comfort. For that, you can’t do better than Snowe’s terry cloth offering. Soft and plush without being too heavy, the fabric absorbs quickly and dries nearly as fast, ensuring it’s ready for every bathing occasion. It’s no-fuss, available only in three white unisex sizes, but this robe will keep you warm and dry without breaking the bank. Hitting between knee and mid-calf depending on your height, you might find yourself lingering in this robe long after you step out of the shower… If you want hotel-style comfort in your own home, Snowe is where to look.

Buy Here

Natori Shangri-La Robe: $69.98, Natori

If you’re looking for the smoothness of silk but the price and maintenance of cotton, then go for jersey; specifically, Natori’s Shangri-La robe. One of the brand’s bestsellers, it comes in multiple neutral and pastel shades and from size XS-2X, making it the most versatile option on our list. Although the fabric is thin, it doesn’t cling unflatteringly to the body and the cropped sleeves ensure maximum mobility. While this won’t keep out freezing temperatures, it’s a great year-round option for a little extra warmth and style.

Buy Here

The Verdict: Best bathrobes

You can't go wrong with any of the robes on this list, but if you are looking for a robe that combines comfort, durability and style, the Coyuchi Mediterranean robe is your best choice. The fast-drying technology is also a great bonus.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 233 ========

10 BEST RUNNING SHOES

Whether you like to run on the busy pathways of Central Park in New York City, the waterfront views of Stanley Park in Vancouver or the breathtaking view of the Golden Gate Park -- having a good run all begins with wearing the appropriate footwear. And whether you like your running sessions short and sweet and or you’re planning on doing a marathon, we’ve tested different types of running shoes that will fit your feet and fit your goals.

From the big brands to the ones we believe you should discover (but are available in the United States), here are the running shoes Indybest thinks are worth investing in for the summertime, and after...

We’ve tested the running shoes' power, weight, endurance, quality, comfort - and, of course, the look, because we know it matters as well.

Here are Indybest’s 10 running shoes you should watch for in 2018, and we wish you a pleasant and sweaty run!

On Cloud: $129.99, On

The Brand On was created in the French Alps and with its performances based on soft-landing and explosive take off, made it to New York City. The brand is now available in more than 400 sports retailers as well as online. The running shoes are flexible, light as air, and the cutting-edge technology of this quite recent but successful brand is worth investing in. Overall, Indybest believes the On Cloud offers the best running experience and a fair price for the quality product it delivers. The running shoes are equipped with an elastic lacing replacing a regular one, which makes them easy to put on and go.

Buy now

Reebok Floatride Ultraknit: $150, Reebok

The Reebok Floatride Ultraknits are light and give space to breathe, yet, they support your feet. The modern design, as well as the quality confection, make the running shoe part one of our top picks of this year’s Indybest running shoes list. The name says it: your run will feel like you are floating, and this type of running shoes will be effective on city streets but could also be used on trails. The shoe is durable, and the quality will make your run an enjoyable trip wherever your daily exercise takes you.

Buy now

New Balance Fresh Foam 1080v8: 149.99, New Balance

A close contender to the two first ones, New Balance’s Fresh Foam 1080v8 has everything a runner is looking for: comfort, durability, and power. It is equipped with a breathable engineered mesh upper with a thick mid sole that perfectly absorbs the impact of the ground, which makes it the runner’s best friend. Overall, Indybest believes the eighth version of the Fresh Foam 1080 is worth investing in as its quality helps reduce the impact of the run on your body, and will make the running experience all the more enjoyable.

Buy Now

Mizuno Wave Sky 2: $110, Mizuno

Putting your foot in Mizuno’s Wave Sky 2 is like putting your foot in a box of pillows: The cushion is thick but does not make the shoes super heavy either. The Wave Sky 2 is meant for road running but its quality material could makes it an appropriate shoe for other environments too. It has the right amount of cushioning necessary for longer runs, and the propulsion needed for a quicker and shorter one. Overall, although the Wave Sky 2 are slightly heavier than the previous running shoes reviewed, we still recommend Mizuno’s Wave Sky 2.

Buy Now

Reebok Sweet Road SE: $99.97, Reebok

First of all, the design of these running shoes is incredible, which, although we do not always want to acknowledge it, is a big plus. But the Sweet Road SE is more than style: it’s light, provides good support and is made of quality material. Furthermore, it is also affordable. Indybest wouldn’t recommend the Sweet Road SE for the marathoner, but it is a fair pair of running shoes for short distances, on regular roads. The shoes are comfortable and the cushioning is also effective.

Buy Now

On Cloudflyer: $159.00, On

The On Cloudflyer is slightly heavier than the Cloud, but it also means more durable and versatile. You can take the Cloudflyer almost anywhere, and the thick cushion (thicker than the cloud) propels every movement to accompany your body in any performance. For those who are not convinced of the cloud's elastic laces, this one is equipped with regular ones. Although in terms of performance, weight and quality material, On’s cloud came up first, the quality, versatility and durability of the cloudflyer makes it a good option for the runner who likes to run short and long distances on different types of pathways.

Buy Now

Hoka One One Clifton 5: $130, Hoka One One

Hoka One One Clifton 5 offers a different running experience: It is the high heel of the running shoes, but it has the comfort of a marshmallow. For those of you who were already sold to Hoka, you won’t be disappointed. These running shoes are meant for longer distances, and runners who want shoes that’ll support you feet no matter how long your run for. Overall, this shoe is for very specific needs that do not fit every runner.

Buy now

Icebug Acceleritas RB9X: $129.95, Icebug

There’s one word that would describe the need of an Icebug’s use: traction. Icebug’s unique running shoes technology offers high-traction that suits any environment, in any weather. Its technology also means the shoes is very thin and your feet will be close to the ground - for better and for worse. The Swedish company was founded in 2001, and since then has developed top-quality running shoes that looks like a hybrid between a running and a soccer shoes. The result is successful, as the experience is stable and the shoes are light. The shoes are meant to be used in any kind of weather and environment. For those who want to experience a different type of running shoes, Icebug’s Acceleritas is a good option.

Buy Now

New Balance Fresh Foam Zante V4: $99.99, New Balance

New Balance’s Fresh Foam Zante was called “master of none” in the past, but it could also be called the “master of all.” Effective on short and long distances, the lightweight body of the shoes also make it effective as a long-distance running shoe. Indybest thought New Balance’s fourth edition of this running shoes is versatile, comfortable, and performing, and with a price that fair, we would highly recommend it.

Buy now

APL Techloop Phantoms: $165, APL

These running shoes are not your usual running shoes. The APL Techloom Phantoms are for the city runners who want to be stylish while doing their daily training. The shoes are light and comfortable, but they certainly won’t resist a series of long runs in a trail environment or something similar. Overall, the APL Techloom phantoms are probably the nicest-looking running shoes but are meant for the beginner runners who want to run a few miles every week.

Buy Now

The verdict: running shoes

We believe the best overall performance, and the best value for the price goes to On’s Cloud, which is also a brand we believe you should discover if you’re a serious runner. For the runners among you who do not intend to train for a marathon, New Balance’s Fresh Foam Zante V4 or Reebok’s Sweet Road Se come in second and third place. Finally, if you only like to run a few miles a week and want to be stylish, APL’s Techloop Phantoms are a good, although pricey option. Enjoy your run!

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 234 ========

5 BEST HAIRDRYERS

As we’re heading into the midst of autumn, the time has come, to pull out and dust off the hair dryer, because "sun" drying, will soon no longer be something we can all get away with. On the plus side, with the humidity *hopefully* subsiding in the next couple of months, ladies with frizzy hair can go back to having a beautifully-crafted mane.

Finding the right dryer can be a hassle and many want to invest in a luxury item that would serve them for years to come. We have done the legwork and collected five luxury hair dryers that may have a substantial price tag but do deliver a salon-worthy styling in the comfort of your home. It’s not only the mousses and styling creams that make the difference, you need the whole package – the tools used are just as important as your favorite thickening spray for creating a healthy looking sleek or voluminous blowout.

Your hair will thank you later because high-quality dryers make all the difference to tame the flyaways and frizz. Especially now that the industry has quietly evolved from basic "found-in-hotel-room-one-setting-dryer" to include: precise airstreams, volume booster switches, cold shots, not to mention multiple heat and airspeed settings. In particular, many high-end dryers have focused to include ionic technology which help hair products works better with your hair and help water evaporate faster, resulting in shorter dry time.

All items were tested within the space of a month of each other and no hair products were used that would influence volume, sleekness, anti-frizz etc to make sure the tests were as objectively "dryer-focused" as possible.

Many stylists recommend drying hair that's been towel-dried so that it’s not dripping and keeping the hair dryer at least six inches away from hair at all times - which we did.

T3 Cura Luxe Hair Dryer: $285, T3Micro​

The space rocket of hair dryers, the Cura Luxe looks like it is straight out of the future. What the brand describes as a “next-generation hair dryer,” is really that. Cura Luxe has a sleek shape and five heat settings that are flawlessly integrated into the handle with an auto-pause sensor that turns off airflow the moment you move your hand, making styling your hair that much easier. Other unique features include a lock-in cool shot button to cool the roots, and a volume booster switch that enhances volume and texture. This dryer is precise but not crazy with the heat and the digital IonAir technology allows the frizz and pesky flyaways to be tamed - delivering sleek, smooth and shiny results.

Buy now

Nanoe Moisture Infusion Hair Dryer: ~$100, Panasonic

A slightly-cheaper alternative to the others on the list but nonetheless incredibly effective. This dryer “infuses moisture-rich nanoe particles which hold 1,000 times more moisture than regular ions into hair while blow drying,” according to the brand. What’s most interesting is that it feels like your high school dryer but with unique and modern upgrades. Nanoe comes with a full-size diffuser, dual-airflow quick-dry nozzle, and a concentrator nozzle, which are fun to experiment with when styling. The concentrator nozzle is great for those looking to style for volume using a round brush. There is an easy-clean filter, two speeds and three temperature settings on the actual dryer and a convenient nine-foot-long power cord to make maneuvering around with the Nanoe that much easier.

Buy now

Harry Josh Pro Tools Dryer 2000: $250, Dermstore

From the man behind Gisele Bundchen and Gwyneth Paltrow’s, to name a few, breezy waves comes one of the most talked about dryers on the market. The dryer is hand-made in France and is also eco-friendly because its dual-filtration system reduced energy consumption by 60 per cent vis-a-vis its competitors, according to the release. Personally, we loved how quickly it dried our hair and how light and nice to the touch it felt. It’s dual-ion generator allows for both sleek and voluminous finishes which is nice given that you can chose to switch between them.

Buy now

Babyliss Pro Rapido: $189.95, Ulta

Behold! The Ferrari of hairdryers! Coincidentally, the 2000-watt brushless motor engine of the Rapido was designed by Ferrari. It does dry your hair very quickly and is very light to hold, weighing in at less than one lb or 400 grams. Like many of the other dryers on the list, it has ion generator technology for healthy-looking hair. According to the makers of this dryer, it features the “ideal combination of temperature and air performance” to maintain natural hydration because of its six heat and speed settings. It also has a removable noise-reducing filter, and comes with two snap on concentrators.

Buy now

Buttercup RBG Large: $195, DryBar

The group that has probably been responsible for your pre-party hair prep has created the perfect dryer. Another ionic power dryer that is one of the lightest tested and one of the quietest too, think listening to your favorite playlist (albeit very very loudly) while drying your hair. We did notice that our hair looked more shiny after drying with the Buttercup. It comes with two nozzles to customize your style and a salon-like nine-ft cord.

Buy now

The Verdict: Best hairdryers

As with any great products, it is always hard to choose just one. It was a close call but ultimately there can only be one best dryer - and it's the T3 Cura Luxe. This dryer won due to its design and user-friendliness. It also felt like the Cura Luxe gave our hair a greater volume boost than the other dryers. While all of the dryers were impressive, this was our favourite.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 235 ========

10 BEST COMPUTER MICE

No matter what your situation or your budget, there is a mouse for you. You don’t need a guide to buy some cheap five-buck plastic that makes your cursor move, but for those who are looking for something more specific or just something worth buying, this list is for you.

1. Razer Naga Trinity: $99.00, Amazon

This has been my daily driver for a long time now. A gaming mouse, but with a specific purpose. While most gaming mice concentrate on twitch reaction games and shooters, the Naga Trinity is meant for RPGs and MMOs. A bunch of hot keys on the side next to your thumb sounds uncomfortable, but it really isn’t. Using a gaming mouse for every day computer use can be annoying, but not the Naga - it feels just right. If you are big into MMO gaming and want something tailored towards that, or you just want a comfortable daily driver, the Naga Trinity is for you.

Buy Now

2. Razer DeathAdder Elite: $49.95, Amazon

The Razer DeathAdder Elite is yet another reliable product by Razer. If you just can’t spend the extra $20 to get your hands on the Mamba, the DeathAdder is a cheaper option that will not disappoint. Even amongst the best gaming mice the DeathAdder holds up amazingly well - you may even prefer this mouse over the others. It doesn’t have quite as many options, but it has enough. More importantly, the DeathAdder might be the most comfortable gaming mouse I have tried yet.

Buy Now

3. Apple Magic Mouse 2: $79, apple.com

A sleek buttonless white glassy design, the Apple Magic Mouse 2 is the most stylish option on the list. With options to swipe side-to-side, tap it with multiple fingers, press, and hold, this mouse may look limited, but all of its features are hidden by gestures and multi-touch. The buttonless design might be a little annoying at first, but once you learn the multi touch you will fall in love. A great and beautiful mouse for everyday use that will also make you feel as if you’re from the future.

Buy Now

4. Logitech MX Anywhere 2: $49.99, Amazon

Small, cheap, and portable, this mouse gets the job done. The MX Anywhere 2 doesn’t have all the bells and whistles, but it’s a great option for those on a lower-end budget, or those who don’t like using their laptop mouse while traveling. This mouse gets extra points because of how easy it is to use on flights. If you know nothing about mice and aren’t looking to do anything crazy, or you travel a lot, pick this up.

Buy Now

5. Kensington Expert Trackball Mouse: $89.99, kensington.com

From an overall perspective, this is the best trackball option on the market as it’s big, it’s comfortable, and it’s responsive. This mouse features four big customizable buttons surrounding a perfectly round trackball in the middle, which can also be customized. Personalizing sensitivity, response time, and almost any other option you’d like to personalize is possible. If it isn’t comfortable enough in its base form, it also comes with a detachable wrist rest. Like a dedicated employee, this mouse likes to be micro-managed, and it works exactly how you want it to work.

Buy Now

6. Logitech M570 Wireless Trackball: $24.14, Amazon

The cheaper trackball option, and somehow the one we prefer? That’s right! We said it. While technically not the best option it has the features it needs to be a real viable daily driver such as saving you a lot of money while keeping the advantages of a track ball. It also keeps the feel of a normal mouse. If you have bad wrists, are not in a situation to move a mouse around, or you just want to save some money while having a decent product, this is for you.

Buy Now

7. Logitech MX Master 2S: $99.99, Logitech.com

Everything about the MX Master 2S is designed for comfort. With a precise scrolling wheel with two different length options and side buttons that can move the screen horizontally, this mouse is designed to limit shifting and uncomfortable movement. Not only does it feel great in your hands, but the MX Master 2S is designed for the long haul. You will find the most comfortable position and you will stay in that position. The luxury car of mice, you will be hard pressed to find anything that feels this good.

Buy Now

8. Anker Vertical Ergonomic Optical Mouse: $19.99, anker.com

Vertical mice are becoming more and more common due to their health benefits. It feels a bit awkward holding a mouse the same way you would hold a toy gun, but over time you will feel the lack of wrist stress, which is great. There are two buttons on the side, but other than that, there isn’t much here. At this low of a price, with this level of comfort, this feels like a steal. If all you care about is comfort, don’t break the bank, as the Anker will be more than enough.

Buy Now

9. Razer Mamba (2015): $69.99, Amazon

The Razor Mamba is the greatest gaming mouse of all time. It will cost you a pretty penny, but it won’t be anywhere near as expensive as other mice of the same level of excellence. This mouse features sixteen thousand DPI, insane response time, and very sensitive touch. There is no need for batteries if you use the wireless version, which is awesome, but if you take your gaming seriously there is a wired version called the Tournament Edition. You could get something more expensive and newer, but it won’t be this good.

Buy Now

10. Logitech M330 Silent Plus: $16.35, Amazon

If you’re looking to buy a bunch of cheap mice for an office, or you just need a silent mouse, the Silent Plus is exactly what you’re looking for. Like the other budget options, it does not have a lot of crazy features, but it does exactly what it says it does. This mouse feels good, is excellent for the price, and a great option for limiting noise in a packed office.

Buy Now

The Verdict: Best mouse

There is a mouse for every want and need. However, too many options can be confusing. Let me make it simple, the Razer Naga Trinity will fill every need and will prove it’s worth. It doesn’t do any one specific thing the best, but it’s the safest bet with the most bang for the buck.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 236 ========

8 BEST LAPTOP BAGS

We live in an era of confirmed, near-universal, consumer tech, where our devices seldom leave our hands, sweatshirts come with built-in headphone pockets and our sneakers can track our heart rate.

So it isn’t just tech companies designing cases for your computer. Everyone from the most high-end designers to bargain, internet retailers are making bags outfitted for tech, and these our are picks for the best. At a range of price-points and designs, they all share a design built to carry your laptop in safety and fashion.

1. ProCase - Sleeve Case Bag: $17.99, Amazon

If you’re in need of a simple, inexpensive laptop case with cute details, ProCase’s Sleeve Bag is a good bet. It’s slim enough to fit inside a larger tote and with handle and second pocket for chords and keys, it’s also workable as a casual stand-alone bag. We promise you won’t find a better case under $20.

Buy now

2. LOIOL - Multi-Function Laptop Bag: $29.99, Etsy

This multi-function laptop bag from Etsy retailer LOIOL is a similar, slightly larger case that includes a handle as well as extra compartments to store your phone, external hard drive, and other needs, whether for work or travel.

Made of soft and sturdy environmentally-friendly felt, the bag can perfectly protect your stylish, portable device from dust, dirt, accidental scratches and bumps, absorbing shocks to keep your device safe. It is slim and lightweight to carry, and smooth to slide the case into your backpack, briefcase or other bag.

Buy now

3. Everlane - The Modern Snap Backpack: $68, Everlane

Everlane is a great retailer for reasonably-priced basics, from jeans to T-shirts to backpacks. The Modern Snap Backpack is very roomy and includes an interior, padded compartment that fits a 15” inch laptop. With a 19-liter capacity, there’s also plenty of room for your other needs, be they your lunch, school books, or an extra outfit for the gym.

Buy now

4. Herschel - H-445 Tote: $99.99, Herschel

It feels like backpacks define certain social subsets in the same way as a pair of shoes are known to make man. Herschel has the low-key hipster vibe very down - especially with this minimalist, camouflage tote.

Defined by an oversized and unstructured design with reinforced seat belt-webbing carry handles, it offers ample storage for laptops, water bottles, and the likes to meet all your carrying needs.

Buy now

5. Clare V - Messenger Navy Lamba: $415, Clare V

Clare V started with the perfect laptop case—specifically, a search for one. It was founder Clare Vivier's frustration at the absence of stylish computer sleeves while she was working as a television journalist in 2006 that inspired her to design a collection of playful leather bags and tech pouches.

Manufactured start-to-finish in LA with a natural waxed finish that wears well over time, this messenger is a classic, irresistible mix of Parisian influence and everyday functionality.

Buy now

6. Rebecca Minkoff - Bree Top Zip Satchel: $345, Rebecca Minkoff

Another high-end pick, this time from New York designer Rebecca Minkoff, whose statement handbags with a distinctly downtown vibe are perfect for toting work essentials in fashion.

The Bree Top Zip Satchel is large enough for a 13-inch laptop, with an interior pocket designed for that purpose, and includes compartments for your other essentials. It also features a detachable leather strap that can be replaced for a more relaxed vibe.

Buy now

7. Madewell - The Leather Laptop Case: $88, Madewell

Madewell has quickly become a go-to for straightforward, minimalist staples at a reasonable price. A subsidiary of J Crew since 2006, Madewell is thriving in a market where brick-and-mortar retailers are falling behind.

Their Leather Laptop Case is consistent with the brands ethos of well-made, durable basics. Made of semi vegetable-tanned leather with a softly-worn waxed finish that deepens into a distinctive patina, it wears well over time and will keep your laptop looking good.

Buy now

8. Lo And Sons - Seville Tote: $428, Lo and Sons

Lo and Sons bags are built to travel light without compromising functionality and style. The stylish, leather Seville tote is designed to carry 15" and 13" laptops and features a soft touch shell for easy attachment to your suitcase handle while breezing through airport security, and interchangeable leather styles to wear when you land.

The tote’s exterior shells can be swapped for others, and it comes fully assembled with an inner bag, leather shell, and a complimentary soft touch shell. Additional shells are available for purchase separately.

Buy now

The Verdict: Laptop Bags

If you’re in the market for a simple, inexpensive sleeve usable as a stand-alone piece or to throw in a larger bag, the Procase Sleeve is a great buy. For something a bit more business ready, Madewell’s Leather Laptop Case is chic, durable, and hits a reasonable price point.

For statement bags you can carry to work, we recommend the bags by Clare V and Rebecca Minkoff, which are both fashion forward and will earn you loads of compliments.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 237 ========

6 BEST FOOD PROCESSORS

Since “#cleaneating” has not stopped trending on social media, it’s easy to feel inspired to whip up a healthy meal at home. Often that means vegetables. And, that means, slicing, dicing and chopping. If you’re not a sous chef, however, it can either take quite a bit of time and maybe even a couple of cuts on your fingers.

To skip all that hustle and bustle, a food processor can provide a practical alternative that’s worth investing in. Prices vary, but functionality makes a big difference. A few things to consider are power, accessories, blades and versatility.

Whether you need onions chopped (say goodbye to crying a river), carrots sliced, or cheese shredded, it’ll be done with a push of a button.

These choptastic machines come in different qualities, bowls, blades and sizes, so we’ve made appetizers, entrees and desserts, swapped blade after blade and made a little bit of a mess in the kitchen, all for the sake of seeing how they performed. These six came out on top of the list.

1. Cuisinart Elemental 13-Cup Food Processor: $249.95, Williams Sonoma

The first thing to keep in mind with this one is its size and weight. The 13-cup bowl and the base of the machine aren’t something you can squeeze in to tight spaces, and with its 21lbs, it’s among the heavier food processors. Plus, there are several accessories included in the storage case such as an adjustable slicing disc, a reversible shredding disc (for medium or fine consistency), a dough blade, a dicing disc, a chopping blade and a cleaning tool.

As for its performance, it didn’t disappoint. The versatile functions came in handy when making veggie burgers, salsa or cookie dough and left no chunks behind.

There’s also a 4.5-cup bowl for preparing smaller portions. Also, the wide mouth can swallow whole fruits and vegetables, saving you time on pre-slicing.

A great feature we found was that the blades lock in tight, making it easier to pour the food out of the bowl without it falling out. Each part is dishwasher safe, but if you wash them by hand, be careful, because the blades are super sharp.

Buy now

2. Breville Sous Chef™ Plus: $399.95, Williams Sonoma

Personally, I was never a big fan of slicing vegetables — took too much time, couldn’t cut them even and more often than not I’d end up with a band-aid on my finger. This food processor has been in constant use. The zucchini and carrot curls are a great substitute for pasta and making a Ratatouille (a French-stewed vegetable dish) has never been quicker and easier. Since I’ve never used such a multi-functional food processor before, when I opened the box, I first reached for the manual. Each blade has its own name and purpose, so I’d recommend giving it a read before you begin chopping in full gear. And, that’s all you’ve got, full gear. There’s a pulse button, but besides that it only has one speed for everything. They could’ve added a low option as well.

Buy now

3. Vitamix A3500: $599.99, Williams Sonoma

If you’re looking for a hybrid food processor that can also work like a blender, this Vitamix passes the test. From making nut butters (think homemade cashew butter… yum) and blending shakes to chopping vegetables and blending soup, it’s very convenient to use. We loved its modern look and touchscreen high-tech design. The five built-in speeds each has a programmable timer, which can be set to automatically stop when blending is complete, so you don't have to monitor its progress. There’s also a pulse button that’s ideal for mincing and chopping. Something stuck on the side? No worries, it comes with a temper that makes it easier to press thicker mixtures towards the blades. The fifth program is a very convenient self-clean option. Just add water and dishwasher soap and the machine does the job for you.

Buy now

4. 9-Cup Food Processor with ExactSlice™ System: $159.99, KitchenAid

If we’re talking kitchen appliances, KitchenAid is among the most reliable. I’ve used several other products from this brand before, and they’ve all had high-quality performance. This food processor whizzes just as well. With the ExactSlice™ feature you can slice vegetables thin or thick to use for not only cooking but decoration too. It seemed to have a great versatility-to-price ratio. With four different blades it’s one of the worthiest machines for your buck.

Buy now

5. Hamilton Beach, 14-Cup Big Mouth Deluxe Food Processor: $79.99, Hamilton Beach

This sleek and powerful processor doesn’t come with a long list of blades, but beyond the two basics there’s one bonus you’ll love: a French fry disc. It’s a fitting choice when you want to make a large batch of fries for the whole family. You can even skip the pre-chopping as the large feeding mouth will fit a whole bell pepper or even a medium-sized potato. It’s a bit old-fashion with a twisting speed lever, but it’s nice to have three speeds to use besides pulsing.

Buy now

6. Black+Decker Easy Assembly 8-Cup Food Processor: $25.92, Walmart

Compared to the other multipurpose machines, this food processor keeps it simple, hence the lower price. Instead of having confusingly many blades, it comes with the basics: an S blade for processing and mixing and a dual-sided disc for slicing and shredding. It’s easy to assemble and clean, and the blades work exceptionally. However, if you’re looking to get more creative in the kitchen, this might not be enough. Also, the mouth of the feeder tube isn’t too large, so you’ll have to pre-slice fatter fruits or vegetables in order to fit them in.

Buy now

Verdict: best food processors

What you get for the price of the Hamilton Beach is absolutely worth it. It’s an ideal investment for an everyday kitchen use. The Vitamix will be your good looking best friend if you want to blend, chop and enjoy smoothies. But for more comprehensive chef work, it’s best to move on to some fancier choices that have more versatile options. Go for either the Cuisinart or the Breville. Although their performance level is very similar, and you’ll have all your food processing needs met with either product, it was the Cuisinart that made it to the top of our list.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 238 ========

7 BEST CAMCORDERS

A lot of folks these days are more than content to use their cellphone to record videos - while most DSLRs, compact system cameras and premium compacts also offer the ability to record in at least Full HD.

That said, there’s still plenty of dedicated camcorder type devices on the market. The advantage of using one of these is numerous, especially if you’re a big fan of creating movies. Almost all of the cameras in this list shoot 4K, which looks fantastic when viewing them back on a 4K television, but Full HD is often enough for most ordinary shooters.

Over a smartphone, you’ll get the benefit of a larger sensor, optical zoom, not to mention the fact that it’s much more comfortable to shoot with a camcorder, than a flat phone.

If you’re somebody who likes to create videos of adventures, such as mountain biking, kayaking, scuba diving and so on, you’ll probably want to think about the action camera subsection of the video camera market, which is in particularly robust shape at the moment - we’ve included the best one here.

1. Sony AX700: $1,898, Amazon - Best Buy

This high-end video camera is for somebody who creates a lot of videos and wants to take things pretty seriously.

It’s got a much larger-than-average one-inch stacked Exmor RS CMOS sensor, which in essence means that your videos come out crisp and clear. It’s coupled with a super-sharp 12x optical zoom Zeiss lens, which allows you to get lots of the scene in, while also getting you close enough to the action in most scenarios.

4K video recording is available here, plus 40x super-slow-motion video for those special effects. As well as a 3.5-inch Xtra Fine LCD screen, there’s also a 0.39-inch type OLED electronic viewfinder, ideal for composing your videos when bright sunlight might prevent screen usage.

This is probably the best-dedicated camcorder on the market, but you’ll pay the price for it.

Buy now

2. Panasonic HC-VX1: $797.99, Amazon

This mid-range video camera records in 4K resolution, as well as giving you Full HD options if you need to save space (or don’t have anything to view your 4K files on).

Along with a 1/2.5-inch sensor, you get a 24x optical zoom, taking you from a nice and wide 25mm equivalent for your sweeping vistas, all the way up to 600mm - which is ideal for sports and wildlife.

The VX1 features 5-axis hybrid optical image stabilization, resulting in smooth, stable footage - great for the adventurous types, or just those who like to record and walk at the same time.

As well as basic automatic functions, those with a little more expertise can delve into the various manual options available, too.

Buy now

3. GoPro Hero 6: $398.95, Amazon

GoPro’s flagship model, the Hero 6, is just about the best action camera on the market right now. It’s ideal for the adventurous types, recording 4K video at up to 60fps per second. Image stabilization is great, but it tops out at 30fps - something to consider, but not what we’d consider a deal-breaker.

Other great features include voice control (meaning you don’t need to actually touch the camera to get it to do things, such as start recording), stills shooting in raw format, a two-inch touchscreen and waterproofing without need for any additional housing down to 32 feet.

Buy now

4. Canon XC10: $1,399, Amazon

A good option for those who like to take a fair amount of stills, as well as video. It’s been designed with shooting video in mind, and has the ergonomics to match, but is still close in shape to a traditional DSLR.

With this camera you can record 4K video, but also take 12 megapixel still images that are much better than you’ll usually be able to grab from a standard camcorder. Full HD video recording at up to 100fps is also available.

The built-in lens is sadly not interchangeable as a DSLR one would be, but it gives you 10x optical zoom, which should be more than enough for most scenarios.

Buy now

5. Canon Vixia HF R800: $219, Amazon

Although the Vixia HF R800 only records in Full HD, at $219, it’s a great bargain buy for those who aren’t too serious about their videography. As well as Full HD, there are also slow ad fast motion recording options, which can be great fun on family trips.

It comes with a 32x optical zoom lens, while the inbuilt optical image stabilization does a fine job of keeping things nice and steady.

One great bonus of this camcorder is the ability to record in MP4 format, making uploading to Facebook and other social networking sites nice and easy.

Buy now

6. Panasonic HC-V180K: $227.99, Amazon

This inexpensive video camera is another great camcorder choice for those who just want to make family videos, without too much complication.

The V180K records in Full HD and features a 50x optical zoom lens with great image stabilization. Both work together to produce lovely sharp content that looks great and should be more than enough for those not too bothered by 4K.

A 2.7-inch touch-sensitive screen flips out from the side of the V810K , which is great for viewing and composing your videos.

Buy now

7. Sony AX-53: $848, Amazon

The AX-53 is aimed at fairly-advanced consumers who want something a little better than some of the cheaper models, but don’t have the extravagant budgets of the super premium devices.

Great news is that the Zeiss lens is a good performer, giving you 20x optical zoom to contend with and the optical image stabilization is great for keeping things nice and still while recording on the move. Auto-focusing is swift and smooth, while there’s a heap of manual options if you went to venture outside of using the AX-53 in fully automatic mode.

The camera records in 4K, as well as offering Full HD options. Rounding out the spec sheet is a 3.0-inch Xtra Fine LCD touch-sensitive screen which is great for viewing your footage.

Buy now

Verdict: best camcorders

These days, with most people opting to shoot video on their cellphones, choosing a dedicated video camera feels a little old-fashioned.

But for creating those precious home movies, or perhaps something a little more cinematic, nothing beats a proper camcorder. If you’re looking for something simple and easy to use, it’s easy to recommend the Canon Vixia HF R800, while those who would like something tough and rugged, the GoPro Hero 6 is the obvious choice.

Meanwhile, if you’re after the best of the best, the Sony AX700 is the one for you, but it’ll set you back a fair chunk of cash. For something which offers an all-round good choice, go for the Sony AX53.

Click here to view our guide to the Best Black Friday Deals

IndyBest product reviews are unbiased, independent advice you can trust. On some occasions, we earn revenue if you click the links and buy the products, but we never allow this to bias our coverage. The reviews are compiled through a mix of expert opinion and real-world testing.

====== 239 ========

JEWELLERY STORE STAFF USE SWORDS TO FIGHT OFF WOULD-BE THIEVES IN CCTV FOOTAGE

An attempted robbery of a jewellery store in Canada was thwarted when staff used swords to successfully fight off the thieves.

CCTV footage captured the moment employees at Ashok Jewellers in the Canadian city of Mississauga were targeted by robbers on Wednesday.

The shop staff were able to fight off the suspects who then fled in a dark coloured Dodge Durango vehicle.

Police are still searching for the identities of the four suspects who attempted to gain entry to the store by breaking a storefront window.

Though there were no reported injuries and no property was stolen, Constable Danny Marttini told Global News that the police do not condone the use of swords by the staff.

Officials are appealing for witnesses, dash-cam or surveillance video or any information on this incident.

Anyone with information should contact investigators from the Centeral Robbery Bureau at (905) 453-2121, ext. 3410. Information may also be left anonymously by calling Peel Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (8477) or by visiting peelcrimestoppers.ca

====== 240 ========

MAN MAKES HEARTBREAKING CHRISTMAS ADVERT FOR JUST £50 AND VIEWERS SAY IT'S 'BETTER THAN JOHN LEWIS CAMPAIGN'

A tear-jerking Christmas film that was made for just £50 has gone viral online, with many saying that its creator should be hired by John Lewis to direct their next festive campaign.

Love is a Gift, a short film that depicts a man patiently waiting for Christmas to arrive so that he can open a special gift from a loved one, was originally made by filmmaker Phil Beastall in 2014.

Following the release of John Lewis' big-budget 2018 Christmas advert The Boy and the Piano, starring Sir Elton John, Beastall decided to share his video online again, and has received a tremendous response from thousands of viewers online.

In the film, the man can be seen preparing for the festive period by decorating his Christmas tree and ticking off the days on his calendar in the lead up to December 25.

When Christmas finally arrives, the man opens up a cassette box at his kitchen table and takes out one of the tapes inside, which he then listens to using a Sony Walkman.

In a heartbreaking moment, the viewers then learn that the tape was left to him by his late mother, who recorded several tapes for him to listen to every year on Christmas following her death.

"Merry Christmas poppet," his mother says on the tape. "Another year has passed. I wanted to start this one by saying something I haven't said yet, which is thank you. Thank you for taking the time to remember me."

As a tear falls down the man's face, it's then revealed that the tape is the last that his mother recorded for her son.

The advert ends with the tagline: "Love is a gift that lasts forever. Merry Christmas."

The touching nature of the film has resonated with scores of people online, something that Beastall believes is an essential aspect of advertising.

"People seem to like my film because it's the story that shines through," says the filmmaker, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.

"You don't always need a huge budget, just an impactful narrative that gets the message across.

"I think there's a bit of a revolution going on in the advertising industry.

"People no longer want to be overtly sold something which makes our job as video producers a lot harder because we have to sell indirectly."

Numerous people who've come across the film online have compared it to John Lewis' grand production, with many saying that the retailer should call on Beastall to make their next Christmas advert.

"A lot of people are struggling financially so to hear that millions is being spent on these campaigns isn't sitting well with people," he says with regards to the John Lewis advert.

"People have been saying that it's an opportunity to celebrate Elton John and promote his new film."

Nonetheless, Beastall states that he enjoyed watching the John Lewis advert, and that if the company were to ask him to make their next festive campaign, he would "obviously snap it up in an instant."

More than 18,000 comments have been left underneath Beastall's short film online.

"In tears. I have no words except John Lewis, tell your advertising team they [are] sacked," wrote Melanie Thomas. "Stop plugging Elton John's song and get this man to do your adverts."

"Best advert ever, maybe John Lewis should pay him a million," Lisa Darling remarked.

"A lot of people are saying how it has touched them and made them feel that they can cope a little bit more this Christmas, which is amazing," Beastall says.

He continues, saying that his aim with the film was to make viewers "really reflect on what they have around them and take a moment to appreciate how lucky we are."

====== 241 ========

‘TACTICAL CONTACT’: POLICE SHOWN RAMMING CARS INTO MOPED CRIMINALS IN VIDEO FOOTAGE OF NEW STRATEGY

Police have released dramatic footage showing officers ramming cars into criminals riding mopeds and sending them tumbling into the road.

Scotland Yard said the newly adopted “tactical contact” strategy is in widespread use in London after a rise in robberies, phone snatches and acid attacks using scooters.

Moped-enabled crime has plummeted by 36 per cent in the capital year-on-year since the methods were rolled out.

Officers feared being jailed or sacked if moped riders were injured during high-speed chases in the past, while criminals have taken their helmets off in the belief it will prevent a pursuit.

But the government has backed new legal protections for officers, and the Metropolitan Police said it targets moped criminals “even when they ride dangerously, discard their helmets and disguise themselves in the belief that this will prevent pursuit and their capture”.

A spokesperson for the Met said “Scorpion” drivers are specially trained to use tactics that “prevent injury occurring to offenders and other people”.

One video shows a police car mounting a pavement as a moped speeds in the other direction and smashes into the bonnet, sending the rider into the road.

Other clips show scooters being rammed from behind or forced off the road.

Targeted riders can be seen getting up or even running from the collisions, and police say any incidents that cause injury are referred to the Independent Office for Police Conduct.

Officers hope the footage will show the “hardline approach” they are prepared to take against criminals using motorbikes, and make potential offenders think twice.

The past two years have seen a dramatic increase in the use of scooters for a range of crimes, including smash-and-grab raids, armed robbery and phone snatches seeing individual criminals swipe up to 30 phones an hour in London.

People are frequently targeted as they come out of Tube stations, while thieves also snatch handbags, high-value watches and other items.

Among the victims have been comedian Michael McIntyre, who had his watch stolen by hammer-wielding moped robbers who smashed his car windows as he waited to pick up his children from school earlier this year.

Sajid Javid said he was the victim of a moped mugging before becoming home secretary.

Many of the attacks in London have targeted delivery drivers, with the aim of stealing their mopeds, including a spate of acid attacks.

Jabed Hussain, the first of five victims attacked in just 90 minutes by moped riders last year, told The Independent that many stolen scooters or number plates were later used to commit crimes or rack up speeding tickets traced back to the original victims, adding: “You’re the victim but they think you’re a criminal.”

Victims of moped attacks have called on authorities to prevent criminals using the vehicles with “impunity”, but identifying suspects has been made difficult by the wearing of helmets, masks and gloves.

The Metropolitan Police is using “DNA spray” to mark them with invisible dye that can place riders or bikes at the scene of a crime, and they have equipment to puncture tyres.

From January to October 2017, there were 19,455 moped-enabled offences across London, and this figure was reduced by 36 per cent to 12,419 offences in the same period this year.

Met Police Commander Amanda Pearson said Scotland Yard was “not complacent”.

“Operation Venice is multifaceted, and we can call on all manner of tactics from an experienced investigation team to police helicopters to tackle and arrest offenders,” she added.

“There is a perception that if you remove your helmet or fail to stop for police when requested to do so we will not take any further course of action. This is untrue.

”The public quite rightly expects us to intervene to keep London safe. Our highly trained police drivers weigh up the risks and decide upon the most appropriate tactics in those circumstances.

“Offenders on mopeds and motorcycles who attempt to evade the police are making a choice that puts themselves and others at risk.

“So our message is clear: we can, we will and we do target those involved in moped and motorcycle crime at every opportunity.”

Update: A previous version of this story stated that moped-enabled offences had reduced by 44 per cent year on year. The figure was changed to 36 per cent following a correction to figures released by the Metropolitan Police

====== 242 ========

FLORIDA POLICE OFFICER SHOOTS MAN THROUGH WINDSCREEN DURING CHASE

A police officer returned fire and shot an armed suspect through the windscreen of his car injuring him the leg and chest.

Wanted in connection with an earlier shooting, Dillon Parker failed to stop when a deputy tried to pull him over in Florida's Volusia County.

The 33-year-old then veered his car towards the patrol vehicle forcing it off the road.

He then began shooting at the officers which prompted another deputy to return fire, striking him the chest and leg.

The incident was caught on one the officer's body cams. As he lies on the floor, Parker's wounds were noticeable in the footage.

After police disarmed him, he was airlifted to a medical centre due to his critical condition, but police expected him to survive.

