====== 1 ========

BREAKING NEWS STORIES WITHIN THE UK

====== 2 ========

LATEST WORLD NEWS AND EVENTS

====== 3 ========

EUROPE

Germany abolishes death penalty in public vote

'There was a fear if a terrible crime was committed... then the vote could do the wrong way," local politician says

====== 4 ========

LATEST BUSINESS INFORMATION, NEWS AND EVENTS

====== 5 ========

MIDTERMS 2018

====== 6 ========

AMERICAS

====== 7 ========

PEOPLE

====== 8 ========

LATEST SCIENCE NEWS AND INFORMATION

====== 9 ========

NEWS

====== 10 ========

VIDEO EXPLAINERS

====== 11 ========

NEWS VIDEOS

Watch May's statement to MPs in full after resignations over Brexit

Theresa May was forced to defend her Brexit deal as she addressed parliament after key cabinet ministers Dominic Raab and Esther McVey resigned in protest.

====== 12 ========

PEOPLE AND CULTURE VIDEOS

Remembering Stephen Colbert's 2006 Correspondents' Dinner speech

‘I believe the government that governs best is the government that governs least, and by these standards we have set up a fabulous government in Iraq’

====== 13 ========

SPORT VIDEOS

Ronaldo heads himself into history and Portugal to verge of last-16

Portugal 1-0 Morocco: The Real Madrid star became the topscoring European in internationals as he headed the Selecao to the brink of qualification

====== 14 ========

BREXIT IS THE EQUIVALENT OF A MAJOR DEFEAT IN WAR

When a majority of the British people voted to leave the EU in 2016, I was struck by the similarity between the Brexiteers’ plans for their perilous voyage and those of Edward Lear’s characters in The Jumblies as they set to sea in their sieve. The analogy became more apt as the proponents of Brexit showed that they did not know nor care very much about the nature of the world into which they were proposing to sail other than to hope that everything would be alright on the night.

The Jumblies, like the Brexiteers, were swift to dismiss critical comment predicting a disastrous end to their venture, saying: “Our sieve ain’t big / But we don’t care a button, we don’t care a fig! / In a sieve we’ll go to sea!”

The water did indeed come in, but the Jumblies were not downhearted “because they wrapped their feet / in pinky paper all folded neat”. For extra safety, they pass the night in a crockery jar where they sang of their wisdom as they set their pea-green sail for lands where, among other things, they secured an owl, a pig and some green-Jack-daws, and “a lovely monkey with lollipop paws”.

The Brexiteers’ alternative to the EU is just as imaginary as that described by Lear as a habitation for the Jumblies. The reason why the Leavers have failed to negotiate the sort of settlement they said they wanted from the EU is simple: what they said in 2016 was based on the proposition that the EU got more out Britain than Britain got out of the EU. Had this been true, the British departure would be easy enough, because Britain could genuinely have threatened to walk away. But because Britain needs the EU more than vice versa, the outcome of the negotiations were always going to be heavily skewed in favour of Brussels.

Yet this simple proposition evidently eluded Dominic Raab, David Davis, Boris Johnson and the other Leavers who departed from the cabinet claiming that Britain was being blackmailed and bullied into submission. Successful negotiations always reflect the balance of power between the negotiating parties and it is puerile to believe that the settlement, which the EU leaders will or will not agree to in the next few days, was determined by a failure of will by Theresa May or subtle treachery by Remain-sympathising civil servants.

It is easy and right to deride the Leavers for their wishful thinking and inability to calculate the true balance of power between Britain and its neighbours. This is the same ruinous mistake made by so many populist-nationalist leaders down the decades. The great flaw of nationalists everywhere is an assumption that their nation has greater political, economic and military potential – and their rivals less – than is really the case.

Exaggerated ideas of national superiority have fuelled the most self-destructive policy mistakes of modern European history. They led to France declaring war on Prussia in 1870 and Germany choosing to fight wars on two fronts in both World Wars. American and British leaders blithely intervened in Afghanistan and Iraq this century in total ignorance of the real odds against their success.

Such military examples are apposite because Britain’s withdrawal from the EU is the equivalent of a major defeat in war. Suppose, hypothetically, that Britain fought and lost a military conflict with a rival European power, then the departure of Britain from the EU might well be demanded by the victor as a way of ensuring that Britain was permanently weakened.

What foreign enemies failed to accomplish against the British state for centuries may soon be inflicted by the modern day Jumblies. Negotiations now completed are at best an attempt to mitigate the extent of the British loss and all scenarios point to a country less well-off and influential than if it had stayed in the EU.

The best argument for Brexit has little to do with political power or economic success. The demand for national self-determination has been behind the most progressive developments in the world over the last century since the break-up of the German, Austro-Habsburg and Ottoman empires after 1918, and the British and French empires after 1945.

Newly emergent nation states invariably blame former imperial masters for their economic, political and social troubles. Usually there is a lot in this claim, though not as much as the claimants pretend. In this context, there is nothing surprising in the fact the British complaints against Brussels echo those made by the Irish and the Indians against London when they fought, with rather more reason, for their independence.

This comparison will not appeal to hardcore Leavers because of their nostalgia for a state of the world at home and abroad that, if it existed at all, was briefly present in the 1950s. British society of that era may have some aspects that were superior to the present, as well as many that were worse, but in either case they lie in the past and cannot be recreated.

One of the many weird characteristics of the Leave leaders is their frequent references to a mythical version of British history, featuring “vassalage” and humiliating treaties signed by King John at the beginning of the 13th century. One Brexiteer even attacked the proposed EU agreement as the most humiliating since Charles II agreed the Treaty of Dover with Louis XIV in return for a heavy subsidy in 1670.

But these historical nuggets are really only there for adornment. For all the talk about “Britain standing alone”, Britain invariably made every effort to do no such thing. British success against Napoleon, the Kaiser and Hitler were based on the Royal Navy preventing defeat, while Britain built up overwhelmingly powerful alliances against the enemy of the day. The last time the country was as bereft of continental allies as it is today was during the American War of Independence at the end of 18th century.

Contemporary English populist nationalism has much in common with similar movements in Europe and the US: hostility to immigrants and minority communities combined with a sense of lost identity and control, which seems to be the inevitable consequence of globalisation.

For globalisation in this century is turning out to be as destructive to the political and social status quo as the Industrial Revolution was in the 19th century. Metropolitan areas, primarily urban, that are plugged into the global economy do well, while everybody else falls behind or does badly. The same pattern is repeated everywhere from Arkansas to the Isle of Thanet and from Saxony and the rural hinterland of Damascus.

In one respect, the Brexiteers are more revolutionary – and perhaps more dangerous – than Donald Trump. Despite his foaming rhetoric, Trump has done little for his acolytes and has instead implemented a traditional, if toxic, Republican programme of reducing taxes on the rich, deregulating Wall Street and business, and targeting minorities and the poor. Only in Britain has the populist-nationalist surge, almost by accident, come close to producing revolutionary change by propelling the British state in directions so new and uncharted that even the Jumblies might have been deterred from going there.

====== 15 ========

'WE DON’T NEED TO ASK WHY YOUNG WOMEN ARE SUFFERING MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS – IT’S A DIRECT RESULT OF THE PATRIARCHY'

Young women are suffering a mental health crisis.

Nearly one in four has a mental illness, say the latest figures from NHS Digital. Analysing the data of 9,000 young people, the results showed that girls between the age of 17 and 19 were twice as likely as men to encounter depression and anxiety. An eye-opening comparison.

The review also found that children aged 11 to 19 who had mental health problems were more likely to be social media users. A third of those users spent over four hours a day on these platforms. It’s hardly surprising. Comparison, after all, is the thief of joy. Being bombarded daily with images of gym-sculpted bodies will do this to someone – that’s what advertising has always preyed on.

Social media is not the only culprit here.

This week also heralded the news that life expectancy for women in the poorest areas of England is falling due to insufficient care for preventable and treatable diseases. The gulf between wealthy and poor women is widening on an annual basis.

To compound this, women’s health issues are often overlooked.

The British Heart Foundation has just revealed that more than 8,200 women in England and Wales who died from heart attacks over the course of a decade could have survived if they’d had the same level of care as men. A BBC documentary this week revealed the catastrophic and under-researched mental health impact of the contraceptive pill. For the very same reasons, production of a male equivalent was halted.

With all this to contend with, is it any wonder young women are feeling the strain?

For many years, scientists couldn’t pinpoint why African Americans had such notably higher blood pressure than Caucasians – with black people having among the highest blood pressure in the world. Studies soon began to investigate this in conjunction with racial discrimination.

In 2006, researchers found a correlation between racism and gender-related vigilance (anticipatory stress), and cardiovascular risk – the latter increasing where the former was most present. In 2013, researchers at John Hopkins University released findings of their analysis of 266 patients in urban health clinics in Baltimore between 2003 and 2005. They found that just thinking about race resulted in increased blood pressure.

Researchers at Northwestern University followed more than 2,000 African Americans over the course of 25 years from 1985 living in racially divided neighbourhoods in Chicago, Minneapolis, Birmingham (Alabama) and Oakland. Those who had moved into more racially integrated neighbourhoods during this time had significantly lower blood pressure than those who remained in divided ones. They concluded that the raised markers in those who stayed could translate directly to thousands of heart attacks and strokes.

There’s no doubt about it, prejudice makes you ill.

We also know that abuse – the suffering or even the witnessing of – can be seen in the makeup of people’s very DNA. This year, Harvard published the results of a study that looked at men who had been abused as children. They found chemical markers in them that were non-existent in those who hadn’t suffered abuse. This physical effect of this trauma was then found in offspring.

It thus seems logical that young women today having impossible beauty ideals thrusted at them from their palms, being at constant threat of misogyny and sexual violence, facing racial discrimination and having their appearances dissected when they speak out against sexual assault… might also then develop severe mental health issues?

Instead of after-the-fact mental health treatment and kid gloves, we need to see systemic legal and social change that targets the heart of these problems: classing malicious sexist acts against women as hate crimes, injecting more funding into women’s medical care, teaching consent and gender issues to children from a young age, investigating how we can target online bullying and the impact of social media upon self-esteem.

Patriarchy is a plague upon women. Its toxicity is destroying their mental and physical health, so why are we still twiddling our thumbs wondering what could possibly be the cause of the suffering? The answer is writ large. These links are too close for us to ignore.

====== 16 ========

JOHN CHAU’S SAD DEATH SHOULD BE A WAKE-UP CALL TO ALL MISSIONARIES TARGETING UNCONTACTED TRIBES

As John Chau stepped ashore on North Sentinel Island, he was met by angry tribesmen who felled him with poison arrows. The next day, they buried his body further down the beach. The foolhardy 27-year-old American, a self-styled adventurer and evangelical missionary, had already tried to contact the inhabitants of this remote atoll in the Andaman Islands a few days earlier, paying local fisherman to break the law and ferry him there. He left “gifts” of a pair of scissors, safety pins and a plastic football.

Crass or what? This was an act of cultural imperialism and insane arrogance, assuming that people whose descendants can be traced back 70,000 years would enjoy life more kicking a manmade ball and pinning clothes on their naked bodies. I want to weep at the outcome of this disastrous act of folly – and not just because of the death of Chau, which is regrettable, even while being avoidable and predictable. I despair because here’s another example of two of the worse kinds of environmental pollution: aggressive pushing of faith to another culture and the introduction of “gifts” which undermine their way of life.

People from our developed world can’t stand the idea that some tribes still live in total solitude, with their own mysterious customs and language, who refuse to integrate with the rest of us. High-end travel companies offer extreme adventure tourism to remote parts of the Amazon and Africa, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea: places where they enable rich adventurers to get up close with people who still live close to nature, untainted by the distractions and detritus of our western world. It’s called “experiential tourism”. Something rich kids can tick off a bucket list.

John Chau attended a Christian high school in Vancouver and the evangelical Oral Roberts University in Oklahoma. He described himself as a missionary and frequently posted about his escapades on social media. He’d already written that the Andaman and Nicobar Islands were his “must-do adventure”, knowing that the Indian government had placed the islands out of bounds, and that only a few academics have ever been allowed permits. Tourism is banned, as contact with the tribe would expose them to disease – even a bout of the flu could kill people whose immune systems are not accustomed to the same infections people from other parts of the world catch routinely.

The four main groups of indigenous people in the surrounding area are all under threat from development, such as new roads encroaching into the forests, and the risks of eating Indian food or having sex with outsiders. In 2009, one tribe, the Onge, suffered a catastrophe when men drank from canisters washed up on the beach, thinking they contained alcohol. Instead, the toxic chemicals killed eight people, and 13 others were seriously ill. Local Indian government officials negotiated with the tribal leaders to persuade them to allow the women who had lost husbands to remarry as the tribe had shrunk to less than 100 members.

In 2011, a British-based academic managed to compile a dictionary of the ancient languages spoken by four of the tribes in the Andaman Islands, and since then two of them have become extinct. Three of the four groups surveyed have suffered illnesses and deaths after coming into contact with outsiders. Only the Sentinelese – the ones John Chau was so determined to visit – remain untainted.

A few years ago I spent a couple of weeks in Papua New Guinea, and was taken by boat to the remote outer islands. The people I met had no currency, but bartered using shells. They had all the food they needed growing in abundance and the fish were plentiful.

Sadly, missionaries might have brought medicine and education to parts of PNG, but western culture has only brought violence and unrest to places like the capital, Port Moresby.

The assumption that bringing Christ’s word via the Bible to remote tribes will enrich the lives of isolated tribes is hard to stomach, even though evangelicals claim that only 14 per cent of their work is in places where Christianity is not the dominant faith. John Chau claimed he wanted to introduce Christ to the Sentinelese – but why would their own culture not include a deity, a belief in the afterlife or some sense of fulfilling spirituality? Why would his evangelical creed be superior or necessary?

The Sentinelese are one of the last pre-Neolithic tribes left on the planet, with a lifestyle and culture that has remained unchanged for longer than any in Europe or America. They have consistently repelled invaders. A group of anthropologists attempted to get up close and personal in 1970, and were treated to a live sex show. Four years later, another group were met with poison arrows.

John Chau wrote to his parents before his visit: “I think it’s worth it to declare Jesus to these people. Please do not get angry at them or at God if I get killed”. Now, his friends are describing Chau as a “martyr” – hardly. His behaviour was the worst advertisement for Christianity you could imagine, but sadly it’s not even that unusual.

A few years ago, one missionary in Irian Jaya encountered a similar reception from locals. He went back to the US and raised money for a helicopter to embark on “aerial evangelisation”, shouting the gospel from a loudspeaker. He was met with a barrage of poisoned arrows and abandoned his mission.

One evangelical missionary has written: “It’s true we destroy certain things in cultures just as doctors must destroy certain things in a human body if a patient is to survive”. Why can’t these zealots accept that some non-believers do not need the words of Jesus or plastic footballs?

====== 17 ========

US AGENTS FIRE TEAR GAS AT MIGRANTS SEEKING TO BREACH US-MEXICO BORDER

US agents have fired tear gas at Central American migrants, after some tried to breach the busiest border separating Mexico and the United States.

Officers from US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) fired or threw the gas after a handful of migrants sought to open a small hole in concertina wire at a gap on the Mexican side of a levee. Images showed the migrants – men, women and children – running from the smoke. For a time, they also suspended all crossings at the world's busiest land border.

Honduran migrant Ana Zuniga, 23, told the Associated Press it was at that point she saw the US agents fire the tear gas, which enveloped some of the migrants. “We ran, but when you run the gas asphyxiates you more,” she told the AP, while cradling her three-year-old daughter Valery in her arms.

Earlier, the CBC said all crossings at the busiest port of entry on the US-Mexico border have been suspended, after hundreds of Central American migrants pushed past a blockade of Mexican police. Later, it reopened the facility for pedestrian crossings.

Television footage showed hundreds of migrants storming towards the US border after pushing their way past the officers. There were no reports of anyone being hurt, or of any of the migrants committing violence.

The agency said both vehicle and foot crossings had been suspended at the San Ysidro port of entry hundreds of migrants gathered at the busy crossing point, seeking to apply for asylum in the US.

“Southbound lanes into Mexico at the San Ysidro port of entry are currently closed. Updates will be provided,” the CBC’s San Diego office said on Twitter at around noon local time. It subsequently tweeted to say northbound vehicles, along with all foot crossings, had also been halted.

The move came after Donald Trump suggested over the weekend that Mexico had agreed a deal to allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts. The Washington Post had quoted Mexico’s incoming interior minister Olga Sanchez to say president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution”.

Hours later, the newspaper said she had denied any deal had been done, saying: “There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government.”

Earlier on Sunday, hundreds of Central American migrants, most of the them countries such as Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala raced towards the US border, making their way around or through a blockade of Mexican police officers.

The Associated Press said around 5,000 migrants have been camped in and around a sports complex in Tijuana after making their way through Mexico in recent weeks in a series of caravans. Many hope to apply for asylum in the US, but agents at the San Ysidro entry point are processing fewer than 100 asylum petitions a day.

Some of the migrants who went forward Sunday called on each other to remain peaceful. They appeared to easily pass through the Mexican police blockade without using violence, the AP said.

A second line of Mexican police carrying plastic riot shields stood guard outside a Mexican customs and immigration plaza, where the migrants were headed.

That line of police installed tall steel panels behind them outside the Chaparral crossing on the Mexican side of the border, which completely blocked incoming traffic lanes to Mexico.

In recent weeks, Mr Trump has seized on the issue of the migrant as he sought to rally Republicans ahead of the midterms, terming their massing an “invasion” and dispatching thousands of troops to the border. They spent their days laying down rolls of razor wire in a visual display of actions, Democrats and migrants rights activists have dismissed as a political stunt.

Irineo Mujica, who has accompanied the migrants for weeks as part of the aid group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said the aim of Sunday’s march towards the US border was to make the migrants’ plight more visible to the governments of Mexico and the US “We can’t have all these people here,” said Mr Mujica.

Tijuana Mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum on Friday declared a humanitarian crisis in his border city of 1.6m, which he he said was struggling to accommodate the crush of migrants.

====== 18 ========

MEXICO DENIES DOING DEAL WITH TRUMP OVER HOUSING ASYLUM SEEKERS AS 'THIRD SAFE COUNTRY'

Mexico‘s incoming government has denied doing a deal with Donald Trump that would allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts, one of several options the Trump administration has been pursuing in negotiations for months.

The deal was seen as a way to dissuade thousands of Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. In effect, Mexican border towns are already acting as waiting rooms for migrants hoping to start new lives in the US due to bottlenecks at the border.

“There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government,” future Interior Minister Olga Sanchez said in a statement.

Hours earlier, The Washington Post had quoted her as saying that the incoming administration of Andrés Manuel López Obrador had agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution” while the US considered their applications for asylum. Mr Lopez Obrador will take office on 1 December.

The statement said the future government’s principal concern related to the migrants is their well-being while in Mexico.

The Washington Post reported on Saturday that the Trump administration had won support from the Mexican president-elect’s team for a plan dubbed “Remain in Mexico”.

The newspaper also quoted Sanchez as saying: “For now, we have agreed to this policy of Remain in Mexico.”

Sanchez did not explain in the statement why The Washington Post had quoted her as saying there had been agreement.

White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said, “President Trump has developed a strong relationship with the incoming (Lopez) Obrador Administration, and we look forward to working with them on a wide range of issues.”

Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin, described the Remain in Mexico plan as a strategy to take away the ability of migrants to live and work in the US while cases are processed. “The hope is that asylum seekers will not want to live in [Mexico] for months/years and won’t come,” Ms Leutert said via Twitter.

US officials have said for months that they were working with Mexico to find solutions for what they have called a border crisis. One variation, called “Safe Third,” would have denied asylum claims on the grounds that asylum seekers had found haven in Mexico. President Enrique Peña Nieto offered thousands of Central Americans asylum on 26 October if they agreed to remain in southern Mexico. Close to 3,000 migrants took Mexico up on the offer.

Ms Sanchez said Saturday that the next government does not plan for Mexico to become a “third safe country”.

Some 5,000 Central American migrants have arrived in recent days to Tijuana, just south of California, after making their way through Mexico via caravan. The town has declared a humanitarian crisis and asked the UN to intervene while the group lives temporarily inside a sports complex, facing long waits for food and toilets.

Tijuana mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum on Friday said his border city of 1.6 million was struggling to accommodate the influx. Hundreds of Tijuana residents have protested the migrants’ arrival, complaining that recent caravans forced their way into Mexico from Guatemala.

Mr Trump threatened Thursday to shut down the border crossing entirely if his administration determines that Mexico has lost “control” of the situation in Tijuana.

Julieta Vences, a congresswoman from Mr Lopez Obrador’s Morena party who is also president of Mexico’s congressional migrant affairs commission, said that incoming foreign minister Marcelo Ebrard has been discussing with US officials how to handle a deluge of asylum claims at the border.

“They’re going to have to open the borders (for the migrants) to put in the request,” Ms Vences said. “They will also give us dates, on what terms they will receive the (asylum) requests and in the case that they are not beneficiaries of this status, they will have to return here,” Ms Vences said.

She said Mexico needs to examine how to accommodate the migrants without angering locals.

“When they come back, we need to see how ... we can integrate them into an economic activity so that they can develop and not generate conflict with our own communities.”

Local churches and charities have been feeding the migrants, with assistance from state and federal agencies. They have also distributed thousands of blankets, thin mattresses and personal hygiene kits.

Meanwhile, the government of the state of Baja California has identified 7,000 jobs for which migrants could possibly earn income while they await hearings in the US.

Mr Trump took to Twitter again on Saturday to reiterate that he plans to do away with the US catch-and-release system, which allows asylum seekers to work and study sometimes for years while their cases are pending.

“Migrants at the Southern Border will not be allowed into the United States until their claims are individually approved in court,” he wrote. “We only will allow those who come into our Country legally. Other than that our very strong policy is Catch and Detain. No ‘Releasing’ into the US.”

Additional reporting by AP

====== 19 ========

MEXICO TO IMMEDIATELY DEPORT 500 MIGRANTS WHO 'VIOLENTLY AND ILLEGALLY' TRIED TO CROSS US BORDER

Mexico has said it will immediately deport up to 500 migrants from Central America who “violently and illegally” sought to cross the US border – pushing past Mexican people and causing US agents to fire tear gas to disperse them.

The US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agency suspended all crossings at the San Diego-Tijuana entry point, after hundreds of migrants stormed their way through a blockade of Mexican police and a small number sought to open a space in a roll of razor wire.

With the Mexican police overwhelmed, US agents dispersed the migrants by firing or throwing tear gas. Images taken at the location showed clouds of tear gas hanging in the air, and people moving away from the border.

The crossing remained closed for several hours.

“As the demonstrations on the Mexican side reached the border area, some members of the demonstration split off to head towards multiple locations along the border,” the CBP said in a statement.

“Some attempted to enter the US both directly east and west of the border crossing. These attempts to illegally enter the US, and the response to them continue.”

Officials later said they were reopening foot crossings at the entry point, said to be the busiest such place in the world and where 90,000 enter the US every day, most of them day labourers.

Meanwhile, Mexico’s interior ministry said it had retaken control of its side of the border crossing and would, in conjunction with the national institute of migration, the government agency responsible for controlling who is permitted to enter the country, deport up to 500 people “who participated in these violent events”. It said rather than helping the migrants’ objectives, the “provocative acts” had violated “the legal migration framework”.

The Associated Press said around 5,000 migrants have been camped in and around a sports complex in Tijuana after making their way through Mexico in recent weeks in a series of caravans. Many hope to apply for asylum in the US, but agents at the San Ysidro entry point are processing fewer than 100 asylum petitions a day.

The vast majority of the migrants are from countries such as El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, which suffer from the debilitating levels of violence perpetrated by gangs linked to the US drugs trade, and grinding poverty.

Ahead of the midterm elections, Mr Trump seized on the migrants as a means of rallying his supporters and warned of “an invasion”.

Over the weekend, Mr Trump suggested Mexico had agreed a deal to allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts. The Washington Post had quoted Mexico’s incoming interior minister Olga Sanchez to say president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution”.

Hours later, the newspaper said she had denied any deal had been done, saying: “There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government.

====== 20 ========

CRIMEA: THREE UKRAINE NAVY BOATS CAPTURED BY RUSSIAN FORCES FOLLOWING FIREFIGHT

Russia has seized three Ukrainian navy vessels following a shoot-out in the Black Sea near the Crimean peninsula, prompting the UN Security Council to call an emergency meeting.

The Russian coastguard opened fire on two artillery boats and a tug belonging to Ukraine which it claimed had made an unauthorised passage through Russia’s waters.

Two of the craft, the ​Berdyansk and the Nikopol, were damaged and six crew members injured.

The confrontation took place near the hotly contested Kerch Strait, which separates the peninsula from the Russian mainland.

Russia’s FSB security service confirmed its border patrol boats had seized the Ukrainian naval vessels in the Black Sea and used weapons to force them to stop, Russian news agencies reported.

The FSB said it had been forced to act because the ships had illegally entered its territorial waters, attempted illegal actions, and ignored warnings to stop while manoeuvring dangerously.

“Weapons were used with the aim of forcibly stopping the Ukrainian warships,” the FSB said in a statement circulated to Russian state media.

“As a result, all three Ukrainian naval vessels were seized in the Russian Federation’s territorial waters in the Black Sea.”

Ukrainian authorities said they had given advance notice to the Russians that the vessels would be moving through the strait.

The incident prompted Petro Poroshenko, the Ukrainian president, to push parliament to declare martial law after convening a meeting of his war cabinet.

He said the parliament could decide on Monday whether to approve martial law, which would restrict civil liberties and give state institutions greater power.

The Independent has contacted the FSB and Russia’s defence ministry for comment.

The Kerch Strait is the only passage into the Sea of Azov. The strait is spanned by the recently completed Kerch Bridge, connecting Crimea to Russia. Transit under the bridge has been blocked by a tanker ship, and dozens of cargo ships awaiting passage are stuck.

A 2003 treaty designates the Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov as shared territorial waters but Russia has been asserting greater control over the passage since 2015 – the year after it illegally annexed Crimea. Moscow also backed a pro-Russia insurgency in eastern Ukraine.

Russia has not given any indication of how long it will block the strait, but a long-term closure to would amount to an economic blockade of Ukrainian cities on the Azov coast. Russia’s Black Sea Fleet greatly outmatches the Ukrainian navy.

Nato said it “fully supports Ukraine’s sovereignty and its territorial integrity, including its navigational rights in its territorial waters”. A spokeswoman added: “We call on Russia to ensure unhindered access to Ukrainian ports in the Azov Sea, in accordance with international law.”

Additional reporting by agencies

====== 21 ========

ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ MOCKS FOX NEWS FOR HOSTING A PANEL TO DISCUSS HER WARDROBE

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has mocked Fox News for using a primetime television slot for a panel discussion centred around the newly elected Democrat’s clothing.

Ed Henry, Fox News’ chief national correspondent, and three political pundits talked about the fact a pair of Ms Ocasio-Cortez’s shoes are set to go on display at a Cornell University exhibition entitled Women Empowered: Fashions from the Frontline.

After a viewer alerted the incoming congresswoman to the debate, she responded with Spanish song lyrics by musical act Aventura translating as: “No, it’s not love, what you feel is called obsession.”

The rising political star said non-Spanish speakers could play Mariah Carey’s hit song “Obsession” instead – taking aim at the network for its frequent coverage of her.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez, 29, will became the youngest woman in history to serve in Congress when she takes office in January.

The newcomer has been engaged in a war of words with Fox News ever since the network made jokes about her finances and clothing choices earlier this month.

A self-avowed socialist from the South Bronx, she quipped that the network “has made it clear that they are far superior to [and] more intelligent than me, who they’ve called a ‘little, simple person.’ ”

Ms Ocasio-Cortez originally tweeted about her “campaign shoes” back in June following her victory against Democrat stalwart Joe Crowley in New York’s 14th congressional district.

She said she had won the primary because her team “outworked the competition”.

The Cornell exhibit will feature her worn-out shoes and includes other items of clothing from women who have succeeded in politics and other arenas – including Coretta Scott King, Janet Reno and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez, who volunteered for Bernie Sanders in 2016 presidential campaign, worked as a bartender before thrashing the 10-term representative and then-fourth-ranking Democrat in the House.

Earlier in November, a Fox News panel mocked her finances after she revealed she would have to wait for her congressional salary to kick in before she could afford to rent a home in Washington DC.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez said the news outlet’s reaction was “very revealing to see how gleefully Fox News hosts crack jokes about working class people.”

“It is bizarre to see 1%-salaried anchors laugh at the US housing crisis,” she added.

But her choice of clothing sparked a backlash earlier in the month after a journalist suggested she was a woman who “struggles” with money.

A photo taken of Ms Ocasio-Cortez was tweeted by Eddie Scarry of the Washington Times, who said: “Hill staffer sent me this pic of Ocasio-Cortez they took just now. I’ll tell you something: that jacket and coat don’t look like a girl who struggles”.

Dictionary.com’s Twitter account hit out at Mr Scarry for calling the 29-year-old a “girl,” tweeting him with the definition: “Girl. Noun. A female child, from birth to full growth. E.g. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is not a girl.”

====== 22 ========

EX-TRUMP CAMPAIGN ADVISOR GEORGE PAPADOPOULOS ORDERED TO GO TO JAIL

Donald Trump’s onetime advisor George Papadopoulos has been ordered to go jail, after he failed to persuade a judge to delay his two-week sentence.

Papadopoulos, who last year admitted lying to FBI agents about conversations with Russia-linked intermediaries during the 2016 presidential campaign, sought to delay the sentence while proceeding with a separate legal action challenging the constitutionality of Robert Mueller’s investigation.

But on Sunday, US District Court Judge Randy Moss said Papadopoulos’ arguments had failed to justify a delay and that he must present himself at the prison in Wisconsin on Monday.

As part of his plea deal with the team of Mr Mueller, which is investigating Russia’s alleged interference in the 2016 race and possible collusion by the Trump campaign, Papadopoulos forfeited most of his rights to contest his conviction.

“The court, accordingly, concludes that Papadopoulos’ motion for a stay pending his appeal of this decision lacks merit,” Mr Moss wrote in his ruling. “Plaintiff’s motion to continue bail and motion to stay his surrender date are hereby denied.”

Papadopoulos was sentenced in September, and along with the two weeks he must spend in jail, he must serve 200 hours of community service within a year and pay a fine of $9,500 (£7,400). At his sentencing hearing, the man who met with individuals claiming to have access to “dirt” on Hillary Clinton gathered by the Russian government, appeared contrite.

“People point and snicker and I am terribly depressed,” he told the judge. “This investigation has global implications and the truth matters.”

But CNN reported that since his hearing, the 31-year-old has obtained new legal representation and claimed on Twitter he was a victim in a government conspiracy and will “expose” a corrupt investigation.

Specifically, Papadopoulos claimed to the judge that his prison term should be put on hold while an appeals court weighs the constitutionality of Mr Mueller’s appointment as special counsel.

In his ruling on Sunday, Mr Moss appeared to dismiss the claim that Mr Mueller’s investigation was at odds with the US Constitution and predicted the DC Circuit Court of Appeals would uphold the special counsel’s authority.

“Based on the reasoning contained in those opinions [of other judges], court concludes that the prospect that the DC Circuit will reach a contrary conclusion is remote,” he said.

Papadopoulos will be the third defendant in Mr Mueller probe’s to serve jail time. Previously, the Dutch lawyer Alex Van Der Zwaan stayed a month in a Pennsylvania federal prison for lying to investigators, while the Californian fake ID salesman Richard Pinedo is being held in a southern California prison until mid-May 2019.

Neither Papadopoulos, or his lawyer, immediately commented on the judge’s ruling. His wife, Simona, tweeted on Wednesday he would serve his time in a prison facility in Wisconsin.

====== 23 ========

US POLITICS

====== 24 ========

BREXIT: EU LEADERS APPROVE THERESA MAY’S DEAL BUT WARN IT CANNOT BE RENEGOTIATED

EU leaders have approved Theresa May’s Brexit deal at a special summit in Brussels on Sunday, warning that it is “the only deal possible” within the prime minister’s red lines.

The signoff by the bloc paves the way for MPs to vote on the deal, with officials in Brussels told to expect MPs to make their decision on 10 or 11 December.

The 27 heads of state and government are understood to have avoided discussing what would happen if the deal was rejected by parliament, as now looks increasingly likely.

Officials privy to the private top-level meeting said the plan was adopted in “a matter of seconds” with one describing the short session as “solemn”.

Some EU chiefs gave emotional goodbyes to Britain, with council president Donald Tusk telling journalists: “Regardless of how it will all end, one thing is certain: we will remain friends until the end of days, and a day longer.”

But commission president Jean-Claude Juncker struck a starker tone, warning: “This is the best deal possible for Britain, this is the best deal possible for Europe, this is the only deal possible. The only deal possible.”

He added: “Those who think that by rejecting the deal that they would have a better deal will be disappointed in the first seconds after the rejection of this deal.”

Outside the summit, pro-Remain activists took a blowtorch to a mock copy of the withdrawal agreement, before they were asked to stop by Belgian police.

Speaking on the doorstep of the meeting, Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte said he did not expect MPs to reject the deal.

“I don’t expect a ‘no’ vote. I expect a ‘yes’ vote and this is the deal on the table. I don’t think there’s anything more,” he said.

Discussion about what to do in the event the deal was rejected was notable by its absence from the meeting, with one senior EU official saying there was “no appetite” for it after the gruelling slog to an agreement.

“I don’t think there were any ‘what if’ questions asked to Theresa May today, quite a few were wishing her good luck,” they said.

We don’t want to create the false impression for the UK that a better alternative deal is possible

Irish prime minister Leo Varadkar said: “We made the conscious decision as 27 not to speculate on alternative scenarios.

“We don’t want to create the false impression for the UK that a better alternative deal is possible.”

Austrian chancellor Sebastian Kurz added: “It is important that everyone in the UK is aware of the fact that this agreement is the final result. It will definitely not be renegotiated and there will be no further leeway.”

The European Council conclusions released after the meeting specifically thanked chief negotiator Michel Barnier “for his tireless efforts as the Union’s chief negotiator and for his contribution to maintaining the unity among EU27 member states throughout the negotiations”.

EU leaders met among themselves without Theresa May, and were then joined by the British prime minister to discuss the deal once they had signed it off. The PM has been in Brussels since Saturday afternoon putting the finishing touches to the deal.

Among the final hurdles was the issue of Gibraltar. The UK conceded in writing that Spain should have a veto over whether any future trade deal applies to Gibraltar – potentially storing up trouble down the road. Spain wants any future relationship governing the British overseas territory to be negotiated bilaterally between itself and the UK.

Behind the scenes, officials in Brussels were delighted with the result, particularly the maintenance of EU unity in the face of British attempts to divide the bloc.

“Many member states have had very particular concerns which are all legitimate, and there has been a willingness to accommodate,” one EU source said.

“More fundamentally that says something about the nature of the union. The union stands up for its member states – like Spain, Ireland. This is the essence of the union. I would tend to borrow a slogan and say ‘Stronger In’.”

====== 25 ========

LATEST UK POLITICAL NEWS AND POLITICAL DEBATES

====== 26 ========

ELON MUSK BELIEVES HE HAS A 70% LIKELIHOOD OF FLYING TO MARS DESPITE 'GOOD CHANCE OF DEATH'

Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk has claimed there is a 70 per cent likelihood he will make it to Mars on one of his spacecraft – despite there being “a good chance of death”.

The 47-year-old founder of Tesla, who is among several businessmen seeking to find a way to reach the red planet, said while some consider his vision a fantasy, he thinks making the journey could be possible in as little as seven years from now, with the price of a ticket as low as “a couple of hundred thousand dollars”.

“I know exactly what to do,” Mr Musk told Axios on HBO. “I’m talking about moving there.”

Mr Musk, who is also involved in a project to build a high-speed mass transit system underneath the streets of Los Angeles, is known for making remarks that frequently secure him both striking headlines and mocking derision.

Yet, in an interview with the programme, he insisted he was being serious in his predictions. He also said he did not see moving to Mars as an escape route for the super rich.

“Your probability of dying on Mars is much higher than Earth,” he said.

“Really, the ad for going to Mars would be like [Sir Ernest] Shackleton’s ad for going to the Antarctic [in the early 20th century].”

He added: “It’s going to be hard. There’s a good chance of death, going in a little through deep space.”

Mr Musk said even if someone was successful in reaching the planet, which at its closest is at least 34 million miles from the Earth, they would be “working nonstop to build the base”.

“So, you know, not much time for leisure. And even after doing all this, it’s a very harsh environment. So....there’s a good chance you die there,” he said.

“We think you can come back but we’re not sure. Now, does that sound like an escape hatch for rich people?”

Yet he said he was determined to try and go.

“There’s lots of people who climb mountains,” he said. “People die on Mount Everest all the time. They like doing it for the challenge.”

Mr Musk is the head of one of several private projects seeing to develop a way to reach Mars. Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic and Jeff Bezos’s Blue Origin, are among the main competitors.

Last month, Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, said he hoped to see the solar system populated by one trillion people.

“The dynamism that I have seen over the last 20 years in the internet where incredible things have happened in really short periods of time,” Mr Bezos, who accepted $500m (£390m) from the US military to help develop his project, said at an event in San Francisco to mark the 25th anniversary of the launch of Wired magazine.

Critics of have seized on the potential implications for the environment of Mr Bezos’s vision, and his willingness to work with the military. His comments came shortly after the UN’s climate science body, the the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), said there was barely a dozen years to make massive changes to global energy infrastructure to limit global warming to moderate levels.

Michael Mann, a climate expert and Professor of Earth Sciences at Penn State University, said it was “sometimes difficult to distinguish real word stories from satire”.

“I know Bezos has been looking for ways to leverage his immense wealth for the betterment of mankind. But I can’t help but wonder why these captains of technology always look away from the earth rather than towards it, when talking about confronting the challenges that face humanity,” he told The Independent.

====== 27 ========

COPA LIBERTADORES FINAL BETWEEN BOCA JUNIORS AND RIVER PLATE POSTPONED BY CONMEBOL

The 2018 Copa Libertadores final second leg between River Plate and Boca Juniors has been postponed until further notice after several Boca players were injured when their team bus was attacked on its way to the match.

The game had originally been scheduled to take place on Saturday evening but was held back until Sunday following the chaotic scenes. And just three hours before Sunday’s rearranged 5pm kick-off (8pm GMT), the South American football confederation confirmed the match would be further suspended.

Boca captain Pablo Perez and midfielder Gonzalo Lamardo were taken to hospital after the incident. Perez had injuries to his arm and eye, while Lamardo also an eye injury and suffered breathing difficulties because of the tear gas deployed by police.

Alejandro Dominguez, president of Conmebol, said there are not “equal conditions” for both teams after Boca players were hurt on their team’s route to Estadio Monumental, the home of their fierce Buenos Aires rivals.

“This is a disgrace that we’re talking about a situation like this, because of a few misfits, for what is a game of football,” said Dominguez. “This is not football. It’s not what any of us want. Football is the opposite. It is athletes, players, professionals, that live, work, give good examples on and off the pitch, that have families, responsibilities, and live the football that makes us all so passionate.

“There is a team who have been injured, and we are here for the good of the spectacle, so that when the starting of XI of both clubs enter the field, they go without any excuse, that match is played on a level playing field

“The organisation is going to be self-critical, but everyone has to be self-critical. It’s not a situation where we can look elsewhere for faults. The intolerance, the violence, we cannot leave these aside and take the responsibility for.

“It’s not just his [Perez’s] medical condition. There were four or five other players. I think in these conditions, this is all logical. That’s what’s critical.”

Earlier on Sunday, Boca had appealed to the governing body in a statement calling for the match to be called off. ”Boca considers that [equal] conditions have not been established and asks for the game to be suspended and sanctions applied,” the club said.

The match had been billed as the final to end all finals and one of the most significant in the history of world football, but the abiding memory of the weekend will instead be the shattered bus windows and unruly streets which brought the game to its knees before it had even begun.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 28 ========

PUP OF PEACE: DOG GIVEN AS PRESENT BY KIM JONG-UN GIVES BIRTH IN SOUTH KOREA

South Korea has published the first pictures of puppies which were mothered by one of North Korea‘s “peace gift” dogs.

The North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, sent two Pungsan hunting dogs to his southern counterpart Moon Jae-in in the autumn in a bid to promote good relations between the two countries.

One, called Gomi, has now given birth to three female and three male offspring.

President Moon shared photos of the dogs on the official Blue House Twitter feed on Sunday but did not say what the new arrivals would be called.

“As the pregnancy period of dogs is about two months, Gomi must have come to us pregnant,” he said. “I hope inter-Korean affairs will be like this.”

Days after the puppies were born, South Korea flew military planes filled with tangerines to the North’s capital Pyongyang, the BBC reports. The North had previously sent pine mushrooms over the border.

The exchange of gifts comes following a series of three historic meetings between Mr Moon and Mr Kim this year.

In September, Mr Moon became the first South Korean leader to give a speech to the North Korean public. He received a standing ovation from 150,000 people after speaking at the country’s Arirang Games, a major propaganda set piece in there. He has also acted as a mediator between Mr Kim and US President Donald Trump, who met each other in Singapore in June.

More recently, Mr Moon said he was confident the Korean War could soon be concluded.

The two countries are still technically in a state of hostilities having ended the 1950-53 conflict with a ceasefire rather than a peace treaty.

====== 29 ========

ASIA

Japan Airlines pilots failed alcohol breathalyser tests ‘19 times’

Revelation comes after one first officer was arrested at Heathrow for being 20 times over carrier's limit

====== 30 ========

JOHN ALLEN CHAU: POLICE STAKE OUT ISLAND WHERE AMERICAN MISSIONARY KILLED BY REMOTE ISLAND TRIBE

Police have mapped the area of a remote Indian island where tribespeople were seen burying the body of an American adventurer and Christian missionary.

John Allen Chau was apparently shot with arrows by islanders who then buried his body on a beach on North Sentinel Island, officers said.

Authorities will have to learn the “nuances of the group’s conduct and behaviour” before attempting to recover the body of the 27-year-old, said Dependra Pathak, the director-general of police of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where North Sentinel Island is located.

During their visit to the island’s surroundings on Friday, investigators spotted four or five North Sentinel islanders moving in the area from a distance of about 500m from a boat and studied their behaviour for several hours, said Mr Pathak.

“We have more or less identified the site and the area in general,” he said.

Friday’s visit was the second boat expedition of the week by a team of police and officials from the forest department, tribal welfare department and coast guard, Mr Pathak said.

The officials took two of the seven people arrested for helping Mr Chau get close to the island in an effort to determine his route and the circumstances of his death.

Officials typically do not travel to the North Sentinel area, where people live as their ancestors did thousands of years ago.

The only contacts, occasional “gift giving” visits in which bananas and coconuts were passed by small teams of officials and scholars who remained in the surf, were years ago.

Indian ships monitor the waters around the island, trying to ensure outsiders do not go near the Sentinelese, who have repeatedly made clear they want to be left alone.

Mr Chau went to “share the love of Jesus,” said Mary Ho, international executive leader of All Nations.

All Nations, a Kansas City, Missouri-based organisation, helped train Mr Chau, discussed the risks with him and sent him on the mission, to support him in his “life’s calling”, she added.

“He wanted to have a long term relationship, and if possible, to be accepted by them and live amongst them,” she said.

Police said Mr Chau knew that the Sentinelese resisted all contact by outsiders, firing arrows and spears at passing helicopters and killing fishermen who drift onto their shore.

His notes, which were reported on Thursday in Indian newspapers and confirmed by police, make clear he knew he might be killed.

“I don’t want to die,” he wrote. “Would it be wiser to leave and let someone else to continue? No I don’t think so.”

Mr Chau paid fishermen to take him near North Sentinel, using a kayak to paddle to shore and bringing gifts, including a football and fish.

Five fishermen, a friend of Mr Chau’s and a local tourist guide have been arrested for helping Mr Chau get to the island.

AP

====== 31 ========

CHARLIE BROWN CARTOON LABELLED RACIST OVER DEPICTION OF THANKSGIVING DINNER

Charlie Brown has joined Friends and The Simpsons as TV shows to be hit by a racial controversy after a Thanksgiving special dating back to 1973 was aired again.

The episode features the cartoon’s only black character, Franklin, sitting in a lawn chair on one side of a festive dinner table. The five white characters – and Snoopy the dog – sit on different sides in what appear to be dining seats.

“Why is Franklin in A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving sitting all by himself at the table,” asked one Twitter user. “Man. Things that I did not notice as a child.”

The outrage came after the special – which is shown every year in the US – was aired by ABC on Wednesday.

“Not watching Charlie Brown Thanksgiving anymore, until they sit some people on the same side of the table as Franklin,” another critic tweeted.

The scene in question centres on an impromptu holiday feast – of jelly beans and ice cream – in Charlie Brown’s back yard. At one point, the lonely Franklin – who is clearly too polite to question the unorthodox seating arrangement – topples over in his half-broken chair.

For some reason, no one appears to mention that there is a perfectly good dining seat free.

“They give our friend the busted chair and won’t even sit on the same side of the table, more proof that Charlie Brown and his cohorts are RACIST,” a social media commentator said.

But others defended the classic cartoon and pointed out its creator, the late Charles Schulz, fought to add Franklin to the cast to stand up to racism in 1968.

The character was created after a teacher wrote to him and asked for a black child to be included.

Harriet Glickman told Schultz that something as small as him writing a child of colour into his work as the friend of a white child could make a real difference to race relations in the US.

====== 32 ========

THE A-Z OF BELIEVING: O IS FOR OCCULT

One should not believe in superstitions, but it is best to be heedful of them – Sefer Hasdim

Look round any bookshop and the section on the occult is likely to be next to, or close by, the section on religion. Counting the books alone (and I confess to have been an avid reader of the Denis Wheatley Black Magic thrillers) confirms the popularity of the occult. The word is derived from the Latin word occultus, which means “hidden”. Both religion and the occult seek to make clear what is hidden to those who are not practitioners or believers.

What makes the occult so popular? The answer is straightforward: human interest in the unseen, in the working of the universe, not to mention a quest for power and control over the future, and over other individuals. Where then lies the difference between the occult and religion? The former practises magic and divination, which is an anathema to religion; while the latter’s focus on prayer, and on a mythology, by which to understand the world is dismissed by the occult.

For occultists, religious adherents are simply passive observers of the spiritual world, whereas they, the occultists, take an active role; religious believers simply “believe” in angels, while occultists talk directly with them; religious people interpret the word of God; occultists encounter the gods and ask for clarification. In other words, occultists don’t pray to their gods, they communicate with them; they don’t hope for a miracle, they create the miracle they need.

In short, religion is faith and the occult is knowledge. And from the religious perspective, because that knowledge is attained independently of divine revelation, the occult is condemned and accused of working for a malevolent entity – whether it is called the devil, or Satan or, simply, evil. Occultism involves many practices including magic, astrology, spiritualism, extra-sensory perception and numerology. Another is divination, the attempt to foretell the future.

Ironically, there is a strong religious element to each of these. Moses was perceived by the Egyptians as a magician and Jesus was accused of using demonic powers to effect exorcisms. The Bible (and other sacred texts), accept the realm of the occult is powerful because the world has a spiritual dimension with mysteries we cannot comprehend.

In 1453, Mehmet II stood at the gates of Constantinople and anxious to galvanise his siege-weary troops, summoned court astrologers, diviners and holy men to deliver their support.

Can seers foretell future events? Can mediums really talk to the dead? How do we explain psychic phenomena? If occultists possessed no real power, I suggest, they would have not been condemned to death, as the Book of Exodus has it, “a sorcerer shall not be allowed to live”. For his part, Jesus said the devil and his legion only seek to steal, kill, and destroy. And religious condemnation of the occult is common. Astrology is condemned in the Book of Isaiah, reincarnation in the Epistle to the Hebrews, divination and contacting the dead in Deuteronomy and fortune-telling by the prophet Ezekiel as well as in the book of Acts.

There are of course charlatans – the Jewish psychic Uri Geller was believed to have supernatural powers such as the ability to move or bend objects from a distance with his mind. He even managed to fool scientists. However, his powers were eventually shown to be false when retired magician and scientific sceptic James Randi performed the same feats.

Jewish tradition is no stranger to the occult, with its own history of golem-makers, sorcerers, and demon wranglers, and throughout the centuries Jews have been as afraid of evil spirits as anyone else. In theory, the Talmud states, rabbis did perform supernatural acts only to teach about God, as a means of recognising the creator. But people seem to have focussed on the supernatural rather than on its meaning.

The Talmud acknowledges many types of magic, such as magical blessings and acceptance of the power of amulets. As early as the Roman period, Jews used amulets as a defence against the evils and Judaism also speaks of Satan but sees Satan as an agent of God, testing the sincerity of human deeds and the stamina of moral conviction.

Jews practised astrology and looked for omens in the form of animals. Such beliefs persisted at least until the 19th century, when superstitions of the shtetl – that dybbuks could take possession of the body, or that the demon Lilith would come for misbehaving children, for instance – were largely left behind by the migrants to the west and Palestine. Still, immigrants couldn’t leave it all in Eastern Europe and I know Jews in America who grew up tossing salt over their shoulder to ward off the evil eye.

Likewise in the history of Islam, the occult has been commonly used. In 1453, Mehmet II stood at the gates of Constantinople and anxious to galvanise his siege-weary troops, summoned court astrologers, diviners and holy men to deliver their support. They predicted Muslim victory over the Christians and rode through the Ottoman camp spreading the good news and on 29 May, the city that had resisted so many sieges finally fell and the Byzantine empire breathed its last.

One of the most popular symbols of protection, for Christians, Jews and Muslims and others, is the human hand. Perhaps its most recognisable form in the Islamic world is the Hand of Fatima, a classic symbol to ward off evil influences seen in exquisite jewellery, from Qatar to Kuala Lumpar. CS Lewis warns us against ignoring the supernatural, but points out its dangers too: “There are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about devils. One is to disbelieve in their existence. The other is to believe, and to feel an unhealthy interest in them. They themselves are equally pleased by both errors and hail a materialist or a magician with the same delight.”

Next week is: P is for Pilgrimage

Listen to each episode of ‘An A-Z of Believing: from Atheism to Zealotry’ on the Woolf Institute podcast site or wherever you get your podcasts

***

Written and presented by Dr Ed Kessler MBE, founder and director of the Cambridge-based Woolf Institute, this compelling guide to religious belief and scepticism is a must-read for believers and nonbelievers alike.

Founded in 1998 to explore the relationship between religion and society, the Woolf Institute uses research and education to foster understanding between people of all beliefs with the aim of reducing prejudice and intolerance.

Says Dr Kessler: “Latest surveys suggest that 85 per cent of the world’s population identify themselves as belonging to a specific religion, and in many parts of the world the most powerful actors in civil society are religious. Understanding religion and belief, the role they play and their impact on behaviour and decision-making is, therefore, vital.”

Dr Kessler – who was awarded an MBE for services to interfaith relations in 2011 – is an affiliated lecturer with the Faculty of Divinity at Cambridge University, a principal of the Cambridge Theological Federation and additionally teaches at the Cambridge Muslim College.

He says: “This A-Z of Believing aims to show how the encounter between religions has influenced and been influenced by the evolution of civilisation and culture, both for good and for ill. I hope that a better understanding of believing will lead people to realise that while each religion is separate, they are also profoundly connected.”

====== 33 ========

SHORTCHANGING THE NEXT GENERATION’S MENTAL HEALTH IS A FALSE ECONOMY THE COUNTRY CAN ILL AFFORD

In the most in-depth stock take of young people’s wellbeing for more than a decade, an NHS report found one in eight children have a mental health disorder and numbers are rising.

The findings throw into stark relief the challenges that must still be overcome, despite rising public and political awareness.

Just hours earlier the children’s commissioner for England, Anne Longfield, warned in her own review of a “vast gap” between what NHS services are providing and what is needed.

Early treatment and support can prevent people reaching crisis point. Yet young people’s mental health gets just one-third of the funding of adult services, and over a third of young people referred to specialist support are never admitted, the commissioner’s report warns.

Theresa May’s government has made big pledges on putting mental health on an equal footing to physical conditions, and the chancellor snatched headlines with a promise of £2bn for mental health in the Budget – allocated from the £20bn already promised the NHS.

But economists looking into this commitment said it does not increase mental health’s share of the NHS’s rising budget – despite the sector being an area that has been grossly underinvested in historically.

In its child and adolescent mental health green paper last year, the government proposed reducing its waiting time target from six to four weeks for young people referred to specialist support – despite only half of children currently being seen within the existing target. While a pledge to increase mental health support in schools will see teachers or other staff becoming mental health leads, and working with specialist services to spot struggling children and refer them earlier.

But charities said the £300m plan was a “let down” and warned it would leave “hundreds of thousands of children unsupported”.

A third report was published on Thursday, this time by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which showed that mental health conditions at all ages already cost the UK economy £94bn a year – nearly half of this from lower employment and productivity.

But pounds, pence and statistics don’t do justice to the human cost.

In every school classroom in England there will be three pupils, on average, contending with emotional or behavioural disorders that are causing their home life, relationships or academic performance to suffer.

In sixth forms, where nearly a quarter of young women are experiencing conditions like anxiety or body dysmorphic disorder, more than half of this group will have self-harmed or attempted suicide in the past year.

At such a formative period these conditions cast a long shadow into the future, but experts like Professor Russell Viner of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health warn these numbers are just the tip of “the mental health crisis that engulfs our country”.

“Worse still,” he adds, “there are likely to be many more who are yet to be diagnosed.”

When ministers are next counting up their investment in mental health, they should remember that shortchanging the next generation, even unwittingly, is a false economy the country can ill afford.

====== 34 ========

HEALTH

====== 35 ========

'MANDELA AND THE GENERAL': THE SECRET NEGOTIATIONS THAT BROUGHT APARTHEID BLOODSHED TO AN END

I was immensely fortunate to be a foreign correspondent based in Johannesburg, working for The Independent, from 1989 to 1995.

From the privilege of the journalist’s front-row seat, I witnessed the drama of Nelson Mandela’s journey from prison to the presidency, the difficult death of the racist tyranny known as apartheid, and the establishment of democracy in South Africa for the first time since the arrival of the first European settlers in 1652.

Not all the descendants of those settlers were happy to see power finally slip from their grasp, least of all a group of bitter, fearful, and heavily armed farmers who, under the leadership of a retired general called Constand Viljoen, vowed to go to war to stop black rule.

Mandela’s lifelong quest for freedom had pitted him against one implacable adversary after another, but none was to prove more dangerous than Viljoen, a legendary military leader in the eyes of many white South Africans.

Mandela knew that should he fail to defeat the general and the far-right cause he embodied, the dream of a democratic South Africa was in mortal peril; the nightmare, he warned, was that his country would “drown in blood.”

Mandela responded as his instincts and his temperament demanded: he fought not with arms but with words; he resorted not to violence but to reason and charm.

In what was to be the last great challenge in his life’s mission to liberate black South Africa, he set himself the seemingly impossible task of meeting face to face with General Viljoen and persuading him not only to disarm, not only to call off the war, but to embrace the new, post-racial political order.

In putting together the story of Nelson Mandela’s implausible seduction of Constand Viljoen I have drawn on numerous personal encounters with Mandela and, still more revealingly, on a conversation I had with the general himself at a beachside bar in Cape Town several years after the fateful events described in this book.

I also met the general’s identical twin brother, Braam Viljoen, who played a discreet but critical role in bringing about peace in South Africa.

‘Mandela and the General’, by John Carlin and Oriol Malet is published by Plough

====== 36 ========

IS SPAIN’S THREAT TO ‘VETO BREXIT’ OVER GIBRALTAR JUST AN EMPTY ONE?

I understand Pedro Sanchez’s threat to “veto Brexit” was met with some mirth in Westminster. The Spanish prime minister, of course, cannot singlehandedly stop the UK’s exit from the bloc – and he doesn’t even have a veto on signing the withdrawal agreement.

With those facts in mind there is a temptation to think Mr Sanchez has overplayed his hand, and looks silly. Spain will inevitably have to climb down at some point before or during Sunday’s summit – or slink away.

Seen from Brussels, though, it feels too early for the Brits to start laughing just yet. Spain, like every other European Union country, does have a veto in one area of Brexit: on the planned free trade agreement between Britain and the EU.

Unlike the withdrawal agreement, which must only be passed by a “qualified majority” vote of the council (16 out of 28 member states representing 65 per cent of the total EU population), the trade agreement will need to be signed off by every single EU member and be approved by each one of their parliaments.

A government minister on Newsnight last night insisted it would be “quite unusual if something like that, with one particular country, was a spanner in the works for an entire deal for 28 countries”. This is, unfortunately, rubbish. In fact, it doesn’t even take a whole country: the Belgian region of Wallonia blocked and gained changes to the EU-Canada deal because under Belgium’s constitution regional parliaments must also be consulted. Those are the rules and they are not about to change.

Perhaps short-term factors are driving Mr Sanchez’s hard-line position: there are, after all, regional elections in Andalusia next month

That is precisely one of the reasons why free trade agreements take a long time, and why the prime minister’s claim that she’ll get one ratified before the end of the 21 month transition period is extremely unlikely to be true. (And thus why the Northern Ireland backstop is likely to kick in, despite the government’s claims).

Spain’s concern is that the future trade deal with the EU should not apply to Gibraltar, and the territory’s future must be negotiated bilaterally between Spain and Britain. Perhaps short-term factors are driving Mr Sanchez’s hardline position: there are, after all, regional elections in Andalusia next month, which borders the British territory, and where 10,000 Spanish people cross the border to work every day. Mr Sanchez may not even be in power when the trade agreement comes to be signed off – he leads a precarious minority government.

But even a change of government in Spain is extremely unlikely to change the dynamic. Mr Sanchez hails from the centre-left Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party (no relation). But his main adversary, the centre-right People’s Party, are even more into reclaiming Gibraltar than he is. Last month the party’s deputy leader, Teodoro Garcia Egea, said there was “no other option than a Spanish Gibraltar”. It was under General Franco that a Gibraltar español became government policy, and it has been so ever since, no matter the party.

Either way, even if Spain does not find a way to sink the deal or get what it wants on Sunday, in the not even very long term it will have Brexit Britain at its beck-and-call.

====== 37 ========

RAQQA AFTER ISIS: THE US DESTROYED THE CITY TO LIBERATE IT, BUT WHO WILL REBUILD?

In one terrible moment, Muhammad Ahmed Tadfi lost 10 members of his family when an airstrike destroyed their home in the west of Raqqa.

His mother, brother, sister-in-law and seven nieces and nephews were all killed as they sheltered in the basement in the final stages of the battle for the city, a little over a year ago. That they had survived the worst of the fighting made their deaths all the more senseless to him.

“The area was liberated. There was no Isis there,” he says, sitting in the restaurant where he now works. “They could have avoided this destruction.”

Tadfi is one of thousands across Raqqa who saw their lives devastated by the US-led coalition’s campaign to oust Isis from the capital of its so-called caliphate. Around 80 per cent of the city was destroyed and more than 1,400 civilians were killed in the battle, which saw the coalition use massive airpower to push out thousands of jihadist fighters.

But that death and destruction was only the beginning of Raqqa’s ordeal. One year on from its liberation, there is a sense among residents that the city has been forgotten by those who claimed to rescue it.

The US, which carried out the vast majority of the bombing, has shown little interest in rebuilding the city. More than that, critics say it has been unwilling to properly account for the true civilian death toll, let alone consider reparations.

“Everyone in Raqqa is angry about the airstrikes,” says Tadfi. “And no one is expecting any compensation. Even if they do give us money, it will go through the authorities and will be taken by the time it gets to us.”

He adds: “There is nothing to be optimistic about.”

This growing resentment overshadows the challenges ahead for the city. Residents are worried about what the neglect could mean for Raqqa’s future.

For the first two years of Syria’s civil war, Raqqa was relatively quiet compared to the rest of the country. It wasn’t until 2013 that opposition rebels captured the city from government forces.

By then, Isis had begun its march across northern Syria. Raqqa became the first Syrian city to fall under its control in early 2014. It would be referred to from then on as the group’s de facto capital. Over the next three years, it was used as a base for operations and its senior leadership. It was transformed into a theatre for some of the group’s most gruesome crimes, and became the heart of its propaganda operation.

Isis ruled with an iron fist, enforcing its warped version of Islam on residents and killing or imprisoning all who opposed it. They displayed the bodies of its victims in Naim square, in the centre of the city.

Completely unsolicited, people up and down the streets of Raqqa every day are venting their anger

“They killed you for any reason,” says one resident who did not wish to be named. “They came to us by force. Most people had no choice but to stay in their homes.”

By the time the US-led coalition turned its attention to Raqqa in late 2016, American military planners were issuing stark warnings that Isis was using it as a base to plan attacks on the west. US lieutenant general Stephen Townsend said there was “a sense of urgency” to attack Raqqa. The offensive started in November, beginning in the countryside in the north. By June of 2017, the mostly Kurdish Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), backed by US airpower, arrived on the edge of the city.

Civilians in Raqqa paid a heavy price for that urgency. The coalition fired more than 20,000 munitions into the city, from airstrikes to rockets and artillery shells. Airwars, an independent casualty monitor, says at least 1,400 civilians were killed in this way. Local monitors estimate 2,000 were killed by all sides.

But the true cost of the battle is likely much higher – one rescue worker in the city told The Independent they had pulled more than 4,000 bodies from the rubble and from mass graves, and they are not yet done.

In the year since the city’s liberation, insult has been piled on to injury for residents.

Tadfi’s story is just one example. The battle had been raging for three months when a missile struck his home on 5 September 2017. He wasn’t there at the time.

“I hoped they were still alive, but the whole building was destroyed,” he says. “After the liberation I went to the civil council to ask for permission to go to the house, but they told me I would have to pay to get the bodies back.”

Eventually, he paid the fee. “I took them and buried them in a cemetery myself,” he says.

His case is one of dozens investigated by Amnesty International over the summer. The tragedies were documented in a report released in June, which heavily criticised the coalition’s lack of interest in accounting for the civilian death toll.

The rights group said its investigation had revealed “prima facie evidence that several coalition attacks, which killed and injured civilians, violated international humanitarian law”.

The coalition has defended its conduct in Raqqa, arguing there was no other way to defeat such a ruthless enemy. Speaking to The Independent at the time of the report’s release, coalition spokesperson Colonel Sean Ryan said the fighting in Raqqa was “often house to house against an enemy with no regard for human life that used IEDs and booby traps every step of the way – and Raqqa citizens as human shields”.

He added: “Liberating the citizens of Raqqa was the goal and the other choice would be to let Isis continue to murder, torture, rape and pillage the citizens of Raqqa, and that is simply unacceptable.”

But Donatella Rovera, a senior crisis response adviser at Amnesty, who led the investigation, says the US showed a disregard for civilians during the campaign and criticised its current attitude.

She says: “Not every strike that leads to the death of civilians is unlawful, the key is establishing precisely that point. In order to do that, there needs to be a thorough investigation of every case, which is what the coalition should be doing, and they are not.”

I have three kids in school. The school has no windows, no bathroom, it was destroyed by the bombs

After spending months in the city for her research, Rovera says the level of mistrust between residents and the US-backed administration running the city is sinking every day. The Raqqa Civil Council, the body that now runs the province, was set up by the US-backed SDF following the defeat of Isis. It is tasked with running a city filled with residents who hold it at least partly responsible for the destruction that surrounds them.

“Completely unsolicited, people up and down the streets of Raqqa every day are venting their anger. And I sense a real difference between my visit earlier this year and today. People had a bit more hope that those who destroyed their homes and businesses and killed their families were going to come and look at what they had done, and help,” she says.

Raqqa is in need of significant international support to recover. But while the SDF was given everything it needed for the military campaign to capture the city, it has largely been abandoned to take care of reconstruction.

Even as the battle for the city was raging, the US was warning that it would not commit to long-term reconstruction efforts. In August 2017, the coalition’s special envoy Brett McGurk said: “Don’t look to the United States to fit the bill for long-term reconstruction. This is an international problem.”

In August this year, the US announced that it would be halting a $230m (£180m) payment set aside for stabilisation projects in Syria. The money was originally meant for the recovery of areas liberated from Isis by the coalition, but Washington now insists that future funds from the US are dependent on a political transition in Damascus.

In the meantime, Raqqa’s ruins stand as a monument to indifference. Bodies still lie beneath the rubble. Empty shells of buildings loom over every neighbourhood. The power grid has not yet been repaired, so most rely on generators for electricity. And the security situation is more precarious now than it was a year ago, as Isis sleeper cells are beginning to return to the city. Residents complain of crime and corruption and they are being left to simmer in their anger.

“The timespan that it took for people to move from being somewhat hopeful to being completely alienated and angry and disappointed, it has happened very quickly here,” says Rovera. “The disconnect between the residents and those who govern them and those who carried out the military operation is enormous.”

“The council is being set up to fail,” she adds.

Analysts, meanwhile, are warning that the potential fallout could undo everything the coalition hoped to achieve in its defeat of Isis.

“The lack of reparations for deaths caused by airstrikes, in tandem with the policy of disassociation from Raqqa’s reconstruction is going to ensure that the city turns into a magnet for resentment, extremism, and radicalisation for the next 10 years,” says Colin Clarke, senior research fellow at the Soufan Centre and author of an upcoming book After the Caliphate.

“The global community spends billions of dollars on counter-terrorism in ‘failed states and ungoverned spaces’ but when presented with the opportunity to rebuild what was the central node of the caliphate, Raqqa, there is little interest. It’s a missed opportunity that will come back to haunt the west, as well as some powers in the region.”

It is already haunting residents here. Abu Muhammad, an official with Raqqa civil council’s reconstruction committee who is using an alias because he fears being targeted by Isis, is better placed than most to see what lies ahead.

He has lived in Raqqa all his life, apart from the months he left during the coalition offensive against Isis. He was a teacher before the war, but when Isis took over the city he became a taxi driver. He now works in the department of the civil council responsible for getting the city back up and running.

“There is no stability here, it’s a miserable situation for everyone. The coalition bombed everything, but they didn’t have much choice,” he tells The Independent.

Like most Raqqa residents, he is able to list the city’s ills on request. He talks about the price of cement and the number of jobless, the decimation of its infrastructure, the anger and the hopelessness. But his main concern is how the next generation will fare in this ruined city.

“I have three kids in school. The school has no windows, no bathroom, it was destroyed by the bombs,” he says. “We have 17-year-old kids who don’t read or write. If we don’t fix this quickly, we will have a new Isis.”

Read the first part in the Raqqa after Isis series here: Meet the 30-year-old woman rebuilding the former capital of the ‘caliphate’ and the second piece here: Mass grave reveals horror of city’s final battle

====== 38 ========

WHEN FALLING IN LOVE, DON’T LOOK DOWN

Love can be precipitous. So can mountainsides. In the early stages of a relationship, holidays take on a totemic role, symbolising and fulfilling the desire to be with a partner every minute of the day. They can be a test too, of a couple’s compatibility in a foreign environment. Fifteen years ago my girlfriend and I travelled to the northern Italian Alps on what was our second trip abroad together. We had previously been to the Ionian island of Kefalonia, which had been new for me but an old favourite of hers. This time, the roles were reversed as I attempted to convince her of the merits of mountains.

An evening departure from Gatwick meant that we arrived well after nightfall. On our first morning we were rudely awoken by an oompah band marching past our hotel – lederhosen ahoy! It was not a auspicuous start.

I had promised that I would not take us on difficult walks and had even agreed to leave my own walking boots at home as a sign of non-intent. Instead, we swam in the hotel pool, explored the nearby valleys and used chairlifts to access the alpine meadows above the town. And we were in love so what would it matter if I occasionally glanced up longingly at the less accessible mountain passes?

After some gentle days of meandering, I suggested we tackle a slightly longer route – probably about seven miles in all. It was a circular walk: the first half a fairly gentle climb through meadows in which cows tolled their bells and the sweet smell of summer hay hung heavily.

It all felt grimly portentous. A rickety footbridge across a fast-running stream squeaked as we crossed it. Praying at one of the wayside shines which dot the Alps almost seemed in order.

The sun shone; great, grey dolomitic slabs rose almost vertically against a barren azure sky. All was well in the world.

The way back down to the main valley in which we were staying was similarly straightforward, the contours of my map showing that the steepness of the slope was nothing to worry about – even for a couple in trainers.

As the path entered a wood, however, I was surprised to see the ground falling away sharply to our right, the trees thinning before what appeared to be a near-sheer drop into the next side valley. Looking at the map again I realised I had checked the gradient of our direction of travel but not the pitch of the hillside running parallel to the path.

Pine needles covered the path, making it slippery. Our hand-holding became a matter of necessity. To make matters worse, the previously clear sky was rapidly darkening and there were occasional flashes of distant lightning. It all felt grimly portentous.

A rickety footbridge across a fast-running stream squeaked as we crossed it. Praying at one of the wayside shines which dot the Alps seemed in order.

At last we made it to the main road and gratefully caught a bus back up the valley to our hotel. I felt like a dimwit for not reading the map properly; my girlfriend, a little shaken by the experience, was less than impressed.

That day has certainly not been forgotten. Still, in case you’re wondering reader, she married me.

====== 39 ========

ALABAMA MALL SHOOTING: POLICE ADMIT THEY KILLED INNOCENT BLACK MAN BY MISTAKE AS TRUE THANKSGIVING GUNMAN REMAINS AT LARGE

Alabama police have admitted the man they shot dead during a Thanksgiving gunfight was an innocent shopper. The 21-year-old black man, shot by mistake, did not fire a gun, and the real shooter or shooters are still at large.

On Thursday night, gunfire broke out in Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, Alabama. An 18-year-old and a 12-year-old were wounded and taken to a hospital. Some people hid in back rooms of the mall and others fled, AL.com reported.

Police alleged that Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr was involved in an altercation that ended in gunfire, and a police officer reportedly thought that Mr Bradford was the shooter. He did have a gun, for which he had a permit, and when an officer saw him fleeing, the officer shot Mr Bradford dead.

Hoover Police Department initially told reporters Mr Bradford had shot a teen at the mall, but later retracted the statement. However, police have now admitted that Mr Bradford likely did not fire his weapon, and the real shooter was still at large. According to witnesses, two separate instances of gunfire were heard during the shooting.

More than 200 demonstrators, including several relatives, chanted "EJ" and "no justice, no peace" as they marched past Christmas shoppers at the mall. They held a moment of silence at the spot outside a shoe store where Bradford was killed.

Upon hearing the accusations against Mr Bradford his stepmother, Cynthia Bradford, said: "We knew that was false."

"They should have never have killed him,” Mr Bradford's half sister, 7-year-old Emani Smith, said.

Protesters gathered outside outside the mall to challenge the actions of the police, AL.com reported.

They asked shoppers to boycott the mall, and demanded answers from the police department. Mr Bradford’s aunt Catherine Jewell said that he was “a great guy” and that no police officer had come to his mother’s house to inform her of the death; instead, she found out on Facebook.

Demonstrators demanded the officer involved release his body camera footage. The update garnered anger online, and Black Lives Matter activists protested on Saturday.

The police department said it was still investigating.

Additional reporting by agencies

====== 40 ========

DEMOCRATS VOW TO PROBE INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF KHASHOGGI KILLING AFTER TRUMP CLAIMS CIA ‘DID NOT CONCLUDE’ SAUDI PRINCE BEHIND MURDER

Senior Democrats have vowed to investigate the US intelligence community’s assessment of who was behind the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, after Donald Trump insisted – contrary to reports – the CIA had not concluded Saudi Arabia’s crown prince was responsible.

Congressman Adam Schiff, who in recent days has become a target for what many consider the president’s childish habit of name-calling, said it was essential to discover who ordered the 2 October murder of the Saudi writer.

“Certainly we will be delving further into the murder of Khashoggi, and I want to make sure that the committee is fully debriefed on it,” Mr Schiff, who is set to become chair of the House of Representatives’ intelligence committee, told The Washington Post.

“We will certainly want to examine what the intelligence community knows about the murder,” Mr Schiff added.

Saudi Arabia has denied that Crown Prince Mohammed had anything to do with the killing. The Saudi public prosecutor has blamed a “rogue” kidnap operation for the killing of Mr Khashoggi.

Last week, it was reported that the CIA had concluded with “high confidence” that due to Crown Prince Mohammed’s position as de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia the killing would have required his endorsement.

Mr Schiff, who some have touted as a possible future speaker for the House of Representatives, made the comments after Mr Trump again insisted the CIA had not concluded Mohammed bin Salman had ordered the killing of Mr Khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.

“They did not come to a conclusion. They have feelings, certain ways, but I have the report,” the president told reporters during a Thanksgiving Day telephone press conference. “They have not concluded. Nobody’s concluded. I don’t know if anyone could conclude that the crown prince did it.”

Asked who should be held accountable for the killing if not Saudi Arabia, the president replied: “Maybe the world should be held accountable because the world is a vicious place. The world is a very, very vicious place. You look at what’s happening in China, you look at what’s happening in so many different countries, I could name many countries. You look at what’s happening in terrorism all over the world.”

Mr Trump has been widely criticised for giving what many consider a pass to the Saudi authorities in order to retain a long-standing strategic and economic relationship with the nation. Mr Trump has certainly not sought to play down what he says is his main motivation, saying he wants to ensure access to weapons sales and cheap oil.

The 59-year-old journalist went missing after entering a consulate in Turkey to prepare for a trip to Saudi Arabia to get married. Turkish investigators believe the journalist was dismembered and his body parts removed by a 15-strong hit squad.

The Washington Post said CIA officials were confident in their assessment of what was behind the killing, even if they were unable to provide Mr Trump what he has termed a smoking gun. They based their assessment on multiple sources of information, the newspaper said.

Mr Schiff said “congressional scrutiny” of the issue would seek to flesh out what the intelligence community had concluded, and how firm the basis was for its conclusion.

“We’ll look at what the intelligence community assessments are at any given time,” he said. “Then it will be quite clear whether the president is relying on the intelligence community and our best source of information or whether the president is representing something very different.”

He added: “There are a whole set of potential financial conflicts of interest and emoluments problems that congress will need to get to the bottom of. If foreign investment in the Trump businesses is guiding US policy in a way that’s antithetical to the country’s interests, we need to find out.”

The White House has yet to comment on Mr Schiff’s remarks. Reuters said that in 2015, Mr Trump told a rally he earned “hundreds of millions” of dollars from Saudi purchases. However, speaking to reporters before he left for Florida, he claimed that self-interest had no place in his decision.

“We are staying with Saudi Arabia, and by the way, I have no business with Saudi Arabia. I couldn’t care less,” he said. “This is about America first.”

Turkey’s top diplomat has said the Saudi crown prince, currently in the UAE as part of a tour of Arab states, has requested a meeting with Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the sidelines of the upcoming Group of 20 summit in Buenos Aires.

Mevlut Cavusoglu told Turkey’s CNN-Turk television that Turkey saw “no obstacle” for a meeting between the two, but added that Mr Erdogan would make the final decision on whether to meet the prince at the two-day G20 summit that starts on 30 November. It would be the first meeting between the two since the killing of Mr Khashoggi.

====== 41 ========

SYRIA ACTIVIST WHO LED ANTI-ASSAD PROTEST MOVEMENT ASSASSINATED BY GUNMEN IN HOMETOWN

A prominent Syrian activist who led a protest movement against the regime of Bashar al-Assad has been assassinated by unknown gunmen.

Raed Fares, 45, was a frequent critic of Islamist extremists in Syria and the driving force behind a years-long pro-democracy campaign in the small town of Kafranbel.

The campaign was known for its witty and heartfelt banners that were shared on social media to draw attention to Syria’s plight.

As Syria’s civil war descended deeper into violence and polarisation, Fares and his cohorts in Kafranbel became known as the “conscience of the revolution” for their stubborn adherence to the original, democratic ideals of the Syrian uprising.

They held weekly demonstrations in the town calling out everyone who stood in the way of a democratic Syria, including jihadist fighters who held sway in the area.

During a meeting in Istanbul with Western journalists, he acknowledged that his forays to Syria were becoming increasingly dangerous, and that he knew extremist groups who dominate parts of Idlib province were gunning for him.

Over coffee, he also voiced dismay over the fate of the Syrian uprisings. He knew that his campaign was likely to fail, but vowed to go on.

“If I die, at least I will die in Syria,” he said.

He had been abducted and targeted numerous times by extremist Islamist groups, including Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, a former affiliate of Al Qaeda. In 2014, Isis gunmen opened fire on his car with automatic rifles, leaving him with a punctured lung. He continued with his work, undeterred.

“They’ve tried that five times already,” he recently told the BBC of the attempts on his life. “If it happens, it happens. But they haven’t succeeded yet. I try to survive, but if I can’t, it’s OK.”

He was reportedly gunned down by masked men in Kafranbel just before Friday prayers in his hometown. Hammoud Juneid, another activist, was also killed.

The banners that Fares created often tried to reference events happening elsewhere in the world and connect them to the war in Syria. They were written in Arabic, Turkish and broken English, but their messages were clear and direct.

“Charleston shootings are the other face of Assad massacres. Terrorism has no nationality, or religion,” said one in 2015, following a mass shooting at a church in North Carolina.

“We stand in solidarity with the oppressed who cannot breathe #blaklivesmatter,” read another, the year before.

Often, the messages were laced with an arresting humour. One banner addressing the former UN envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, read: “De Mistura ideas to reality are like windmills to Don Quixote.”

Fares was also known for the radio station he founded in the town in 2013. Radio Fresh is one of the few independent stations broadcasting from inside the country, and has been the target of repeated raids by extremist groups in the area who objected to the music they played, among other things.

The station was supported in part by US “stabilisation aid” to humanitarian groups in Syria. When that funding was withdrawn by President Donald Trump’s administration earlier this year, Fares wrote an impassioned defence of his work in an op-ed for the Washington Post.

“In the absence of peaceful, democratic political voices, terrorists have been able to convince Syria’s vulnerable youth that violence and destruction can somehow pave the way to stability,” he wrote. “Civil society groups and independent media are working tirelessly to oppose these messages – in ways that resonate with local audiences. Syria’s democratic future relies on our success.”

A number of Syrian activists blamed the killing on Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the most powerful rebel group in Idlib province.

Yassin Swehat, a journalist and co-founder of the opposition Jumhuriya online magazine, tweeted: “The revolution has been assassinated by the lowly al-Nusra Front,” using the group’s former name.

Fadel Abdul Ghany, founder and chair of the Syrian Network for Human Rights, described the killing as a “tragedy”.

Fares’s last online post was published on his Facebook page on 5 October. It showed a video of a protest in Kafranbel, with the words: “The people of Kafranbel are in Huriyah [Freedom] Square and voices are chanting: The people want the downfall of the regime. We started this in 2011 and we are continuing on. Our loyalty to the martyrs and detainees has increased our determination.”

====== 42 ========

MIDDLE EAST

Wife of British 'spy' now says UK is doing all it can to support him

====== 43 ========

MULTI-MILLIONAIRE CRUSHED TO DEATH BY TRACTOR DRIVEN BY HIS PET DOG

A multimillionaire farmer died after his dog hit a lever inside the cab of his tractor, putting the vehicle in motion and crushing him as he was building a rookery, an inquest has heard.

Entrepreneur Derek Mead left the JCB farm loader with the engine running and with the animal inside, as he worked on the structure in his garden.

The father-of-three was crushed against a gate and suffered a fractured vertebrae and traumatic asphyxia in the accident on 4 June 2017.

He was found by his son who called the emergency services. Paramedics tried to save him but he died at the scene.

It is thought the small dog may have jumped up to see where the 70-year-old was, and hit the lever, which was apparently as easy to turn on as a car indicator, putting the vehicle into motion, the inquest at Flax Bourton, Bristol, heard.

Simon Chilcott, a health and safety inspector who investigated the incident, described the timeline of events leading to Mr Mead’s death.

He said: “Mr Mead has pulled off the road, come to a halt with footbrake, made it stationary and put the shuttle into neutral. It was still in gear.

“He is now out of the vehicle and had it been knocked at any point when he got out it would have started moving.

“You couldn’t knock it as you are climbing out without realising you’ve done it.

“In the cab of the vehicle was a small dog and whether the dog has put its paws on the door to wait – or been jumping up to see where its master has gone – he has most likely collided with the lever.

“As he jumped up to put his paws up to look, he has put machine into a forward motion. Operating the lever is no more difficult than changing an indicator stick on your car.”

Mr Chilcott also gave a technical explanation of the vehicle’s machinery during the inquest.

To start the engine, a key is required and it has two pedals, an accelerator and brake, similar to an automatic car.

There is a gear stick and a handbrake to the left of the seat which is firmly fixed and difficult to move without force.

The mechanism knocked by the dog is called a “direction shuttle”, which resembles an indicator, and is located to the left of the steering column.

Once moved out of neutral, the machine will move forward without the need to accelerate.

Son Alistair, who cried throughout the one-hour hearing, found Mr Mead trapped against the gate and unresponsive.

In a statement read at the inquest, he said: “Dad was crouched down facing the machine with his back to the gate as if he had seen the machine coming towards him and ducked to avoid it.”

Summing up, assistant coroner Dr Peter Harrowing said: “Mr Mead was very experienced in using the piece of equipment.

“The most likely explanation is that the dog inadvertently moved the shuttle lever, causing Mr Mead to be trapped against the gate.

“The death of Mr Derek Mead was one of a very tragic accident.”

Mr Mead’s brother Roger was killed 30 years ago when his tractor overturned while he was out working on his land.

Mr Mead, who died at his farm The Laurels in the village of Puxton, Weston-super-Mare, Somerset, was a leading businessman and a major landowner in the area.

He was the managing director of Mead Realisations which owns Puxton Park. He also owned the Sedgemoor Auction Centre at junction 24 of the M5.

He was also a longstanding member of the National Farmers’ Union before resigning in 2010 in a protest at what he said was its failure to support dairy farmers.

Mr Mead farmed around 3,000 acres in North Somerset and also owned racehorses.

Support free-thinking journalism and subscribe to Independent Minds

SWNS contributed to this report

====== 44 ========

HOME NEWS

====== 45 ========

CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES: RAIN HELPS ENSURE CAMP FIRE BLAZE IS NEARLY FULLY CONTAINED ALTHOUGH HUNDREDS REMAIN MISSING

More rain is forecast for northern California over the weekend after helping firefighters nearly fully contain one of the state's deadliest wildfires, which has killed at least 84 people.

After a particularly rainless year, the so-called Camp Fire has ravaged most of the town of Paradise and left hundreds still missing.

An inch and a half of rain graced the area on Wednesday, helping to nearly extinguish the blaze which is now 95 per cent contained. Rain also helped reduce the Woolsey fire in Southern California - which has killed three people. That blaze is now reported to be 100 per cent contained.

Between one to three inches (2.5-7.5cm) of rain is expected to fall between Friday and Sunday, adding to the three inches that already fell this week, the National Weather Service (NWS) said.

"Flash floods and debris flows will be a particular threat in the wildfire burn areas," the NWS said in a notice warning of the risk of flash floods through Friday. "Heavy rainfall at times is possible over the burn areas with the greatest threat expected today."

Fire scars leave land with little to no vegetation to stem potential flooding, rock slides, mud slides, and debris flows.

As many as 560 people are still unaccounted for. That number has fluctuated widely over the past week, hitting a high of more than 1,200 over last weekend.

Many of those missing are believed to be aged 65 and over.

Rain has the potential of complicating rescue and recovery efforts as well. Firefighters and rescue workers have to deal with muddy and unstable ground.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration also issued a flash flood watch warning and wind advisory for Butte County and other areas that the Camp Fire have affected.

That risk is low for thousands of evacuees who have fled the Camp Fire and are sheltering outside areas prone to mudslides.

Reuters contributed to this report

====== 46 ========

TYLER, THE CREATOR'S CHRISTMAS EP IS A REMINDER THAT HIS UK BAN IS BEYOND EMBARRASSING

And lo! It came to pass. Last week there went out a decree from Mariah Carey, the queen of Christmas tunes, that all the world should crack out the holiday music from the day of Thanksgiving, or 22 November. Which was great news because Tyler, the Creator just released a brilliant, six-track Christmas EP.

Music Inspired by Illumination & Dr Seuss’ The Grinch might not sound like the sort of thing you’d expect from a California rapper who little more than a decade ago was busy swallowing cockroaches and writing lyrics about raping pregnant women and necrophilia, but it’s true. He even went on Twitter to explain that his aim for the EP was to keep “seven-year-olds in mind but wanting the parents to listen also”. How times have changed.

But here’s the real absurdity: the talented, inventive, ever-evolving creator that is Tyler is still banned from visiting the UK thanks to Theresa May. Even Snoop Dogg had his ban overturned after a short while (thanks to a personal request from the Queen, according to Snoop, whose “grandbabies” apparently love his music).

To recap: Tyler was banned from visiting the UK in 2015 for three to five years and had to cancel a bunch of tour dates, including the Reading and Leeds festivals. May, while Home Secretary, cited lyrics from his first mixtape, Bastard, which was released six years earlier, in 2009. Much of Bastard is admittedly gross, but he was 17 at the time, and if we banned all artists who made offensive material in their earlier days, the list would be endless. For a start, has she heard of Eminem?

“Coming to the UK is a privilege,” the letter from the government said on his ban, “and we expect those who come here to respect our shared values. The home secretary has the power to exclude an individual if she considers that his or her presence in the UK is blah blah blah blah blah.”

In 2016 track “My Ego”, Tyler responded, saying: “Tell Theresa May to let me in / I been going in since 2010 / It gotta be the colour of my skin / Cause there’s n****s there / That doing more damage than my pen, man / Said some old lines was offensive / I was young, I can’t apologise for that shit / They took my fiction literature for literal / I ain’t no motherf***in’ criminal.”

It’s a shame because, as artistic evolutions go, Tyler’s has been one of the most interesting and surprising to watch. Sure, there were flecks of the melodious, jazz-inflected dreamery of Flower Boy (2017) and Cherry Bomb (2015) in Wolf (2013), in tracks “Treehome95” and “Bimmer”, for example, but the reach and span of his creative development is comparable to Kanye West, say, or Kate Bush. His beats, arrangements and production have improved but he hasn’t compromised any of his playfulness or imagination.

At a time when most artists’ output tends towards entropy, he’s a rare beast. Even back in 2011 when he was releasing some pretty questionable stuff despite the glorious “Yonkers”, watching early Odd Future, the collective group he de facto leads at SXSW in Austin, Texas remains the most exhilarating gig I’ve ever been to. Tyler and Hodgy rapped from the corrugated tin roof before jumping into the frenzied crowd. It was pure dynamite.

In the last few years, Tyler has made efforts to disassociate himself from the homophobic and misogynistic lyrics of his earliest releases, which led Glaad (Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation) to call him out for his lyrics when he won a VMA in 2011 for Best New Artist. He called Goblin, released the same year, in which he uses the word “faggot” multiple times horrible, and said he’d only keep seven of the tracks. In interviews and his own writing online, he’s said that he wasn’t using the words to refer to sexuality. “I’m not homophobic. I just think ‘faggot’ hits and hurts people. It hits. And ‘gay’ just means you’re stupid. I don’t know, we don’t think about it, we’re just kids,” he said to NME.

In 2015 he designed a T-shirt on his fashion label Golf Wang for Pride. Then, in 2017, tweets and lyrics from Flower Boy suggested he was coming out as gay or bisexual, or maybe just trolling everyone. This week, most stories online about Tyler weren’t about his new EP, however, but comments Jaden Smith made about him being his boyfriend. Are they a couple? Who cares. Everything Tyler says should be taken lightly. Added to that many rappers have historically used homophobic and misogynistic words and deployed graphic images that wouldn’t make it into a film certified 18. The main thing is that he stopped rapping hateful bile, and using anti-gay slurs, whether they’re intended in that way or not.

Tyler, the Creator’s continuing ban is unprecedented, and still in force because the prime minister decided he was “not conducive to the public good” in a strange, narrow minded, blinkered, stubborn, dogged decision. (Ring any bells?) Sure, the government has a colossal act of national self-harm to attend to, but it’s worth remembering that, while the history of Tyler is complex and problematic, the UK ban is deeply hypocritical, silly and embarrassing. He doesn’t belong with various neo-Nazis and criminals. And, as Tyler’s manager, Christian Clancy, questioned at the time: is race a conscious or subconscious factor at all?

====== 47 ========

AS ROBERT MUELLER'S RUSSIA PROBE REGAINS MOMENTUM AFTER THE MIDTERMS - WHERE IS IT HEADED NEXT?

Set against a White House that has become known for tweets, leaks and tell-all books from former staff, Robert Mueller’s Russia probe has been an oasis of calm and quiet.

The investigation has been virtually leak-proof, even with it representing the shadow which has followed Donald Trump through the entire 18 months of his presidency.

Weeks of public silence about the probe – imposed due to not wanting to undermine the midterm elections which took place earlier in November – look like they are coming to an end and a sense of urgency is returning.

First, a reminder of the scope of special counsel Mueller’s FBI investigation. The brief has been to look into Russian interference in the 2016 US election, and “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump”.

So far, that has led to 32 indictments or guilty pleas involving around two dozen Russian nationals, three Russian companies and four former Trump campaign officials.

Of those four officials, former Trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI, as did Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn.

Not directly related to the investigation into election meddling, former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and his associate Rick Gates eventually accepted plea deals having been charged with financial crimes over political lobbying activities in Ukraine. Rick Gates was first, while Manafort was convicted of a number of counts at a trial in Virginia, with a mistrial declared on other counts. Manafort then accepted a plea deal to avoid a second trial in Washington DC.

The Manafort plea is the most interesting of those, as he offered cooperation with the Mueller probe as part of the deal back in September and could possibly be rolled out as a star witness in any future attempts at trials.

As for the president himself, this week he finally submitted written answers to Mueller’s team – who are also looking into the possibility of the president having obstructed the investigation. Mueller and Trump’s legal team have been negotiating for months about a sit-down interview with the president, but Trump has said that is “probably” off the table.

However, Rudy Giuliani – the president’s lead lawyer dealing with the Russia probe, has not ruled out more questions from Mueller. “We’ll consider them and answer them if necessary, relevant and legal,” Giuliani said this week. “If it was something that would be helpful, relevant – not a law school exam.”

The answers to Mueller’s questions from the president relate to the 2016 presidential campaign and the time before Trump was sworn into office, however it is unclear how much the answers go into what happened during the president’s transition into the White House.

Trump’s lawyers have also made clear they would push back against any questions involving the time in office – which includes firing the former head of the investigation then-FBI director James Comey – by citing executive privilege. Trump’s feelings on the investigation have always been clear; there was no collusion and it is a “witch hunt” against him and his administration.

While Mueller could return to Trump once his answers have been assessed, it has not stopped his team from nibbling around the edges of Trump’s world. Conservative commentator Jerome Corsi is the latest to say that he is in plea negotiations with Mueller’s team.

Corsi is an associate of long-time Trump ally and confidante Roger Stone, with questions likely to be surrounding Wikileaks and the release of thousands of Democrat emails in the last weeks of the 2016 election. It could bring Mueller’s team closer to determining whether Trump or his advisers were linked to the release of the emails.

During the 2016 campaign, Stone publicly bragged about having “backchannel communications” with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, and on several occasions appeared to predict the WikiLeaks releases.

The questions Corsi has likely faced in his hours of interviews with investigators relate to any possibility he acted as an intermediary for Stone.

In the two years since the election, Stone has walked back his claims and Wikileaks have also denied coordination. Stone denies that he ever told Trump about WikiLeaks’ dumps before they became public. He also denies colluding with Russia.

However, it seems clear that Mueller’s team seem certain that talking to Stone’s associates, and maybe eventually Stone himself, could open up new avenues of inquiry.

Beyond the minutiae of the investigation, there have been growing fears in Congress about the threat of interference with Mueller’s probe as he enters the beginning of the end of the investigation. Those worries have been exasperated by Trump using the end of the midterms as an excuse to force out the attorney general Jeff Sessions and replace him with the acting attorney general Matthew Whitaker.

Sessions had recused himself from the Russia probe last year, with deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein overseeing the investigation. However, Whitaker – who has previously expressed doubts over the scope of Mueller’s activities and suggested cutting funding is a way to limit them – is now in charge.

A number of attempts have been made to challenge Whitaker’s appointment in the courts, while legislation protecting Mueller has been suggested in the Senate, but knocked back by Republican Party leadership.

Amid it all, Mueller and his team have silently been going about the business of gathering potential evidence. Mueller is the only one that knows how far away he is from finishing, and the probe could stretch into next year given how close we are to Christmas. But do not bet against the type of surprise indictments, or even the full report, that Mueller and his team have so far been able to keep veiled from the prying eyes in Washington DC.

====== 48 ========

REPUBLICANS WARY OF PLOT TO IMPEACH TRUMP: 'WE KNOW THE DEMOCRATS HAVE A PLAN'

Whatever happened to trying to impeach Donald Trump?

As House Democrats begin laying out the vision for their new majority, that item is noticeably missing from the to-do list and firmly on the margins.

The agenda for now includes spending on public works projects, lowering health care costs and increasing oversight of the administration.

It's the balance that Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is trying to strike in the new Congress between those on her party's left flank who are eager to confront the president, and her instinct to prioritise the kitchen-table promises that Democrats made to voters who elected them to office.

“We shouldn't impeach the president for political reasons and we shouldn't not impeach the president for political reasons,” Pelosi recently told The Associated Press.

The California lawmaker, who hopes to lead Democrats as House speaker come January, calls impeachment a “divisive activity” that needs to be approached with bipartisanship. “If the case if there, then that should be self-evident to Democrats and Republicans,” she said.

Those pressing for impeachment acknowledge they don't expect action on Day One of the new majority, but they do want to see Democrats start laying the groundwork for proceedings.

“We're for impeachment. We're not for get-sworn-in-on-Jan.-1-and-start-taking-votes,” said Kevin Mack, the lead strategist for billionaire Tom Steyer's Need to Impeach campaign. “Our argument is the Constitution outlines a process to remove a lawless president.”

In a new ad, Steyer says Democrats “just need the will” to act. He says he's calling on Americans to join the 6 million who have already signed on to his group to “give Congress the courage to act.”

“The American people are tired of being told to wait,” Mack said. “Our argument to Congress is you are a co-equal branch of government. It's time to do what is morally correct.”

Twice over the past two years since Trump was elected, Democrats have tried to force votes on impeachment proceedings, winning a high-water mark of more than 60 supporters, far from the 218 needed.

Republicans are counting on, and possibly even hoping for, impeachment fervor to overtake Democrats, leading them astray from campaign promises or dealmaking with Trump.

“We know the Democrats have a plan: They want to disrupt, they want to try to impeach,” said GOP Rep. Kevin McCarthy of California after winning the GOP's internal election to serve as minority leader in the new Congress. He warned that Democrats were laying the groundwork to impeach Trump.

Pelosi has made it clear the new majority will not engage in what she calls a “scattershot” approach to investigating the administration.

Instead, the incoming Democratic leaders of House committees will conduct oversight of the president's business and White House dealings. Democrats are also trying to ensure special counsel Robert Mueller completes his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election. They may try to add legislation to protect that probe to the must-pass spending bill in December to help fund the government. They want Mueller's findings made public.

“You have to be very reluctant to do an impeachment,” Rep. Jerry Nadler, D-N.Y., the incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said recently on ABC. Nadler, who served on the committee during President Bill Clinton's impeachment, cited “the trauma of an impeachment process.”

Democratic leaders also know that moving quickly on impeachment would not sit well with their newly elected members, who helped the party win a House majority in the recent midterms. Many come from swing districts where impeachment could prove unpopular.

“I didn't work 18 months listening to people in my district to get involved in a political back and forth for the next 18 months,” said Rep.-elect Elissa Slotkin of Michigan. “People want to talk about health care. It's not a coincidence that most of us who won in tough districts, we won because we talked about issues, not because we talked about internal Washington stuff.”

For now, outside liberal groups are largely standing by Pelosi's approach, putting their emphasis on pushing Democrats to chart a bold agenda on the domestic pocketbook concerns that won over voters.

Pelosi has some experience with impeachment, serving as a newer lawmaker when Republicans led impeachment proceedings against Clinton. When she became House speaker in 2007 she resisted pressure from her liberal flank to launch impeachment proceedings against President George W. Bush over the Iraq War.

Pelosi believes that if Democrats had tried to impeach Bush when she was speaker, voters may never have elected Barack Obama as president in 2008.

Politically, Democrats may be right. In 1974, Americans only came to agree that President Richard Nixon should be removed from office on the eve of his resignation, according to Pew research. Voters responded to Clinton's impeachment by electing more Democrats to the House.

“If we had gone down that path, I doubt we would have won the White House,” she said. “People have to see we're working there for them."

Associated Press

====== 49 ========

HILLARY CLINTON SAYS EU LEADERS NEED TO ‘SAY THEY CAN’T HELP REFUGEES’ IN ORDER TO QUELL POPULISM

Hillary Clinton has said that Europe must tackle the issue of immigration to help stem the rise of right-wing populists across the continent.

The Democrat former presidential candidate said it was the emotive issue that "lit the flame” behind such figures.

Though she commended German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the country’s efforts to take in Syrian refugees in particular, Ms Clinton called on Europe’s leaders to show they are “not going to be able to continue [to] provide refuge and support” for refugees.

The continent must “send a very clear message," the former US secretary of state told The Guardian, "because if we don’t deal with the migration issue it will continue to roil the body politic.”

At least one million people seeking refuge from conflict have made their way to Europe since 2015, with a spate of politicians running on populist, anti-immigrant platforms across Italy, Greece, Austria, and the UK appearing since that time.

Numbers of refugees and migrants have been dropping, however, as the EU has revised its asylum policies and countries bearing the brunt of the wave have used their coast guards and military to police sea channels.

Ms Clinton cautioned Europe’s leaders to take into account issues of race and identity and blamed her stunning 2016 presidential bid loss on the fact she did not.

At the same time, she accused Donald Trump of exploiting those issues for his gain in 2016 and now in office.

She said “the use of immigrants as a political device and as a symbol of government gone wrong, of attacks on one’s heritage, one’s identity, one’s national unity has been very much exploited by the current administration here”.

“There are solutions to migration that do not require clamping down on the press, on your political opponents and trying to suborn the judiciary, or seeking financial and political help from Russia to support your political parties and movements,” she noted.

Mr Trump had an unprecedented run of “Make America Great Again” campaign rallies across the country ahead of the 2018 midterms in which he repeatedly characterised a caravan of migrants moving towards the US-Mexico border as “criminals” and “gangs...with unknown Middle Easterners” in their midst.

He committed several thousand US troops to the border as well, saying the military would use force against those attempting to enter the country illegally, despite US law requiring entry in order to apply for asylum.

Many of the estimated 7,000 migrants still making their way from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador through Mexico are fleeing rampant gang violence in their countries and may apply for the protected status once they reach the US.

Ms Clinton also said Brexit was “largely about immigration”.

She noted the rise of right-wing populists has been occurring to meet “a psychological as much as political yearning to be told what to do, and where to go, and how to live and have their press basically stifled and so be given one version of reality”.

Ms Clinton said “maybe people are just tired of” the American system of holding “that much responsibility and freedom” as a voter.

“I don’t know why at this moment that is so attractive to people, but it’s a serious threat to our freedom and our democratic institutions, and it goes very deep and very far and we’ve got to do a better job of shining a light on it and trying to combat it,” she said but did not appear to offer a solution on how exactly to do that.

Ms Clinton has not announced another run for the presidency in 2020, but she has formed an exploratory committee and is strongly considering the possibility.

====== 50 ========

WHITE MEN AND REPUBLICANS ARE THE ONLY AMERICANS WHO THINK TRUMP IS HANDLING RACE RELATIONS WELL

A new poll reveals the majority of Americans are in agreement in their disapproval surrounding Donald Trump's handling of race relations, except for two key demographics: Republican voters and white men.

Nearly 60 per cent of those surveyed said they did not approve of the president’s handling of race relations, with stark comparisons between Republicans and Democrats on the issue.

While 76 per cent of Republicans said they supported Mr Trump when it comes to race relations, just four per cent of Democrats agreed. More than 90 per cent of black people disapproved of the president on race relations, along with 82 per cent of Hispanics and 93 per cent of Democrats.

The only majorities of Americans who approve of Mr Trump’s handling of race relations are Republicans and white men — 50 per cent of which approved of the president on the issue across party affiliations.

Americans have remained largely consistent in their disapproval of the president on the issue throughout his tenure in the Oval Office, with his highest level of disapproval — 63 per cent — reported shortly after the deadly white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, North Carolina in August of last year.

The new Quinnipiac poll — one of the first of its kind since the 2018 midterms — also showed a majority (53 per cent) of Americans approve of Mr Trump’s handling of the economy.

However, the poll appeared to be troubling for the president, as the majority of Americans disapproved of Mr Trump’s handling of foreign policy (53 per cent), immigration (56 per cent), gun policy (52 per cent) and the California wildfires (51 per cent).

The largest majority of Americans disapproved of his handling of race relations, according to the poll.

Mr Trump has stirred racial controversies throughout the entirety of his 2016 campaign and presidency, kicking off his bid for the White House by claiming Mexican migrants were “criminals” and repeatedly warning of a migrant caravan’s imminent arrival ahead of the midterm elections.

The president has since threatened to revoke the amendment-protected practice of birthright citizenship and began referring to himself as a “nationalist”.

====== 51 ========

ASSOCIATE OF TRUMP ALLY ROGER STONE SAYS HE IS IN PLEA DEAL TALKS WITH ROBERT MUELLER

An associate of long-time Donald Trump confidant Roger Stone has revealed he is in plea deal talks with Robert Mueller, after saying he expected to be “criminally charged”.

Jerome Corsi, 72, a conservative commentator, conspiracy theorist and one-time researcher for Mr Stone, confirmed he was in negotiations with the office of the special prosecutor, who is investigating alleged links between the Trump campaign and Russia as part of a wider investigation into apparent election meddling by Moscow.

“I’m going to be criminally charged,” Mr Corsi, who once worked for the Infowars, an outlet that promotes conspiracy theories, said this week during a YouTube livestream. “As of today, right now, I expect to be indicted.”

Mr Corsi said he had been cooperating with FBI agents for several months, after they served him with a subpoena two days before his 72nd birthday. “It was one of the most frightening experiences of my life," he said.

In recent months, a flurry of reports suggested Mr Mueller’s team was focusing on what Mr Corsi knew about Mr Stone’s possible links to WikiLeaks.

American intelligence agencies have claimed Russia was the source of hacked material released by WikiLeaks during the 2016 election that damaged Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Moscow has denied the allegations.

Mr Mueller’s office is trying to determine whether Mr Stone or other associates of President Donald Trump had advance knowledge of WikiLeaks’ plans.

On Friday, both the Associated Press and Reuters reported Mr Corsi had told them he was in plea deal negotiations with Mr Mueller, but declined to provide specifics. “There are plea negotiations going on. I can’t elaborate any more than that,” he told Reuters.

Mr Mueller has been seeking to ascertain the nature of any relationship Mr Stone, a veteran political operative, had developed with WikiLeaks. Earlier the month, he told the AP: “I had no advanced notice of the source or content or the exact timing of the release of the WikiLeaks disclosures.”

Both he and WikiLeaks have denied being in direct contact. But his comments appear to be add odds with remarks he made two years ago.

“I actually have communicated with Assange,” Mr Stone said in a speech in Florida on August 8 2016, referring to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. “I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation but there’s no telling what the October surprise may be.”

Then, on August 21 2016, Mr Stone tweeted: “Trust me, it will soon [be] Podesta’s time in the barrel.” :Less than two months after that, WikiLeaks began posting online emails stolen from the account of Hillary Clinton campaign chairman, John Podesta.

Mr Stone has also acknowledged exchanging direct messages on Twitter in August and September 2016 with Guccifer 2.0, who claimed to be a Romanian hacker. Mr Stone has said there is no proof the account was connected to the Russians.

However, according to criminal charges filed this summer by Mr Mueller against a dozen Russian military intelligence officers of conspiring to hack the Democrats during the 2016 presidential campaign, the handle was in reality operated a group of Moscow-based Russian operatives. The documents said the Russians used Guccifer 2.0’s Twitter account to send multiple messages to “a person who was in regular contact with senior members” of the Trump campaign.

Meanwhile, the Washington Post recently reported that last month, Randy Credico, a onetime Stone friend, told the grand jury that the Trump loyalist confided during the 2016 campaign that he had a secret back channel to WikiLeaks, according to a person familiar with the matter.

Mr Stone has since said his claim about information about Mr Podesta about to made public, was a reference to so-called “opposition research” that Mr Corsi prepared for him about the business dealings of Mr Podesta and his brother, Tony.

In September 2017, Mr Stone appeared before the House of Representatives’ intelligence committee in a closed down session. He later told reporters he had refused to divulge the identity of the person who had been his intermediary with Wikileaks.

“I expressed my view that I’m aware of no evidence whatsoever of collusion by the Russian state or anyone in the Trump campaign or anyone associated with Donald Trump,” Mr Stone said.

On Friday, in a statement provided to The Independent by his lawyer, Grant Smith, Mr Stone said: “As one can see from his recent videos and his recent interviews my friend Dr Corsi has been under a tremendous amount of pressure and it is beginning to affect him profoundly.

“He has stated publicly that he is being asked over and over to say things he simply does not believe occurred. I am not aware of any plea talks involving Dr Corsi, he is an investigative journalist whose activities I would think would largely be covered under the first amendment.”

Last week, it emerged US prosecutors were also preparing to pursue a criminal case against Mr Assange, who has claimed asylum in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London since 2012.

Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel, declined to comment on the reported plea deal talks.

====== 52 ========

TRUMP ADMINISTRATION CALLS ON SUPREME COURT TO RULE ON TRANSGENDER MILITARY BAN

Donald Trump's administration has asked the Supreme Court to hear a challenge to the president's decision to ban transgender people from serving in the US military, in an attempt to bypass federal appeals courts.

Attorneys for the federal government asked the court to fast-track cases on the issue after lower courts had blocked the administration from implementing the policy the president signed in March. That ban adopted recommendations from US Defence Secretary James Mattis, who said “transgender persons who require or have undergone gender transition” were no longer permitted to serve.

The move also arrived as a three-judge panel on the Ninth US Circuit Court of Appeals was still reviewing one of the cases, hearing arguments as recently as last month. In its request, the Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to review preliminary district court rulings before the Ninth Circuit is provided its opportunity to rule on the case.

“The administration is in a rush because they know that every day that transgender people continue to enlist and serve with distinction is another day that the courts and the public see this irrational policy for what it is,” Sarah McBride, national press secretary for the Human Rights Campaign, said in a statement to The Independent. “There is simply no reason to circumvent the traditional judicial process in pursuit of banning qualified, patriotic Americans from serving their country.”

Mr Trump has continued to target the transgender community since assuming the Oval Office, signing the latest implementation of his ban in the military after previous versions were blocked by the courts. His administration has also reportedly considered erasing all civil rights protections that have been afforded to transgender people by requiring all US citizens to legally identify with the gender listed on their birth certificate.

The Trump administration previously said it would ask the Supreme Court to weigh in on the president’s demands if the Ninth Circuit Court had not ruled on the case by Friday.

But despite the administration calling on the high court to intervene on the issue, oral arguments for Doe v Trump are still currently scheduled to take place in the DC Circuit Court of Appeals next month.

The National Centre for Lesbian Rights (NCLR) and GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), who were the first to challenge the ban and currently represent plaintiffs in two of the three cases, refuted the administration’s requests.

“There is no urgency here and no reason for the Court to weigh in at this juncture,” said Jennifer Levi, transgender rights project director for GLAD. “The injunctions preserve the status quo of the open service policy that was thoroughly vetted by the military itself and has been in place now for more than two years. This is simply one more attempt by a reckless Trump administration to push through a discriminatory policy. The policy flies in the face of military research and dozens of top military experts.”

Shannon Minter, legal director for NCLR, also warned against Mr Trump’s ban on transgender military members, saying the move “would upend thousands of lives and weaken our Armed Forces.”

“The great majority of people in this country recognise that transgender people who can meet the same standards as others should have an equal opportunity to serve,” the director said.

====== 53 ========

MAJOR GOVERNMENT CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT CONTRADICTS TRUMP AND WARNS OF DEVASTATING ECONOMIC AND HEALTH IMPACT

The US will face devastating economic and health impacts from climate change by the end of the century, a new federal report has warned.

National Climate Assessment outlines the projected impact of global warming in every corner of US society, in a dire warning that is at odds with Donald Trump and his administration’s pro-fossil-fuels agenda.

“With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century – more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many US states,” the report said.

The report, released nearly a month early by a team of 13 federal agencies, called the US Global Change Research Programme, said there is “no convincing alternative explanation” for climate change besides “human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases”.

The report runs counter to statements frequently made by Mr Trump, who has claimed global warming is a hoax. The president once again tweeted on Wednesday, “Whatever happened to Global Warming?” as temperatures were set to reach record lows on Thanksgiving.

Meanwhile, his administration released the report – the second of two volumes and the fourth National Climate Assessment in history – on Friday during the extended Thanksgiving holiday weekend, leaving some to question whether the aim was to minimise its public impact.

The White House dismissed the report as inaccurate, despite it supplementing a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming and warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.

White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said the new report was “largely based on the most extreme scenario, which contradicts long-established trends by assuming that ... There would be limited technology and innovation, and a rapidly expanding population.”

Altogether, gross domestic product could be slashed by 10 per cent by 2100, losses twice the size of that which occurred during the Great Recession.

The poorest communities nationwide would be among the most disproportionately impacted by global warming, the report indicated, as droughts, flooding and increasingly powerful storms begin regularly plaguing the country.

“Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today,” the report said, making clear that projections could change, but only if greenhouse emissions are sharply curbed.

Mr Trump’s administration has been rolling back Obama-era environmental and climate protections to maximise production of domestic fossil fuels, including crude oil, already the highest in the world, above Saudi Arabia and Russia.

Experts told the New York Times the president’s political critics and climate activists could use the major report to battle Mr Trump’s environmental policies.

“This report will weaken the Trump administration’s legal case for undoing climate change regulations, and it strengthens the hands of those who go to court to fight them,” Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton, said.

The dire impacts of climate change could cost the US hundreds of billions of dollars annually, the report said, threatening agriculture production for corn and soybean farms, two major US industries.

The changing climate will also cost fishers nearly $230m by the end of the century as ocean acidification increasingly develops across the nation’s coastlines.

Global warming could greatly increase the spread of disease and increase mental health issues, as well as a sharp decrease in air quality across the country.

Water supplies and damage to infrastructure would be likely under even some of the best case examples, in which the temperature would still continue to rise.

In a statement, Brenda Ekwurzel, director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the authors behind the report, stressed the need for the US government to respond to the report with action.

“This report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. It’s happening right now in every part of the country,” she said.

The fourth National Climate Assessment supported previous research conducted by government analysts, which also showed extreme adverse impacts on the economy and community health due to climate change.

Last year, Mr Trump announced the US was withdrawing from the 2015 Paris Climate Accord, claiming the environmental benefits did not outweigh the potential damage the agreement would have on the US economy.

Climate change is likely to increase all Americans’ exposure to food borne and waterborne diseases, as well as mosquito and tick-borne diseases like the Zika virus, dengue, and cases of West Nile, which could double in levels by 2050, according to the report.

The impact of increasing temperatures is also expected to cause a surge in the rate of premature deaths to 2,000 annually by 2090.

Meanwhile, none of the countries included in the G20 have met their climate targets, according to research, despite the US being among the only nations to withdraw its support from the Paris Accord.

The changing climate could pose enormous consequences when it comes to wildfire seasons – and may have already proven how dire those consequences can be.

California, which saw the deadliest and most destructive fire in history this month, could face blazes up to six times larger in size and scope by 2050, along with other regions across the US.

The report concludes “that the evidence of human-caused climate change is overwhelming and continues to strengthen, that the impacts of climate change are intensifying across the country, and that climate-related threats to Americans’ physical, social, and economic well-being are rising”.

It followed the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s latest report published in October, which indicated the world may have just a few decades left to prevent the depletion of virtually all coral reefs, and to keep temperatures from warming more than 2C, along with other detrimental consequences.

====== 54 ========

KHASHOGGI MURDER: TURKEY ACCUSES TRUMP OF TURNING A 'BLIND EYE' TO JOURNALIST'S KILLING

Turkey has accused Donald Trump of turning a “blind eye” to the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Saudi Arabia’s consulate in Istanbul.

Mevlut Cavusoglu, the Turkish foreign minister, called for an international investigation into the killing, describing the EU’s response so far as no more than “cosmetic”.

It comes after the US president vowed to remain a “steadfast partner” of the Saudis despite admitting the kingdom’s de facto ruler Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman may have known about the murder plot.

In an interview with CNN Turk, Mr Cavusoglu said: “Trump’s statements amount to him saying ‘I’ll turn a blind eye no matter what.’”

He added: “Money isn’t everything. We must not move away from human values.”

The CIA is said to be in possession of a recording in which the crown prince is heard instructing his brother in a phone call to “silence Jamal Khashoggi as soon as possible”.

Mr Cavusoglu said the US had not informed Turkey of the recording, described as a “smoking gun” by Hurriyet Daily News, which reported its existence. The newspaper claimed the intelligence agency had obtained audio of the conversation through wiretapping.

The Saudi regime has denied ordering Khashoggi’s murder and has blamed his death on a rogue operation.

The CIA has briefed Mr Trump on its belief that the crown prince ordered the killing, but Mr Trump claimed “they had nothing definitive”.

On Thursday, he said: “They did not come to a conclusion. They have feelings, certain ways, but I have the report. They have not concluded. Nobody’s concluded. I don’t know if anyone could conclude that the crown prince did it.”

Earlier this week, the president conceded “it could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event”.

“Maybe he did and maybe he didn’t,” he said, adding that the Saudis were “a great ally”.

“The fact is … they create tremendous wealth, really tremendous jobs in their purchases and very importantly, they keep the oil price down,” said Mr Trump.

Turkish officials have described his remarks as “comic”.

Numan Kurtulmus, deputy chair of president Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s AK Party, said: “It is not possible for an intelligence agency such as the CIA, which even knows the colour of the fur on the cat walking around the Saudi consulate’s garden ... to not know who gave this order. This is not credible either for US public opinion or the world public opinion.”

Turkey has repeatedly said an order to kill Khashoggi came from the “highest levels” of the Saudi government, although it has not directly accused the crown prince.

The crown prince has requested to meet Mr Erdogan on the sidelines of the upcoming G20 summit in Argentina, Mr Cavusoglu said.

The foreign minister added he saw no “obstacle” for a meeting between the two but added the Turkish president would make the final decision over whether to hold the talks.

It would be the first official contact between the crown prince and Mr Erdogan, who has kept international pressure mounting on Saudi Arabia over the killing, since Khashoggi’s death.

After offering several contradictory explanations, Riyadh said last week that Khashoggi had been murdered and his body dismembered when “negotiations” to persuade him to return to Saudi Arabia failed.

The White House has imposed penalties on 17 individuals who the Saudis say were involved, but Mr Trump has come under pressure from congress to impose harsher sanctions on the regime.

====== 55 ========

TRUMP WARNS HE COULD ‘CLOSE WHOLE MEXICO BORDER’ DUE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

Donald Trump has threatened to close the “whole border” with Mexico if illegal immigration gets “uncontrollable”.

“If we find that it gets to a level where we’re going to lose control or people are going to start getting hurt, we will close entry into the country for a period of time until we can get it under control,” Mr Trump said after a Thanksgiving phone call with the US military at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.

“We’re either going to have a border or we’re not,” the president said after stationing nearly 6,000 US troops on the border to combat migrants crossing the border without proper documentation.

Mr Trump has been railing against a caravan of approximately 7,000 people slowly making their way towards the US-Mexico border as they flee rampant gang violence and poverty in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.

While answering questions from journalists, Mr Trump claimed he had already closed the border before and would do so again - even if meant Mexico could not sell automobiles to American customers.

The US recently signed a new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada, known as the USMCA, to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) and included provisions about automobile sales, but the president did not address in that moment.

“Two days ago, we closed the border. We actually just closed it. We said, ‘Nobody’s coming in.’ Because it’s out of control,” the president said.

Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said a few traffic lanes in the port of San Ysidro near San Diego, California, had been shut down because a group of migrants “were planning to rush the border”.

The lanes were, however, opened again later that day.

Mr Trump said on Thanksgiving: "You're dealing with a minimum of 500 serious criminals [among the migrants], so I'm not going to let the military be taken of advantage of. I have no choice. Do I want that to happen? Absolutely not. You're dealing with rough people.”

No evidence has been made public that any of the migrants attempting to enter the US are actually criminals.

Some of these migrants are seeking asylum in the US and, per US law, must set foot on US soil in order to do so.

Mr Trump also took the opportunity at Mar-a-Lago to continue his Twitter rant about the federal appeals court in San Francisco, which ruled against his asylum policy and said the administration must allow all those seeking the protected status to apply regardless of where they came from or how they entered the country.

The court in question has blocked a number of border and immigration orders from Mr Trump during his presidency and the president had previously tweeted that "judges must not legislate security ...They nothing about it and are making our country unsafe." He said that such decisions would only lead to "bedlam, chaos, injury and death".

He later called the ninth circuit court "a big thorn in our side" and said "judges or Congress need to do something to stop it".

====== 56 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: ANTHONY JOSHUA REVEALS WHY HE 'NEEDS' WILDER TO RETAIN WBC BELT AT STAPLES CENTRE

Less than a week until Deontay Wilder defends his WBC title against Tyson Fury at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles, heavyweight rival and unified champion Anthony Joshua has explained why he ‘needs’ the American to walk away from the arena with the strap wrapped tightly around his waist.

Wilder is the odds-on favourite to beat Fury on 1 December and will be looking to then unify the division in a super-fight against Joshua on 13 April, but Fury, who has had every belt at heavyweight except the one he fights for next weekend, has other ideas and will be looking to put himself at the top of Joshua’s wishlist come next year.

Joshua has completed two successful title defences in 2018, beating New Zealander Joseph Parker in his first ever full 12-round fight before returning to his brutal style of boxing with a seventh-round knockout of Alexander Povetkin. Despite Wilder’s claim that whoever wins between he and Fury would become the ‘best fighter’ in the heavyweight division, Joshua believes that his potential bout against the American ‘has to happen’.

“I need Wilder to win, it gives me more of an opportunity to fight him,” Joshua said.

“As a champion, if he retains his belt, that’s the fight people have been yearning for, so hopefully 2019 is going to be a big year for me. I think this fight will happen. It has to for the love of the sport, especially where we are at in our careers.”

Joshua will not be in LA to watch the Fury-Wilder fight due to work commitments with a sponsor but revealed that should his fight against Wilder happen, it would be a two-fight deal, with the first happening in the UK.

“The Wilder fight has to happen. We’re both champions, fans are demanding it. It’ll be a double-sided fight. For me, the first one will take place in London at Wembley.”

Should Joshua secure a two-fight deal to fight Wilder and manage to overcome his rival in both fights, the 29-year-old is hoping to secure contests against Oleksandr Usyk – who beat Tony Bellew in devastating fashion to retain his undisputed cruiserweight crown, followed by fights against Fury and local rival Dillian Whyte.

“If I was the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, I would want to fight Usyk because he is the undisputed cruiserweight champion.

“It would be a legacy fight, then Fury, then Dillian.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 57 ========

BOXING TONIGHT: KAL YAFAI DEFENDS HIS WORLD TITLE AGAINST ISRAEL GONZALEZ – BUT WILL ANYBODY BE WATCHING?

Boxing deserves its reputation as one of the most entertaining and popular sports in the world, but a lot of the appeal is based on the atmosphere.

Packed arenas full of screaming fans adds an incredible amount of ambience and importance to a boxing event, for both the fighters and the audience. Without the roars and the gasps, and with only the thud of fist on face, the stark reality of the sport comes to the fore.

Boxing is violent, it’s dangerous and clinical, which when presented with crowd-pleasing music and flashing lights can turn into a spectacle. Yet tonight’s main boxing card in Monaco will not feature atmosphere or raucousness, but instead a bunch of semi-bored suits waiting for the action to finish so they can go and spend thousands on the roulette table.

So, should you watch Kal Yafai defend his super flyweight world championship tonight on Sky Sports? For once, the answer is not really. Not only will the crowd make you fall asleep faster than a Brexit documentary, but the overall quality of the bouts on offer are poor and not worth watching.

It should all be so much better. Yafai is an undefeated world champion with excellent skills, an Olympic pedigree and a likeable personality. He became WBA Champion in December 2016 after outpointing Luis Concepcion in Manchester and has since defended his title three times to increasingly less attention.

Super flyweight is not the most glamorous division in boxing, yet there are a number of fine talents in the rankings. So why is Yafai fighting Israel Gonzalez tonight, instead of someone of note? 23-2 as a professional, Gonzales has never beaten a fighter of note, with his last three victories coming against opponents with a combined record of 13 wins and 19 losses.

Those numbers would barely be enough for a shot at a Southern Area title, let alone a world championship bout. Gonzalez’s weaknesses were exposed Sandwiched in a stoppage loss to Jerwin Ancajas where he lost every round before being stopped in the tenth. In this era of boxing, it’s not enough for boxing promoters to big up their fighters while consistently serving them dross opponents.

Yafai is an unheralded champion for a reason, because he has not entertained or challenged himself in the ring. Tonight’s fight is not going to change that, so why bother watching? It’s not as if the people inside the venue will care, so why should you? Unless you’re a heavy-hitting beast or a dynamic supremo, it’s unlikely fans will clamour to watch you fight unless you give them a reason to care.

Not every fighter can be a charismatic marvel, but the likes of Dave Allen have achieved significant support just by being a decent guy who chats to people. When you have the skills that Yafai does, it’s just not good enough to proclaim yourself a champion without acting like one. Much of the blame should go to his promoter, but some needs to go to the fighter too.

A weird card in Monaco also features 39-year-old cruiserweight Denis Lebedev who fights undefeated American Mike Wilson. With a combined age of 74, don’t expect too much agility on show, nor fireworks. Lebedev has struggled to impress in recent years, while Wilson has stopped just one of his last six opponents, who have mainly consisted of American journeymen.

British light heavyweight Frank Buglioni also features on the undercard, as he continues his comeback after being knocked out in a round by Callum Johnson earlier this year. Buglioni will be fighting 13-0 Chinese star Fanlong Meng, who achieved success in the amateurs before turning professional in 2015.

This is Meng’s first legitimate step-up in the paid ranks, and he will come against a determined Buglioni who has tremendous amounts of heart and grit, as well as underrated power. The Londoner will know this could be his last chance to create a stir above domestic level and will be eager to impress in Monaco.

There aren’t many Saturday evenings until Christmas, and with plenty of mouthwatering fights to come before December 25th, do yourself a favour and switch off from this one tonight.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 58 ========

JOSH WARRINGTON VS CARL FRAMPTON: WHEN IS IT, FIGHT DATE, HOW TO GET TICKETS, UNDERCARD, WHERE TO WATCH, PREDICTION, ODDS AND MORE

Josh Warrington makes the first defence of his IBF featherweight title when he comes up against Northern Ireland's Carl Frampton at the Manchester Arena on December 22.

Immediately after Frampton's ninth-round stoppage victory over Luke Jackson, Frank Warren confirmed that Warrington would make the first defence of his title against the former two-weight world champion, who got into the ring and had a friendly face off with his upcoming opponent.

Warrington won the IBF title when he beat Lee Selby in a split decision in his home city of Leeds to remain unbeaten - his biggest and best victory to date in what was a fight of the year contender.

Both men have been amicable and friendly in the build-up to the event, but come fight night that will go completely out the window. Frampton is the slight favourite to leave Manchester with the belt wrapped around his waist, but Warrington has a habit of defying the odds. Here's everything you need to know about the blockbuster showdown.

When and where is the fight?

The bout will take place on December 22nd at the Manchester Arena, it was initially set to take place in a stadium but concerns over dates and mandatory challengers meant Warren settled with selecting an arena.

Ring walks will take place around 10pm but as always is the way with boxing, that is subject to change.

Where can I watch it and are tickets still available?

It will be shown live on BT Sport Box Office, the broadcaster's second pay-per-view event of December following on from Deontay Wilder's world heavyweight title defence against Tyson Fury.

The cost of the box office event has yet to be announced but will likely be £19.95.

Tickets for the fight are still available and can be bought on Ticketmaster, with prices starting from £47 and going all the way up to £600 for the seats closer to the ring.

Are any belts at stake?

Yes indeed. The IBF featherweight title, which Warrington will defend after winning it from Lee Selby earlier this year. He'll be making his first defence of the title when he comes up against Frampton.

What are their records?

Warrington comes into the fight as the champion and the undefeated man, with 27 fights, 27 victories with just six by way of knockout. It took the Leeds fighter until his 16th bout to win a fight inside the distance, with a 12th round TKO victory over Samir Mouneimne.

Frampton has also had 27 fights in his professional boxing career, with 26 victories, 15 knockouts and just one defeat to Mexico's Leo Santa Cruz, where he lost his WBA (Super) featherweight title to the man he beat for it half a year prior. Significant victories over Nonito Donaire and Jackson put him in prime position to face Warrington.

What have they been saying?

Warrington on becoming the best: "I'm a world champion, I believe I'm the best, I want to prove I'm the best.

"I'm one fight away really from putting myself as a world name in boxing. Beating Carl puts me up there.

"I want to prove I didn't just do it as a one-off fluke or it wasn't just handed to me, I beat Lee Selby and now I'm doing Carl Frampton.

"It doesn't happen like that normally and I want to be different. Normal fighters do have a big fight, like win a world title and then a steady defence, to get that notch under their belt, but naff that!"

Frampton on Warrington's 'arrogance': "Josh Warrington is doing his best not to let the mask slip but his arrogance is starting to show as we get closer to our fight on December 22 at the Manchester Arena.

"We had a media day at Ricky Hatton’s gym and it was starting to show with his stupid videos on Twitter and his comments about me having seen better days.

"I have been respectful to him from the start but right from our first press conference I have got this feeling that he is trying his best to hold back his natural arrogance and he’s finding it harder and harder to keep it at bay.

"Then there’s all this talk about him being so tough with such a big engine like he’s the reincarnation of Jake LaMotta.

"Give it a rest Josh, just wind your neck in because you’re just setting yourself up for a big fall.

"It’s funny, he’s all loud and brash except when I’m within earshot and then he whispers to the person who’s interviewing him — I don’t know where his head is at but I know I’m just focused on my job and peaking on December 22."

What is the full fight schedule?

Billed as Warren's 'Christmas cracker', the undercard is every bit worth its title.

Mark Heffron vs Liam Williams

Martin Murray vs Hassan N'Dam

Nathan Gorman vs Alex Leapai

Tommy Fury (Tyson's brother) vs TBC

Michael Conlan vs Jason Cunningham

What are the odds?

Warrington to win: 7/4

Frampton to win: 4/9

Draw: 25/1

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 59 ========

JOSH WARRINGTON VS CARL FRAMPTON: ENGLISHMAN SETS SIGHTS ON UNIFICATION FIGHTS IN LAS VEGAS

Josh Warrington is eyeing unification bouts in Las Vegas but first intends to prove he belongs at the elite level by defeating Lee Selby and Carl Frampton in the same year.

Warrington surprised the vast majority when he bullied and harried betting favourite Selby en route to a split decision victory in his home city of Leeds in May.

The 28-year-old is once again the underdog ahead of the first defence of his IBF featherweight title against Northern Ireland's Frampton in a blockbuster domestic showdown at the Manchester Arena on December 22.

Beating Selby and Frampton within months of each other would be an emphatic statement from Warrington, who says: "I'm a world champion, I believe I'm the best, I want to prove I'm the best.

"I'm one fight away really from putting myself as a world name in boxing. Beating Carl puts me up there.

"I want to prove I didn't just do it as a one-off fluke or it wasn't just handed to me, I beat Lee Selby and now I'm doing Carl Frampton.

"It doesn't happen like that normally and I want to be different. Normal fighters do have a big fight, like win a world title and then a steady defence, to get that notch under their belt, but naff that!"

Leeds fan Warrington achieved a lifelong ambition when he fought at Elland Road against Selby, but he is eager to branch out to the United States in an effort to add further world titles to his collection.

The prospect of taking his vast number of followers to Las Vegas for a showdown with either WBC titlist Gary Russell Jr, WBA beltholder Leo Santa Cruz or WBO champion Oscar Valdez is proving alluring.

It is Valdez, like Warrington a relentless pressure fighter, who seems to appeal most to the Yorkshireman.

He added: "If I had the choice to go back to Elland Road or Stateside, I'd probably choose Stateside because Elland Road was its own little chapter.

"Since beating Selby people have spoken about 'are we going to Vegas' or 'are you going to take us to Vegas?'

"I want to - after big Carl - go on and fight Oscar Valdez. I believe when you get to this stage, you want the big fights when you've got momentum and confidence going with you.

"I've got in my head I want to go and unify the division. Those things motivate me and it's what I'm in the sport for.

"This IBF belt is lovely but it needs a partner, it needs a companion on the mantelpiece."

Warrington was speaking ahead of the release of a feature-length documentary chronicling his ups and downs over the past couple of years, culminating in his win over Selby.

Victory over the Welshman has catapulted Warrington to fame and an increased media profile, which has not gone unnoticed by his wife Natasha.

Warrington added: "The missus said to me five or six weeks after the fight had passed 'when is this going to calm down?' I said 'Tash, as long as I have this belt it's not going to, it's just going to get busier'."

Josh Warrington: Fighting For A City is on DVD and digital download from 26 November

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 60 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: WHEN IS IT, FIGHT DATE, UNDERCARD, WHERE TO WATCH, PREDICTION, ODDS AND MORE

Tyson Fury faces Deontay Wilder for the WBC world heavyweight title in Los Angeles on December 1.

The pair meet after first clashing outside the ring in 2013, where Wilder knocked Audley Harrison out in Sheffield before the heavyweight pair said they would take each other on in a fight in the future.

Fury will look to claim the one major title that has evaded his career thus far, the WBC title, in what would be his greatest win since his Düsseldorf fight of the year against Wladimir Klitschko in which he outpointed the then dominant champion before taking a break and facing suspension from the sport.

Wilder is the odds on favourite to win the fight and retain his title to potentially set up an April bout with Anthony Joshua – but Fury has other ideas and is hoping to cause a shock. Here’s everything you need to know.

When and where is the fight?

The fight takes place on 1st December and will be at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles, a venue neither fighter has fought at before.

You can expect the ring walks to take place around 4am, but as ever with boxing that is subject to change depending on how the undercard goes.

Where can I watch it and how much are tickets?

The fight will be shown live on BT Sport Box Office, and it'll be the biggest event the broadcaster has shown since introducing boxing to its channels.

Its cost hasn't yet been announced but is expected to be around the £19.95 mark - although some early indications say it could also be £30.

Ticket prices begin at $170 and reach as high as $2,900. So if you want to see this one, you're going to have to cough up.

What’s at stake?

The only major belt in professional boxing that has evaded Tyson Fury. The WBC world heavyweight title, which has been in Wilder's hands for little under four years, when he beat Bermane Stiverne on points to take the strap home.

What are their records?

Neither man has lost a single professional fight. Combined, the two are 67-0.

Wilder's record stands at 40 fights, 40 victories with 39 by way of knockout. He has knocked out every single man he's been in the ring with, only going the distance once in his career (against Stiverne who he later made light work of in just one round).

The American has been mocked for the level of opponent that he's faced throughout his career but a devastating knockout win over Luis Ortiz in March helped put such criticism to bed.

Fury is two fights into his comeback after spending two-and-a-half years out of the ring, and many have said that his fight against Wilder is coming too early into the return after easy wins over Albanian Sefer Seferi and Francesco Pianeta.

The Gypsy King has a perfect record of 27 fights, 27 victories with 19 inside the distance. In 2015 he won the unified WBA (Super), IBF, WBO, IBO, The Ring magazine and lineal heavyweight titles, after beating long-reigning world champion Wladimir Klitschko.

If he manages to beat Wilder in December, he will have caused arguably the two biggest upsets in boxing history.

What have they been saying?

Fury on Wilder's ring resume: "Stiverne, a small heavyweight who was old and finished. Johann Duhaupas, a Frenchman that has no ability but tries hard. Wilder didn’t hurt him once in the fight.

“Eric Molina, a school teacher who got lucky - took him nine rounds to get rid of him. Artur Szpilka, who’s lost all his fights by knockout even up until today; a bit of movement and he gave him problems.

“Gerald Washington, a football player with a bit of a jab; he gave him problems for five rounds until he landed - not a boxer though.

“Then there was [Luis] Ortiz who forgetting his age, was a good man, but we know father time catches up with everybody.”

Wilder on his legacy: “Forget the money. I'm rich and I'm lucky but that's because I have things that money can't buy: love, peace, happiness.

“I was always meant to be like this. I was prepared for this moment. I just think this is part of the process – it's just the beginning of what I'm going to do.

“It's just a gathering of the people. It's crazy. People really listen. I want men to see that you don't have to be tough all the time. You don't have to have this persona. You can show a sensitive side. It's ok to say you love someone. I show a sensitive, caring side. I show you can be silly or goofy and still do what you want to do. People see that.

“I would hate to be on the outside of boxing, running round like I do now, chanting, saying I'm the baddest man on the planet. I don't want to do that. That's not me, that's not Deontay Wilder's personality. Deontay's personality just likes to be free, we have fun. I'm at peace.”

What is the full fight schedule?

Jarrett Hurd vs Jason Wellborn

Luis Ortiz vs Travis Kauffman

Joe Joyce vs Joe Hanks

Mark Anthony Barriga vs Carlos Licona

Chris Arreola vs Maurenzo Smith

Isaac Lowe vs TBC

Anthony Yarde vs TBC

Marsellos Wilder vs TBC

Jesse Rodriguez vs Alex Aragon

What are the odds?

Wilder to win: 4/6

Fury to win: 11/8

Draw: 25/1

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 61 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: ANTHONY JOSHUA WILL NOT BE ATTENDING FIGHT NIGHT IN LOS ANGELES

Anthony Joshua will not be ringside for Tyson Fury’s heavyweight world title fight against Deontay Wilder.

Fury faces the American WBC champion at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles next Saturday in a much anticipated showdown, with the winner expected to face Anthony Joshua in what would be a history-making, career-defining unification fight.

Joshua had been expected to attend the event in order to stoke the fires of a potential Wembley bout, and tweeted on Wednesday: “Unified the heavyweight division twice in 22 fights. Watch me become undisputed heavyweight champion in 2019.”

However, he has decided instead to honour a prearranged day working for a sponsor.

Joshua has a date booked at Wembley for 13 April, although the possibility of facing the winner of Fury vs Wilder is clouded by a rematch clause in their fight contract. Another possible opponent is the Briton Dillian Whyte, who Joshua beat in January 2016.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 62 ========

DILLIAN WHYTE VS DERECK CHISORA: WHEN IS IT, FIGHT DATE, UNDERCARD, WHERE TO WATCH, PREDICTION, ODDS AND MORE

Just 30 days remain until Dillian Whyte and Dereck Chisora meet for their hotly anticipated rematch at the O2 on 22 December on Sky Sports Box Office.

Whyte edged the pair’s first grudge match in December 2016 by razor-tight split decision with many protesting that Chisora was the rightful victor.

Eddie Hearn was hoping to stage the rematch in 2017 but Chisora succumbed to a drab points defeat to Agit Kabayel for the European Title in Monaco which scuppered those plans.

Whyte meanwhile embarked on a strong run of form and has surged up the heavyweight rankings with successive wins against Robert Helenius, Lucas Browne and a pay-per-view debut victory against Joseph Parker last March.

However, Chisora's stunning knockout of Carlos Takam on the undercard of Anthony Joshua vs Alexander Povetkin in September sparked negotiations once again with an agreement eventually found after David Haye became a late addition into Chisora’s camp.

Here’s everything you need to know:

When and where is the fight taking place?

The bout will take place on 22 December at the O2 Arena in London with the fighters expecting to begin their ringwalks at around 22:00 UK time.

Where can I watch it and how much are tickets?

The event will be broadcast on Sky Sports Box Office and will cost £16.95. Tickets for the 02 are still available and start at £40.

What’s at stake?

The winner of the bout will put themselves in pole position to face Anthony Joshua in April.

What happened last time?

Whyte won the pair’s first bout via tight split-decision with the scorecards reading 115-113 115-114 114-115.

Who is on the undercard?

Charlie Edwards will challenge Nicaraguan Cristofer Rosales for the WBC World Flyweight Championship on the undercard. Rosales defended the title against Paddy Barnes in Belfast last August while it will be Edwards' second challenge for world honours having come up short against John Riel Casemiro in 2016.

David Price returns after suffering defeat to Sergey Kuzmin on the undercard of Joshua-Povetkin to face fellow Brit Tom Little in another domestic heavyweight bout and Ryan Walsh will defend his British Featherweight Title against Reece Bellotti.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 63 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: AMERICAN SAYS HE HAS SPIES IN BRIT'S TRAINING CAMP

Deontay Wilder has claimed he has "eyes and ears everywhere" and suggests he knows all about Tyson Fury's behind-closed-doors preparations for their WBC title fight next month.

The two meet in Los Angeles on December 1 in a long-awaited clash of undefeated fighters. Both have been in training camps for the last few months with the Brit heading to Big Bear California to prepare at altitude.

Wilder, who claims to have the inside track on Fury's progress, is dismissive of those tactics and insists the change in methods is indicative of a man running scared.

“It’s funny, everything he has done or is doing, I have known about – he is in my country,” said Wilder. “I have eyes and ears everywhere. I have friends all over the world and when people love you, they love you and they go all the way for you.

“Once you connect with one person, they help you connect with others… then you just have to wait for a phone call.”

Fury's time spent in the US has seen him train at over 7,000ft above sea level, but Wilder still doesn't believe his opponent has the fitness required to beat him.

“He could not handle the heat and the altitude – he was so high up over there that he could not breathe,” Wilder added. “I have trained in Colorado and it’s similar – you cannot breathe up there. I lived, ran and sparred up there and it was hard when you are not used to it.

“That is why he has had to come down to sea level to have the best chance in this fight. Just being up there for two weeks isn’t going to be enough time to prepare for me. Either you have stamina or you don’t.

“Most guys go to Big Bear to get their lungs to expand so that when they go back down to sea level they can breathe differently.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 64 ========

SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS RELEASE STAR LINEBACKER REUBEN FOSTER AFTER DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ARREST

The San Francisco 49ers have released 2017 first-round pick Reuben Foster after he was arrested at the team hotel on a domestic violence charge.

Foster was arrested in April on domestic violence charges that were eventually dropped but the 49ers' top brass including general manager John Lynch and head coach Kyle Shanahan warned that the team had a zero-tolerance policy on the issue. After the latest arrest, San Francisco have cut ties with the player.

Despite being considered one of the best players in the draft when he came out of college, Foster dropped to the end of the first round owing to character concerns and brushes with the law. Foster was sent home from the NFL Draft Scouting Combine after an altercation with medical personnel. He also failed a drug test at the same event.

Since turning pro, Foster has encountered several legal issues including possession of marijuana, domestic violence and weapon charges in 2018 alone.

An arrest report obtained by NFL.com from the Hillsborough County Sheriff's office stated Foster was booked into jail at 11:11 p.m. ET on a domestic violence charge stemming from an incident involving his on-off girlfriend.. Foster was arrested by local police at 9:10 p.m. at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Tampa where the team is staying ahead of their clash with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday evening.

The victim told police that during a verbal altercation with Foster, he smacked her phone out of her hand, pushed her in the chest and slapped her face with an open palm. Officers noted abrasions to the victim's face and collarbone.

Domestic violence has long been an issue among American football players, though teams are now adopting more hardline stances. It was only three years ago that the Dallas Cowboys gave Greg Hardy an $11m contract despite strangling his ex-girlfriend sufficiently that he left visible marks on her neck.

Super Bowl winner Ray Rice had his contract terminated by the Baltimore Ravens in 2014 after punching his girlfriend and leaving her unconscious in a casino elevator.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 65 ========

STEPH CURRY CAR ACCIDENT: NBA STAR EMERGES UNSCATHED FROM MULTIPLE-VEHICLE COLLISION AND TWEETS 'GOD IS GREAT ALL THE TIME'

Basketball star Steph Curry has escaped unhurt from a multiple-vehicle accident in California and thanked God for his good fortune.

The 30-year-old, who plays for the National Basketball League’s (NBL) Golden State Warriors, was driving his Porsche on State Route 24 in Oakland, when his car was hit by two other vehicle, in separate incidents.

The California Highway Patrol (CHP) said Curry’s black sports car was first struck by the driver of a Lexus, who lost control. Curry, who is currently off NBA duties because of a groin strain, stopped in the highway’s central divider to wait for officers, when another vehicle struck his car from behind.

“No injuries were reported or claimed in either traffic collision. No impairment was detected from any of the parties involved and no arrests were made,” the CHP wrote on its Facebook page, where it also posted a photograph of officers standing with Curry.

Dave Chappelle, Steph Curry & Drake FREAK OUT to Magician David Blaine

“Thankfully, everyone walked away uninjured due to everyone wearing their seatbelts. We would like to remind everyone to slow it during inclement weather.”

Reports said the Oakland had seen rain for much of Friday.

After the incident, which happened at around 9am, Curry, who plays guard for the Oakland-based team, tweeted: “Don’t need any reminders but All the time God is great and God is great all the time! Appreciate all the texts.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 66 ========

JASON BELL ON THE GAME OF THE SEASON, THE UNDER-THE-RADAR LA CHARGERS AND WHY THE NFL SHOW IS SO MUCH FUN

Ahead of last Monday’s record-breaking game between the Los Angeles Rams and the Kansas City Chiefs, it appeared that Jason Bell glimpsed into the future.

Asked what his favourite game of the season was, the former NFL cornerback remarked on the BBC’s NFL Show: “It’s the one coming up, the Rams against the Chiefs – that’s the one I want to see!”

His uncontainable excitement was justified. The Rams’ 54-51 victory was a spectacle of sparkling offensive play spearheaded by two exuberant quarterbacks in Jared Goff and Patrick Mahomes. It was the match of the year, and a clash which could be repeated come 3 February at Super Bowl 53 in Atlanta.

But despite his forward-thinking, Bell is a tad surprised at the fortunes of Andy Reid’s side so far this season.

“The Chiefs have surprised me because I knew Patrick Mahomes was going to be an elite quarterback, but I didn’t know he was going to be this dominant. You need young stars coming in and being explosive and just think what he'll be in ten years … it’s so great for football. It’s unreal and a great product.”

The term ‘product’ is one the 40-year-old emphasises continuously about the NFL, throughout this conversation in a quaint pub just off Trafalgar Square in London.

Talk of a potential London NFL franchise bringing the sport to this side of the Atlantic permanently hinges on whether the complete upheaval of one of 32 franchises would prove a long-term success, but Bell, who went to college at UCLA before turning pro in 2001, is unequivocally confident it can be a success due to the sell-out crowds for the International Series games.

“I think the NFL has spent so much time developing the product out here and gathering the fan base that they understand it would work. There’s one thing I understand about this fan base: they’re knowledgeable and loyal, and those are exactly the two things you want.

“But also I walk these streets, I’m on the tube, I’m on the bus, I’m walking around and you hear people engage with you about the sport and from year to year I’ve seen that increase. I hope it’s sooner rather than later.”

Bell, who played for the Dallas Cowboys, Houston Texans and New York Giants during his seven-year career, is on our screens every week as part of BBC’s NFL Show, alongside Osi Umenyiora and Mark Chapman.

The show has proved extremely popular among both knowledgeable fans and ‘rookies’ of the game, with the programme’s mix of light-heartedness and in-depth analysis striking exactly the right tone for the UK audience.

“Osi is my friend, so that natural chemistry you see is absolutely for real. We got really lucky with Mark – he’s super professional and knows exactly what he’s doing. But we’re just boys and it’s fun!”

The sheer enthusiasm with which Bell talks about anything NFL-related is immediately obvious.

His passion when talking about the locker-room is genuine, in response to a question originally posed about the effect Colin Kaepernick’s stand against racial injustice in America is having on the league.

“The beauty of the NFL is that you have a locker room full of people from all walks of life, and we have discussions about any political topic,” Bell explains. “That’s what the locker room is, and it’s a safe place for that. You’re able to have a discussion on anything and you might not see eye to eye, but you hear each other out.”

“I’m not sure what Colin wants to do. He has the skillset at quarterback, and we know you can play for a long time [in that position]. But I certainly don’t want to speak on his behalf.”

Bell, who retired in 2008 after career-ending back surgery, also speaks openly about the constant reformation the league goes through every season with regards to rules and player safety.

“So much has changed since I retired. The NFL competition committee does a great job, even though as a former defensive back I don't agree with a lot of them, especially when it comes to being able to hold receivers. But they see what makes the game great to consume, and there is so much more awareness towards player health and safety now.”

Quizzed further about the limitations the new ‘roughing the passer’ rule has for defensive players, he is dismissive. “The reason professional athletes are good is that they can adjust. Football is a game that if you can’t adjust to the rules, you just don't play, as other players will and that’s the beauty about being a professional.”

There are just over ten weeks to go until the Super Bowl, the phase of the season where every single match, available in the UK online via the NFL Game Pass, contributes towards deciding the play-off spots are decided and marquee players step up to the plate. So who is going under the radar in Bell’s opinion?

“The San Diego … look at that I almost said San Diego Chargers!” he says, such is their ability this season to do the unheralded work. “The Los Angeles Chargers, because they’re playing at a stadium that isn’t their new stadium so every game feels like an away game for them. If they get into the play-offs, that might make them dangerous.

“But who’s impressed me the most is Andrew Luck. If they [the Indianapolis Colts] had a better record, he’s a third-tier MVP candidate! Coming off that shoulder surgery … he’s playing phenomenal and doing a lot of things with that team I didn’t think could happen.”

The Colts – who have a 5-5 record and are second in the AFC South – host the Miami Dolphins on Sunday.

Sign up with NFL Game Pass to watch Thanksgiving Week action at a special price of £2.99 at www.nflgamepass.com or tune in to The NFL Show on Saturday night at 11:45pm on BBC One.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 67 ========

ZLATAN IBRAHIMOVIC MISSES HIS MANCHESTER UNITED TEAMMATES – WHO MADE HIM FEEL LIKE BENJAMIN BUTTON

Zlatan Ibrahimovic has opened up on how much he enjoyed his time at Manchester United and admitted he misses his former teammates at Old Trafford.

Ibrahimovic joined United from Paris Saint-Germain in 2016, aged 34, and scored 28 goals in his opening season as they won the Europa League and League Cup.

“I miss all of them,” Ibrahimovic told the BBC. “I had a fantastic time at United. Wazza [Wayne Rooney], Michael Carrick, then the young guys that wanted to show the world who they are by playing football and they had a lot of hunger to show. I had a good time because I got to know everyone, I was the mature guy with all these guys who were not mature.”

During his time in the Premier League, Ibrahimovic struck up a particularly fruitful relationship with Paul Pogba, United’s mercurial midfield talent.

“Paul Pogba, I had never played with him before and I didn’t know him as a person. We have the same management and when I got to know him I got to find a fantastic person and a fantastic footballer, but someone who needs to be guided.

“He is a professional guy that works every game and never misses training or a game. Those are all the things that people do not see, you only get judged by what you can see on television or the 90 minutes in the stadium, that’s where you have to perform. When you click with someone it just clicks. The connection on the field was amazing, we helped each other very well, I needed him and he needed me.

Ibrahimovic suffered a cruciate ligament injury which ruled him out of the final part of his opening season at Old Trafford and which from which he never fully recovered, disrupting his second season and precipitating his move to LA Galaxy, where he has scored 22 goals in 27 appearances.

“The first year at United we had a fantastic year. They made me feel like Benjamin Button. I was getting younger and younger, then unfortunately I got my injury.”

“The Premier League should be happy I did not come 10 years ago because it would’ve been a different story. You see all my numbers [of goals] and all of these numbers would’ve been in the Premier League. I came to the right club in United. It was the club and the shirt that I was supposed to shine in and I did it.

“Everybody thought that I’m too old. But I came, and I made the Premier League look old.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 68 ========

PARLIAMENT SEIZES FACEBOOK DOCUMENTS IN 'UNPRECEDENTED MOVE'

Parliament has used its legal powers to seize a tranche of internal Facebook documents as MPs investigate the Cambridge Analytica data scandal.

The documents reportedly lay bare the data and privacy controls used by the social media giant before the breach was made public.

They were intercepted when the boss of a US software company in possession of the cache visited the UK on business, according to The Observer.

Damian Collins, chair of the Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) Committee, compelled the founder of the firm to hand over the documents using a rare parliamentary mechanism.

In a highly unusual move a serjeant at arms was sent to the businessman’s hotel where he was given a final warning and a two-hour deadline to comply with the order.

When the founder failed to do so he was escorted to parliament and warned he risked fines and imprisonment if the documents were not surrendered, the paper said.

The firm is involved in court action against Facebook in the US, where the documents were obtained through legal mechanisms.

“We are in uncharted territory. This is an unprecedented move but it’s an unprecedented situation. We’ve failed to get answers from Facebook and we believe the documents contain information of very high public interest,” Mr Collins told the paper.

