====== 243 ========

MAN HAILED A HERO AFTER CATCHING BABY DROPPED FROM BURNING BUILDING IN DALLAS

A have-a-go-hero has been hailed after he caught a baby dropped from the third-floor window of a burning apartment building.

Byron Campbell held the one-year-old tight after her trapped mother was left with no option but to trust the stranger to catch her.

Footage of the dramatic rescue, in the Texan city of Dallas, went viral after it was placed online. Six other residents only survived the massive inferno – which destroyed 24 apartments – by jumping onto mattresses placed below.

“I didn’t want my daughter to lose her life,” the child's mother Shuntara Thomas told the KXAS news channel. “He told me: ‘Just trust me. I got her, I got her.’ So, without even thinking, I just dropped her.”

And she added: “Throwing my baby out to a complete stranger... Without him my child’s life would not have been saved."

Ms Thomas was, herself, then forced to jump during the drama at the city’s Meadows at Ferguson residential complex.

Mr Campbell appeared somewhat nonplussed by his own heroism.

"She got a baby and everything so I told her to drop the baby, the baby crying, coughing, I could tell she had a lot of smoke in the lungs and everything, so, at that time, I told her to drop the baby, and she dropped it,” he told the Dallas News website. “And I caught it. I walked it to safety.”

It also emerged that he had alerted many other residents to the blaze in the early hours of Wednesday morning. After noticing smoke coming from windows of the block while driving in the neighbourhood, he pulled over and joined police and firefighters banging on doors to alert residents to the danger.

With exits from the top floor apparently already blocked, mattresses were laid for six people to jump onto.

"Everybody held the mattresses on both sides and we told everybody just aim for the mattresses," said Darren Hicks, a man visiting friends who helped with the rescue.

Just three people – including a Dallas Fire-Rescue firefighter – suffered minor injuries.

The block of 24 apartments was immediately pulled down after the fire was put out due to concerns about structural safety. Some 40 people, including Ms Thomas and her baby, have been left temporarily homeless, the US Red Cross confirmed.

Investigators have since said they were not able to enter the block to determine what sparked the blaze.

====== 244 ========

‘IF WE THINK ABOUT OUR SOUL, WE ARE ALL ONE’: CHILDREN IN BANGLADESH MEET UK PEERS ONLINE

Sadika and Hashim dream of becoming doctors when they are older. Both live in Bangladesh, benefiting from life-changing programmes supported by the UK taxpayer, and one day want to use what they are learning to help others in turn. But it is there that the similarities end.

Sadika is a bright 15-year-old girl living outside the capital Dhaka, attending a school twinned to a UK academy as part of the Connecting Classrooms programme backed by The Independent’s Learn to Live campaign, in partnership with War Child.

As part of the scheme, children like Sadika share classroom projects – as well as knowledge and cultural insights – with boys and girls of a similar age in Britain.

The Independent visited Sadika’s school in Bangladesh to see the extraordinary success of the scheme, and attend a class where students 8,000km apart were nonetheless sharing and learning together.

First though, we met Hashim, an 11-year-old Rohingya refugee, part of the exodus of more than 700,000 who fled persecution in Myanmar last summer. He may live in the same country and only 400km from Sadika in Cox’s Bazar, but he may as well be on another planet.

His voice is timid as he describes to The Independent how he came to Bangladesh, walking for days to reach the border and taking a boat across treacherous waters with his family of eight.

The violence he witnessed there makes him reluctant to talk about what life used to be like – but his face lights up when he describes his old home. “I really liked my house in Myanmar, it was much bigger than our house here. We had some cattle, we had farmlands, there was so much space to move around.”

Hashim is now among around 140,000 children who are receiving basic schooling in temporary learning centres run as part of Unicef’s education programmes – for which Britain’s Department for International Development (Dfid) is a major donor – in the sprawling camps outside Cox’s Bazar.

He learns English, Maths and the Burmese language, and says English is his favourite class because, if he studies it really well, “I can communicate with the whole world”.

But while the setting is safe and the teachers well-meaning, the classes here are very simple – repeating phrases from a textbook by rote, writing the alphabet on a board. The children will outgrow the lessons by the age of around 12, and there is no formal system of education for them to access in the camps beyond that age. In this context, it is hard to imagine how Hashim will realise his goal of becoming a doctor.

The children in Hashim’s class all agree that the couple of hours they get in the school are the highlight of their day, despite the limitations. But from monsoon rains to sickness and disease, the challenges of living in the world’s largest refugee camp constantly get in the way.

Foremost among these is hunger. “In Myanmar we had enough food for ourselves,” Hashim says, “but here we don’t have very much. When I’m hungry, my stomach churns, it hurts. I try to concentrate on my studies even if I am hungry, but I can’t enjoy it very much.”

For Sadika, school is a smart-looking complex of three-storey buildings, stretching in an L-shape around expansive grounds in the otherwise crowded city of Narayanganj, just south of the capital.

It caters to more than 1,200 girls in two shifts, morning and afternoon, and though the desks are worn and mould creeps out from the corners of humid classrooms, parents come from miles around to buy up increasingly pricey property in the school’s catchment area.

The school is one of the biggest success stories for Connecting Classrooms, which is run jointly by Dfid and the British Council.

Sadika’s Narayanganj Government Girls’ High School is twinned with Boston Spa Academy in Leeds, and during The Independent’s visit they share a lesson on “food adulteration”, learning how the food they eat can be laced with dangerous or unhealthy additives.

Because there is a sizeable time difference between the two countries, the girls in Bangladesh are played a set of pre-recorded videos of Boston Spa pupils describing their diet and its nutritional value.

A number of the Narayanganj girls then give impressive presentations – describing toxic powders cut with turmeric to make them appear more fresh, substances injected into mangoes to stop them going off – in English, some using PowerPoint to illustrate their findings. These are filmed by their teacher, Rashedul Kabir, to be sent to the class in Leeds.

“There is only so much we can get from a lecture in the classroom,” Sadika says. “We are learning so much more from this [Connecting Classrooms] programme. We learn about what is happening outside Bangladesh – now we know that in the UK they also have food adulteration, so it is a global problem.

“We are also learning about [the British students’] culture. There are a few differences – their classrooms are much cleaner, their culture is slightly different, their language is different.”

Sadika says the Leeds pupils’ accents were “sometimes difficult to understand” over the video messages, adding “but we did it!”.

“At the same time they are also like us,” she says. “If we think about our soul, we are all one. I would love to visit [outside Bangladesh] if I get the opportunity. The more we get to know them, the more we want to learn, and it inspires us to want to see them [in person].”

For now, the UK government has suspended exchange trips for teachers from Bangladesh to visit Britain, citing security issues, the British Council said.

Mr Kabir says he was lucky to have completed a number of trips to Boston Spa Academy before the ban came in, and emphasised the importance of sharing his experiences with others as part of the next phase of Connecting Classrooms.

The more we get to know them, the more we want to learn, and it inspires us to want to see them

As well as the UK visits, the British Council provided him with a training course in modern teaching methods and materials to use for the shared projects.

“If you visit other schools here [in Bangladesh], you will not find lessons like this,” he says. “Back in 2012 I too could not have given a class like this.

“The next stage is to share this knowledge, not only with other teachers at my school, but also with community schools. These are coming forward for support, and I am sending the list on to British Council.

“There are some schools in very rural areas that have brought revolutionary change since joining Connecting Classrooms. One has partnered with 12 schools (in Bangladesh and around the world), and the teacher has brought games and materials from all those schools. I have seen how it is making a huge difference.”

Nusrat Jahan, a project manager for the British Council’s schools programme in the country, says last year the Connecting Classrooms programme trained 1,100 teachers in Bangladesh alone.

“The next phase is about scaling up international cooperation between schools and expanding the programme to reach more children,” she says.

“The rate of literacy is low, and the country is still mostly dependent on agriculture. There are challenges with conservative parents not wanting to let girls go out for education, and families are generally happier if they have boys who can eventually help out with the farm work.

“But the situation is changing with education – and that’s where we can make a difference. The prime minister is a woman, there are more graduate jobs for women, as well as government schemes to boost education for girls. Together we are challenging the belief that only boys can help earn a living.”

The rate of literacy is low, and the country is still mostly dependent on agriculture

For now at least, educational improvements in Bangladesh as a whole are not reaching the refugees stuck in the Cox’s Bazar border camps.

Though the Bangladeshi government has been generous in offering safe haven to the fleeing Rohingya people, it ultimately wants to see them return to Myanmar and is resistant to any physical structures or institutions – like proper schools – that might make the camps seem more permanent.

The British Council is in talks with Unicef to support the English-language elements of UN teaching programmes for refugees, but the political situation means it is impossible to extend the benefits of Connecting Classrooms to the Rohingya.

Unicef itself is looking at ways to extend education to refugee children beyond the age of 12, and it does currently run some safe spaces for adolescents in the camps, where small groups of teenagers paint and relax while learning about issues of sexual consent, trafficking, forced marriage.

But the lack of formal further or higher education prospects for the more than half a million children living in the camp has led the UN, in a major report last month, to warn of an imminent “lost generation”, vulnerable to crime and radicalisation.

With the UN’s fund for the crisis barely half funded for 2018, it is hard to see a positive future for children like 11-year-old Asmaira, who fled Myanmar on foot after her whole village was uprooted by the violence last year.

“I was afraid,” she says. “The journey was very difficult. On the way to Bangladesh I saw people lying down with their throats cut, and I saw bullets hitting people.”

Asmaira says life is hard in the camp and that she would like to go back to her home in Myanmar but then pauses, and her eyes start to well up. “Our household is there, but the house itself was burned down,” she clarifies. Asked if she hopes her family can rebuild what they had, she nods.

Asmaira says she wants to be an English teacher when she gets older. “I want to keep studying here at the learning centre for as long as I can,” she says. “Even when it rains, we don’t have umbrellas and we get wet but still I come. If I am going to become a teacher, it is important for me to keep learning.”

The Independent has, in partnership with War Child, launched the Learn to Live campaign, supporting the education of children in conflict areas around the world, and encouraging links between schools in the UK and abroad.

Teachers who want to join our project can go to www.warchild.org.uk/learntolive

For more information about twinning, visit: www.britishcouncil.org/connectingclassrooms

====== 245 ========

MIDTERMS 2018: INSIDE THE DEMOCRATS' MULTIBILLION-DOLLAR CAMPAIGN – THE COSTLIEST IN HISTORY – TO SEIZE CONTROL OF CONGRESS

Money was always going to be central to these midterms. With control of congress at stake – and with it perhaps the future of Donald Trump – there was no doubt that dollars would flow.

The non-partisan Centre for Responsive Politics, projects more than $5.2bn will be burned through this election cycle, making it the most expensive midterm by some margin. With a handful of days to go, $4.7bn has been spent by candidates, parties or Political Action Committees (PACs). The centre estimates Democrats will spend $2.53bn and Republicans $2.19bn. Independents and other parties will spend $460m.

“The significance of this election is clear. But whether it’s a blue wave or a red wave, one thing is certain: a wave of money is surging towards election day, much of it coming from the wealthiest donors targeting this year’s most competitive races,” says Sheila Krumholz, the centre’s executive director.

For the Democrats, the toughest piece of the puzzle has been using that money to connect its deep blue pools of support on either coast, with the less densely concentrated numbers in the heartland. It hopes to win races in seats long considered safe Republican turf.

Illinois congresswoman Cheri Bustos wants to be that bridge. Bustos, whose district includes the city of Peoria, the name of which has entered American culture as a shorthand for mainstream ordinariness, says issues there are as equally relevant to the supporters of progressives such as New York’s Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, as they are to those of Paul Davis, the son of an elementary school teacher who is contesting the Kansas 2nd.

“We’re focused in Peoria on the same kind of things folks in New York City or Chicago or LA are focused on, which is to make sure people can do well by their families,” the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s (DCCC) chair of so-called heartland engagement tells The Independent.

She adds: “What we hear all across this country is that health care costs too much. They’re concerned if they have a child with cerebral palsy… they’re not going to be able to get health insurance. They want us to do more about raising people’s wages.”

The Democratic Party has long struggled over how progressive its platform and message should be, an often bitter fight that most recently erupted in the 2016 primary race between Hillary Clinton’s support for incremental change and Bernie Sanders’ more radical vision. In a system in which only two parties have a realistic chance of winning a national seat, along with a handful of independents, those parties are obliged to try and have broad arms.

Bustos says the Democrats have an “image problem” but can overcome this by engaging directly with people. In 2016, Clinton was criticised for spending too little time addressing concerns of working class voters, especially in places such as the midwest, some of whom previously voted for Barack Obama, but decided that year to vote for Donald Trump and his promise to “make America great again”.

Bustos, one of just 12 Democrats who won in districts where Trump beat Clinton, said no special skills were were required to engage with voters in parts of the nation often derisively referred to as the “flyover states”.

“It takes hard work and going to towns that might just have 300 people or 800 people, and listening to those folks,” says the 57-year-old. “And make sure, whatever it is people at home have shared, that we come back out to Washington and write legislation that relates the needs at home, and vote for legislation that reflects the needs at at home.”

Lots at stake

Political commentators frequently describe upcoming elections as being unusually crucial. Yet, there is wide agreement a lot is at stake on 6 November. Voter enthusiasm is high, and turnout, usually much less in midterms than in presidential elections, is likely to be big.

With the White House and both houses of congress in the hands of Republicans, Democrats are desperate for a win. Their best chance is the House of Representatives, where they need to flip 23 seats, and which is where any impeachment proceeding against Trump would start.

The political analysis website FiveThirtyEight believes the Democrats have a six out of seven (84.6 per cent) chance of taking the house, and the Republicans just a one out of seven chance of holding it (15.4 per cent). It gives an opposite prediction for the senate, suggesting Republicans have a six out of seven chance of retaining it.

Mike Fraoili, a veteran Democratic strategist said he “could not see how”, Republicans could hold on to the house.

“I believe voters out there believe they want a check on president Donald Trump,” he says. The most important factor in ensuring a victory was getting people to vote – everybody from “millennials to seniors and everybody in between.”

PAC Man

Jeb Fain is a spokesman for the House Majority Political Action Committee, which is closely associated with minority leader Nancy Pelosi and which raises and spends millions of dollars on candidates across the country. Mr Fain declined to say how much it expected to spend in 2018, but said it “expected to exceed the roughly $50m” it spent two years ago.

PACs are supposed to enforce a firewall between their fundraising and particular candidates. In reality that is sometimes not the case. Fain said his organisation determined which races to spend on, and which issues to highlight.

Yet his message was similar to that of Bustos and other mainstream Democrats. “Our messaging has been remarkably consistent. We have been focused on healthcare and taxes going back a year-and-a-half…That is what the Democrats have been focused on. The Republicans have been doing a lot of personal stuff and nasty stuff and I think it shows a degree of desperation.”

The DCCC’s GOP equivalent, the Republican National Congressional Committee, failed to respond to requests to talk about the campaign.

Matt Fleming, a spokesman for the California Republican Party, said he was confident of holding onto seats such as those in Orange County, that Democrats were spending huge sums on to try and flip. “Holding every seat in the state is important if we are going to have any chance of stopping the Democrats’ radical, expensive agenda,” he says.

Wave of women

Analysts believe 2018 could see a record number of women elected to congress – perhaps more than 100 – with almost all the new faces coming from the Democrats.

Huge sums have been spent on races such as the Minnesota 2nd, where Democratic Angie Craig is seeking to oust Republican Jason Lewis. Democrat Stacey Abrams is the first African American woman nominated by a major party for a governorship race. She is competing in Georgia with a progressive platform. Ayanna Pressley is set to be the first black woman elected to congress from Massachusetts after winning the Democratic primary. Since then, she has run unopposed.

A major funder and supporter of Democratic women is the group EMILY’s List. They are confident of taking back the house.

“We really believe we have a lot of opportunity in the House of Representatives to make sure we add a historic number of Democratic women,” says president Stephanie Schriock. “The house also needs to be in Democratic hands so we can hold this Trump administration accountable.”

Away from the mainstream Democratic organisations, smaller groups have also been spending to try and ensure candidates that support a progressive platform, such as a $15 minimum wage, are elected.

Justice Democrats, established by people who worked in the 2016 Sanders campaign, endorsed and supported almost 80 candidates. Of those, 26 have made it to the election on Tuesday.

The candidates all share a commitment to a progressive platform that includes Medicare for All, investment in renewable energy and the scrapping of ICE, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement that it describes as a “state-funded terror group that regularly violates basic human rights”.

Spokeswoman Nasim Thompson says all its candidates represent both authenticity and a positive message. She said the party establishments had created a vacuum for groups that wanted to back candidates more in touch with voters.

Among its candidates are New York’s Ocasio-Cortez, and Ilhan Omar, who is contesting the Minnesota 5th and would become one of the first Muslim women elected to congress if she wins. (Another Muslim woman, Rashida Tlaib, is tipped to win Michigan’s 13th.)

“We see it as a difference between the bottom and top, more than right and left,” she says.

Bustos, who tries to spend as much time as possible talking to people, at grocery stores and workplaces, will campaign to join the Democratic leadership team as assistant Democratic leader if the party wins next week.

She and other Democratic leaders have faced grassroots’ criticism for not supporting more progressive candidates. Some have criticised Pelosi for not pushing for the impeachment of Trump, after the leadership decided such a tactic could backfire.

Asked about such criticism, Bustos says: “Wherever you are on the Democratic spectrum, we have a lot more in common than we have differences.”

====== 246 ========

OPELO KGARI: WOMAN BROUGHT TO UK AS CHILD DESCRIBES ONGOING DISTRESS AFTER RELEASE FROM 'INHUMANE' YARL’S WOOD

A woman who has been subjected to two failed deportation attempts and spent five months in detention has said it is a real blow to be refused UK status despite feeling entirely British.

Opelo Kgari, 28, who has lived in the UK since she was a child, was released from Yarl’s Wood in May. During her time there, she told The Independent of the restrictive and at times “inhumane” regime in the centre.

The Botswanan national and her mother were informed last week by the Home Office that her latest immigration claim had been rejected. They are now pursuing an appeal over the decision.

Speaking to The Independent on Tuesday, Ms Kgari said that although she sees herself as British, she feels unwanted by the UK government.

“I’ve been moulded into the woman I am today through the education system and the people who I hang out with all the time,” she said.

“So for the government to then turn around and say you’re not British, you’re not part of our community, is a real blow.”

The Home Office tried to remove Ms Kgari and her mother from the UK twice while they were in Yarl's Wood, but on both occasions the removal was thwarted following intervention from MPs and lawyers.

Ms Kgari – who, along with her mother, is now staying with a friend in Stoke-on-Trent and is still unable to work, study or travel – said the experience of detention and the removal attempts had affected her mental health.

“I was made to feel like I’d done something so wrong – to be put in a restraint belt and into a van, separate from my mum, with six escorts around me. It’s ridiculous, really,” she said.

“It was so hard, just not knowing what was happening. It was such a shock, and not knowing what would come next. The possibility of being deported to a place I have not been for such a long time.

“After the injunction was put through I stayed in my room in Yarl's Wood for a few days. I didn’t speak to many people for a while.“

Ms Kgari was first made aware that there was an issue with her status when she applied to university in 2010 and was rejected due to her immigration status.

Without the right to work, she threw herself into volunteering for charitable causes until she and her mother were detained in Yarl's Wood last year.

Now out of detention, but still with an unresolved immigration status, Ms Kgari said she was spending her time helping out with a crisis support organisation to “help make a difference to other people’s lives”.

She said: “Getting the news that our claim had been refused last week was difficult, and knowing that with that there’s a chance I could get taken back to the detention centre and possibly worse. I’m living every day as though it’s my last.

“I just hope that anyone who has seen or heard my story and is in a similar situation can rest assured that they are not alone. I hope my story will be able to help someone out there.”

A Home Office spokesperson said: “The UK has a proud history of granting asylum to those who need our protection. Where someone is found not to need our protection we expect them to leave the country voluntarily. Where they do not, we will seek to enforce their removal.”

====== 247 ========

LEARN TO LIVE: I WANT THE WORLD TO KNOW ABOUT CHILDREN LIKE ME

An “inspirational” Syrian child refugee who helped launch The Independent and The Evening Standard’s Learn to Live campaign spoke on Friday at the United Nations.

Haya, 16, fled a war-torn rebel-held region in Syria as the civil war began in 2011.

The then-11-year-old had to walk through the desert to the Jordanian border with her family, holding just the bags they could carry and leaving a whole life in Daraa behind.

Haya was chosen by London-based charity War Child to speak at a child-led Day of General Discussion on child human rights at the UN headquarters in Geneva. She shared the experience live with her new London friends.

It was the first time the teenager, who has spent the past six years living in a caravan home in the huge, dusty Zaatari refugee camp in the Jordanian desert, miles from the Syrian border, ever flew on a plane – or caught more than a glimpse of a metropolitan city.

Haya is one of the first children affected by conflict, from those in Jordan to Iraq and the Central African Republic, linked up with four London schools through our Learn to Live campaign.

The project aims to increase understanding between pupils of all backgrounds.

Haya’s War Child-run education programme in Zaatari, led by Jordanian Hatem, 26, who accompanied Haya to the UN and translated for her, have carried out their own projects in Zaatari, reporting and documenting the child labour catastrophe and lack of education opportunities they see around them daily.

After wandering around the new city in the favourite headscarf she wears in Zaatari, Haya put on her smartest clothes and addressed a panel with top UN officials, where she raised her opinions about what more needs to be done to help refugee children like her group fight for their own rights.

She spoke alongside a young Colombian refugee, and met child activists from all over the world – she had previously only ever met one or two people not from her own background.

She told The Independent: “I want them [the UN] to know about people in the camp and about how they are living, and also about what we can do. If someone comes from Europe to Zaatari for a few days and comes back and tells what they see, it is not the same [as me telling them]. It is a step forward.”

Haya has been sharing her experience with friends and family in the camp, sending WhatsApp photos of every new sight, recording noises in the streets and taking selfies to send back to the camp – where they have already been shared around the whole community.

She said: “I still can’t believe I am here.

“When I got to Amman I knew I wasn’t in the camp, but from what I saw I knew I belonged. But coming here it’s totally different. The buildings and the people.

“My mum and dad were very supportive, my mum said: ‘Take care of yourself and enjoy.’ I was confident – I said, don’t worry about me. They never left Syria before going to Jordan.

“My brother has taken screenshots of the pictures I’ve sent and is sending them to everyone.

“I will go back to the camp and tell them about this different world.

“This experience has opened up my world.

“I am so happy to meet all these different people, and now I want to talk with everyone about their culture and their backgrounds and find out lot about them.”

Haya and her classmates have already started this process, by sharing messages and creating an art project with Hornsey School for Girls in north London.

Over a Skype session she shared her latest UN experiences with her London peers, explaining the struggles of life in Zaatari, and they all laugh together about their life ambitions and where they hang out with friends.

Haya said: “It was good to tell them about my life. I enjoyed it and would like to talk more. It will be good to learn more about their whole lives.”

Haya met Michael Copeland, global co-ordinator at the UN children’s fund, who said he was positive about the work being done through War Child and the campaign.

The Independent has, in partnership with War Child, launched the Learn to Live campaign, supporting the education of children in conflict areas around the world, and encouraging links between schools in the UK and abroad.

Teachers who want to join our project can go to www.warchild.org.uk/learntolive

For more information about twinning, visit: www.britishcouncil.org/connectingclassrooms

====== 248 ========

LEARN TO LIVE: STUDENT WHO FLED SYRIA EXPLAINS HOW EDUCATION OFFERS HOPE TO YOUNG PEOPLE IN WAR ZONES

A PhD student who fled Syria to study in the UK has spoken of the importance of education in giving young people hope in war zones.

Yara Issa*, 28, is carrying out cancer research at the University of East Anglia (UEA) in Norwich – and she is hoping to help develop medicines that will reduce or prevent cancer.

But she recalls how her university building in Aleppo was hit by a bomb while she was sitting a pharmacy exam. The glass window shattered and her friends were left injured by the blast.

Yara made the decision to stay and sit the test despite the chaos unravelling nearby. She did not want to delay getting her degree by missing the exam.

“I finished it but it was a nightmare,” she says. “When I left the building, the scene was terrible. There was a river of blood going down the street. There were ambulances and a lot of screaming.”

Yara was in the middle of her pharmacy degree when the fighting broke out. She kept her head down and persevered with her work despite losing both her friends and her home to the war.

“In order to do anything in the future I had to survive this time,” she says. “It was merely the fact that ‘I am going to finish my degree’ that kept me going.”

Yara was finally able to escape Syria when the Asfari Foundation offered her a scholarship for a masters in the UK – which led to her PhD.

But Yara – who was trying to apply for courses abroad with no electricity, heating and limited internet in her home – faced a number of rejections before being given a chance.

“If I didn’t wake up in the morning and realise I didn’t have anywhere to go in my life – apart from applying and trying to find a legal way of leaving the country to continue my passion for higher education – I would not have been able to leave,” she says.

Yara is determined to do more to help other young refugees who are determined to get an education and is now a youth advocate for War Child, the charity working with The Independent on our Learn to Live campaign.

The campaign, in conjunction with the Evening Standard, aims to forge links between students in the UK and their peers who are living in war zones and refugee camps across the world. It is hoped the campaign will increase empathy and understanding of the issues facing young people in different parts of the world.

We are linking schools in the UK with schools in countries like Jordan, Iraq and the Central African Republic to let children whose lives have been devastated by war know that neither they nor the importance of their education have been forgotten.

Yara says: “Providing Syrian children with safety, education, mental and psychosocial support could prevent detrimental long-term effects both in the countries hosting Syrians and Syria itself.”

The transition from Syria to rural England was not easy, however. When she first came to the UK to study three-and-a-half years ago, Yara says she found the experience “shocking and scary”.

“It was a different universe,” she says. “At the beginning, I didn’t feel like people had empathy or understanding. But I don’t blame them. For me, I was a shy person.

“It was the shock because I came from a different place, from a war zone. But once I interacted and learned more about what they like to eat and where they like to dine, it went really well.”

*Her name has been changed to protect her identity

The Independent has, in partnership with War Child, launched the Learn to Live campaign, supporting the education of children in conflict areas around the world, and encouraging links between schools in the UK and abroad.

Teachers who want to join our project can go to www.warchild.org.uk/learntolive

For more information about twinning, visit: www.britishcouncil.org/connectingclassrooms

====== 249 ========

MUKALLA: LIFE AFTER AL-QAEDA IN YEMEN

The Yemeni doctor first learned her husband had been kidnapped by al-Qaeda when its heavily armed militants stormed her house in Mukalla, while she was home alone with their two-month-old baby.

The masked fighters, who were wielding machine guns, attacked Dr Fatma (not her real name), locked her in the kitchen and ransacked the building.

“They told me they had taken my husband and brother. They robbed the house and took everything. They sealed my front door. I was only able to get out when my family came to rescue me,” she told The Independent from the hospital where she now works.

“From that day on I have not heard my husband’s voice or seen him at all. I’ve heard nothing for three years.”

Her husband and brother, whose names The Independent have withheld for their safety, were reporters for a local network.

They had covered a rare demonstration in Mukalla against al-Qaeda’s rule, during the autumn of 2015. The militants, who were concerned about losing support, did not want news of the rallies to spread.

Despite the obvious dangers of speaking out, Fatma decided not to stay quiet. She issued a statement via social media about the kidnapping and complained about how she was attacked.

Twelve days later, in an extraordinary act of bravery, she even staged a protest outside al-Qaeda’s main headquarters in the city, where militants opened fire. They threatened to kill her elderly father and sent masked men repeatedly to her home to keep her quiet.

Fearing for the safety of her loved ones, she eventually announced she had left the province. She quit her job and went underground.

By this time, October 2015, around 1,000 battle-hardened fighters from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), one of the group’s most lethal franchises, had been in control of Mukalla for half a year.

Back in the spring of 2015, the terror group had conquered swathes of territory, exploiting a security breakdown in the war which erupted when the Shia Houthi rebel group ousted Yemen’s President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi. Saudi Arabia and the UAE intervened to reinstate the recognised Yemeni government. Three years on, the conflict with the Houthis is still raging and at least 10,000 people have been killed.

Seizing Mukalla, a city of 300,000, was a major feat for the global terror group. From the strategic provincial capital, they ruled a mini-state which stretched for 700km from near the border with Oman into a western district of Aden.

AQAP held Mukalla, Yemen’s fifth biggest city, for a whole year, until April 2016, when a 10,000-strong force of Yemeni soldiers, trained and managed by the UAE, took back the city. The Emiratis maintain a significant presence in the strategic port city.

Two years after their retreat, and in the middle of a devastating and drawn out war, the city is trying to put itself back together again.

Dr Fatma is back at work, manning a crucial women’s and children’s health clinic in the city, which would not have been possible under al-Qaeda. Her brother was freed when AQAP fled the city, but her husband’s location is still unknown.

“Every day I wait for news, maybe they took him with them to the countryside when they fled the city,” she added.

According to the UAE army, AQAP militants are now present in a string of villages around Marib, in the centre of Yemen, Bayda just south of it and Wadi Hadramawt north of Mukalla.

But there are sleeper cells within the city and so no one takes any chances.

UAE soldiers travel around in nine-vehicle armoured convoys. Heavily-armed Yemeni soldiers clear streets when Yemeni officials move.

Al-Qaeda in Yemen, which the United Nations says has around 7,000 fighters, is not an easily distinguishable entity. Its members are often part of or have married into powerful tribes and militias. When they first entered Mukalla, they formed a council with local leaders, and were careful to tout their image as a powerful Sunni bulwark against the encroaching Shia Houthi threat.

Many of AQAP’s leaders hail from Hadramawt, the province in which Mukalla lies, and so the group even rebranded themselves the “Sons of Hadramawt” to curry local favour. During their one year in power the group boasted about providing residents with basic services, such as drinking water, electricity, and fuel.

Today, checkpoints manned by Emirati-trained brigades litter Mukalla. Bombed out buildings from the conflict sporadically scar the city. Signs demanding people hand over their weapons ring the outskirts of the city. It is noticeable that no one is visibly armed, which can be common in other parts of Yemen.

I have not heard my husband’s voice or seen him at all. I’ve heard nothing for three years

Major-General Faraj Al-Bahsani, governor of the region, said that they were now working on a busy schedule of rebuilding health and education services, new homes and even a local police force.

“We don’t have much of a budget from the state because of the conflict, but we have started oil production, the ports are working, while access to electricity here in Hadramawt is the best in Yemen,” he said proudly from his offices in the city.

The city, he added, went through a lot.

The first thing the militants did upon taking Mukalla in April 2015 was to “empty the jails”, he claimed.

“Then they went to the banks and took all the money. Hadramawt is a big state, the money stored in Mukalla came from five different provinces. They took it all,” he said.

AQAP furnished their war coffers with an estimated $100m from looting Mukalla’s banks and collecting revenue from the city’s port. A recent report by Associated Press claimed the militants were permitted to leave the city with much of that loot in controversial deals with the Yemeni and Emirati forces when they took over. The UAE has denied the accusations, claiming 500 militants were killed in the battle for the city.

Dr Fatma described the year under their leadership as “hell on earth”. She said opposition figures or members of security forces were slaughtered “like sheep” in public, people were extorted under the guise of “taxes” and graves of religious figures deemed “infidels” were destroyed.

We don’t have much of a budget but we have started oil production, the ports are working, while access to electricity here is the best in Yemen

Women, however, suffered the most.

“I remember a woman, accused of adultery, who was buried in the ground with only her head above. They kept throwing big rocks at her until they smashed her head and she died. We were not permitted to leave the house, they were strict about dress, ” she told The Independent.

“Even children changed their behaviour. Their street games were playing wars and dressing as the terrorists,” she added.

Near Dr Fatma’s workplace, another prominent female resident who was threatened by al-Qaeda spoke about having to go underground during the terror group’s year-long rule.

Afrah Jumaakhan, who before the takeover was a radio presenter, is now Yemen’s first female director of a radio station.

“They used to send people to my house to threaten me. They burnt down our radio building, but we have rebuilt it here, in this former children’s book shop,” she said.

Ahmed, not his real name, is a young journalist, kidnapped by al-Qaeda in early 2016 just months before the militants lost the city.

He told The Independent he was not only investigated and tortured in detention but so was everyone who came to visit him.

“At that time, it was impossible for a man and a woman to cross the street alone without being questioned. All government bodies were closed. Many suffered to feed their families and so even joined AQAP due to a lack of jobs just to get the pay check,” he said.

He was only freed after he vowed not to report again.

“After my release, I rarely left the house and only stayed in close proximity. Psychologically and mentally, I was broken,” he added.

And while the city still appears much destroyed, there are positive signs. At the city’s port, officials say for the first time since al-Qaeda swept control, it has started exporting goods – specifically fish.

Salem Ali Basamer, the port’s chief, said 300 wooden ships now dock a year, double the number in 2016, while the number of commercial and fuel ships has tripled.

He claimed the port had even secured a security certificate from the International Maritime Organisation.

Under al-Qaeda, the port was used as a lucrative source of funds for the group. Basamer estimated the militants were able to make some $700,000 from the port during their year in power.

But a lot has changed since then, he claimed.

“Europe thinks this place isn’t secure yet but we have the IMO certificate,” he told The Independent.

“We want to change their view of Mukalla. It is a stable city. We are ready to participate in international business in Europe. We have only seen two European vessels in two years, the only ships that come are Saudi, Emirati and Indian. We need that to change,” he added.

One of the biggest projects under way at the moment is a new police force. There was a lot of criticism of the Yemeni security forces that manned Mukalla before al-Qaeda took over, amid accusations that the city was effectively handed over to the militants without a fight.

Earlier this year the Emiratis, who have built significant military infrastructure here and so have massive influence over the city, flew in their own interior ministry officials to train up new recruits – and they say this will stop any capitulation happening again.

The first batch of graduates – 224 young men – completed the six-week training last week. The Emiratis have shipped in nearly 160 police wagons, four fire trucks and 60 motorbikes for the province. They hope the police force will eventually take over manning checkpoints and security of the city, freeing up the military forces.

On the sidelines of the graduation ceremony, attending Emirati officials said that with the new police force, they even plan to reopen Mukalla international airport.

One young officer, Lieutenant al-Moody, 28, told The Independent he signed up because his best friend was murdered by al-Qaeda for being part of the resistance in Mukalla.

“I’m proud to be in this force. It is my responsibility to restore peace to Hadramawt, I’m doing this job because of my friends, my family and my freedom,” he added.

Back at the women’s clinic, Dr Fatma distracts herself from missing her husband by planning a new wing of the hospital for severe malnutrition cases.

“I thank God for those who gave us the security and safety after Mukalla was liberated,” she said after a long shift in the hospital.

“It gives us hope.”

Read the first piece in Bel Trew’s series, One Week in Yemen, here: Inside the UAE’s war on al-Qaeda in Yemen

====== 250 ========

GRENFELL TOWER SURVIVORS STILL SEARCHING FOR A HOME ONE YEAR ON: 'I DON'T WANT A CASTLE, I DON'T WANT A PENTHOUSE'

When Antonio Roncolato walks into a room, the first thing he thinks about is how he can escape it. The 58-year-old was trapped in his 10th floor flat in Grenfell Tower as it burned on 14 June last year, black smoke filling the rooms. He waited to be rescued for five hours.

A year later, the Italian waiter is among 129 households from Grenfell Tower and the surrounding area that have yet to move into permanent accommodation. He hopes his new flat will be at ground level, so it is easy to flee.

“When I move, it’s very important which floor it is [on] and the way to get out; how difficult it is, in case of an emergency. I want to have everything planned,” he says, sitting on a sofa in the living room of his temporary flat.

“Knowing there is no way out unless somebody helps you and if somebody doesn’t, you run a big risk of not getting out alive, was an awful feeling.”

Mr Roncolato’s 27-year-old son Christopher saw the building was on fire on his way home from work. “I was deep asleep and I didn’t hear anything, but obviously the fire had already been burning for an hour or so,” says the 58-year-old.

“He told me: ‘Get out of there.’ At that moment I realised there were a lot of noises – something strange was going on.

“Shortly after, he sent me a photo of the burning tower. I thought: ‘You’re in big trouble here.’”

Mr Roncolato says he dressed quickly and packed a rucksack with important documents and a few other belongings.

“I tried to go out – I touched the door. It was very warm. I opened it a little bit and this thick puff of black, hot smoke came into my eyes.”

It was so overpowering he slammed the door shut immediately, he says.

In the hours that followed, smoke spewed into the flat through cracks around the windows and doors. He soaked towels with water and wedged them into the gaps.

His fire alarm was screeching, he says. He tried to ventilate the apartment by opening windows on the south and east-facing walls, where there was less smoke. Every so often he would go to those windows and hang his head out to gasp clean air.

He was in regular phone contact with his son, who was watching from outside as the tower burned. “I would reassure him that I’m okay, that I would make it out alive, that I am sure I’ll get out,” he says.

But he could not be sure. His son was “really stressed”, he says. “He thought I was lying and he thought I was trying to keep him happy.”

Mr Roncolato was monitoring the fire’s progress by watching its reflection in the windows of nearby buildings. By around 6am, he says he could see the fire was “crawling down” the outside of his flat.

At that point, Christopher ran past the police who were guarding a cordon around the area, and found a firefighter standing at the foot of the tower. He passed him his phone, with his father on the other end of the line.

Within a few minutes of Mr Roncolato giving the firefighter his location, two men in protective gear were at his door. The 58-year-old put on swimming goggles to protect his eyes, and his rescuers placed a wet towel over his head before guiding him out of the flat.

He was hit by a wall of heat. “You had this impact, like when you get out of a plane and you arrive in a very hot country and the tarmac is very hot,” he says. Water and debris fell onto him as they made their way down the stairs and out of the tower, he recalls.

Now, Mr Roncolato wants to leave the blackened high-rise behind and move to another part of Kensington. He would also like his new house to be near his son. “Christopher has needed a lot of help right after the fire because he was traumatised by looking at the tower burning and me inside, not knowing if I would make it out or not,” he says. “This was the reason we want to be as close as possible.”

He says the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea (RBKC) seemed to have the “best of intentions” at the beginning of the rehousing process.

“They assessed us, asked us where we would like to be,” he says. But then they bought flats in north Kensington, “without perhaps considering that some residents have expressed a desire and the need to be in another part of the borough”, he says.

Of the flats he was offered in south Kensington, many were on the third or fourth floors, he says, and he worried it would be hard to get out in an emergency. Other houses he has been offered had no living room, or nowhere to put a washing machine.

He says he would like a living room and kitchen big enough to have guests round. But he did not want anything too luxurious: “I don’t want a castle, I don’t want a penthouse,” he says.

After seven and a half months in a hotel room, he is now in a temporary flat near High Street Kensington: “I like this flat, it’s a nice place, but it’s not my home. It’s like being in a hotel, but bigger.”

A damning report released by the North Kensington Law Centre this week found the council has worsened the trauma suffered by many Grenfell survivors by taking too long to rehome them.

Although 90 per cent of the 209 households needing rehousing have accepted offers of permanent properties, just 82 have moved in, the report said.

The delays are partly due to the condition of some of the housing provided, with damp, disrepair and access problems having to be fixed before families could move in, the report says.

RBKC had spent £235m on securing 307 properties to rehome people, the report says, but “the fact that so much of this housing stock lay empty for up to six months as it is being made habitable is illustrative of the fact that many of these purchases were not suitable”.

“Too many offers of unsuitable housing have been made to Grenfell survivors. This has meant that the rehousing process has been drawn out for far longer than it should have, residents’ mistrust of the council has deepened, and perceptions of the competence of RBKC has been damaged further,” the report says.

Tomassina Hessel, who was evacuated from the Walkways – on the same estate as Grenfell – is still living in a room at the Novotel hotel in Hammersmith.

She shares a bed with her four-year-old son Jesse, which she says is “frustrating”. “Everything happens on that bed and you’re very limited,” she says.

The room has a wardrobe, which she uses to store her clothes and some outdoor games, but Jesse’s clothes have to go in suitcases under the bed.

Cardboard boxes have become her storage cabinets. “One is a bookcase, one is for toys. So when I move, I can flip it over and the stuff’s packed already. I’m ready to go,” she says.

It is the third hotel they have stayed in. For a while, she felt relatively stable here, she says. But then in January, the hotel had a large booking and all the former Grenfell residents staying there had to move out for several days.

“They didn’t tell us before because they didn’t expect us to be there for all that time,” she says. “When they had to move us out of the room, I realised they can do that at any time.

“This is not actually manageable. You can’t live in a hotel like this. You live in a constant state of anxiety – you just don’t know what’s coming.”

She told Jesse they were moving out so the room could be cleaned. “I had to give him a reason for why we’re packing up, but I wanted to hide him from the anxiety,” she says. “I didn’t want any of that to touch him.”​

Ms Hessel fears her four-year-old’s development is being harmed by living in the hotel. “It is holding him back – he’s very clingy” she says. “He wants me to hug him [as he falls asleep]. I have to oblige, because there’s no other alternative at the moment.

“When we’re in one room I can’t make him fall asleep by himself and climb into bed an hour later – it doesn’t work.”

It is also difficult for her to feed him healthily without a kitchen, she says. “It’s takeaways everyday. Very often we’ll go to a Greek or a Turkish restaurant, which is relatively healthy, but you do often have sandwiches and chicken and chips.”

Jesse, who was three when the fire started, has been asking his mother about the cladding, which fire experts have blamed for spreading the flames around Grenfell Tower.

Ms Hessel has been trying to reassure him about it. One night, she says she showed him how he would get out of their hotel if there was a fire.

“Then he lay back down and, with a sense of total surrender, said – ‘Oh, if there’s a fire we’re gonna die’ – like that’s just how it was,” she says. “I was heartbroken about that.”

Councillor Elizabeth Campbell, leader of Kensington and Chelsea Council, said in a statement: “It has been a hugely complex challenge, but nine out of 10 residents from Grenfell Tower and Walk have accepted permanent homes and we are working with them to help them move in.

“We must do everything we can to rehouse families as quickly as possible and support them in rebuilding their lives. We have already committed £235m to secure 307 homes, so that people have maximum choice available. We continue to look at the barriers to moving into a new home, but we all have to accept that one of the barriers is trust in the council itself – that is something we understand, and accept, and it will take time to rebuild.”

====== 251 ========

JOHN ALLEN CHAU: POLICE INVESTIGATE WHETHER US ADVENTURER HAD EXTRA HELP REACHING REMOTE ISLAND WHERE HE WAS KILLED BY TRIBE

Police are investigating whether American adventurer John Allen Chau had extra help reaching a remote island where he is reported to have been have been killed by an endangered tribe.

Indian authorities said the 26-year-old, believed to be a mountaineer and Christian missionary, may have had help from more people than initially thought to make his illegal voyage. He was allegedly killed earlier this month by people of the Sentilese tribe who inhabit the North Sentinel Island in the Andaman and Nicobar island chain.

In a statement, Andaman police said they would further investigate “various aspects of the case, including the sequence of events, the sea route followed for North Sentinel Island, the location where the victim landed and the place of the incidence, the location where John Allen Chau was last seen.”

Initially, police believed Mr Chau paid seven local fishermen — all of whom are currently under arrest — to assist him in reaching the island where tourism and photography is illegal.

The fishermen told police that they later saw his body being dragged across a beach and buried in the sand, identifying it as Mr Chau by his clothes and silhouette.

Authorities must now juggle the complicated process of investigating the death of a foreign national while simultaneously protecting one of most vulnerable populations on the planet.

The Sentinelese, hunter-gatherers armed with primitive spears and bows and arrows, are considered to be the last pre-Neolithic tribe in the world and the most isolated such group.

North Sentinel, located 31 miles (50 kilometres) west of Port Blair — the capital of the island cluster — is protected by laws which bar even fishing within a 5-nautical mile radius of the island. Those guilty of breaking the law face jail of up to three years.

Police have reportedly already attempted a recce of the island on multiple occasions to gain a better understanding of what may have happened 17 November.

“I understand the emotional concern of the family,” Dependra Pathak, director general of police in the Andaman and Nicobar islands, told Reuters. “But we’ll be handling the entire issue keeping in mind the law.”

“We have to respect the utmost sensitivities in this case,“ he added.

The tribe, estimated to be only a few dozen in number, have for decades aggressively resisted contact with the outside world.

Anthropologists were briefly in contact with the tribe in the early 1990s, but their effort was abandoned due to fears that contact with the outside world could expose the tribe to pathogens and lead to their extinction.

Some people who said they knew Mr Chau described him in glowing terms on social media, while others criticised his visit to the island.

“John wasn’t reckless; he was incredibly and profoundly filled with purpose and calling,” Sarah Prince, who described Mr Chau as a “dear friend”, said in a post on Instagram.

“His ‘adventure’ to India was to bring the love of Jesus to the Sentinelese people. Ultimately it is what he gave his life for, and he was prepared to do it,” she added.

Mr Chau had been able to make contact with the tribe and return to the fishing boat two or three times, according to notes he left with the fishermen that are now in custody.

Mr Pathak said authorities were looking into whether they could retrieve his body.

“What has happened is not very clearly spelled out in his notes, but it is indicative of his deep expedition planning and his determination to contact these aborigines despite knowing he would face vigorous rejection,” he said.

Mr Chau’s social media posts identify him as an adventurer and explorer. Responding to a travel blog query about what was on the top of his adventure list, he wrote: “Going back to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in India.”

He also said in the blog: “I definitely get my inspiration for life from Jesus.”

Based on his social media posts, he appears to have visited India multiple times in the last few years, exploring and preaching in many parts of southern India.

“We recently learned from an unconfirmed report that John Allen Chau was reported killed in India while reaching out to members of the Sentinelese Tribe in the Andaman Islands,” members of Mr Chau’s family said in a post on his Instagram page.

The family asked that local contacts not be prosecuted in the case, saying they have forgiven the tribe and others who may have helped him reach the island.

They described him as a “beloved son, brother and uncle” as well as a Christian missionary, wilderness emergency medical technician, soccer coach and mountaineer.

“He loved God, life, helping those in need and had nothing but love for the Sentinelese people,” the family said. “We forgive those reportedly responsible for his death. We also ask for the release of those friends he had in the Andaman Islands.”

In 2006, two fishermen who strayed onto the island were killed and their bodies never recovered. An Indian Coast Guard helicopter sent to retrieve the bodies was repelled by a volley of arrows from the community.

Reuters contributed to this report.

====== 252 ========

FORMER USA GYMNASTICS PRESIDENT 'INFORMED OLYMPIC COMMITTEE OF SEXUAL ABUSE' DECADES BEFORE LARRY NASSAR SCANDAL

The former president of the USA Olympic Gymnastics (USAG) team said she informed the US Olympic Committee (USOC) of sexual abuse in the sport over two decades ago, claiming “little was done” to address the issue.

Kathy Scanlan, who served as USAG president from 1994 to 1998, said she addressed sexual abuse with the committee shortly after taking charge, according to filings at the US District Court for the Northern District of California this week. "USOC's challenge to [USA Gymnastics] disciplining professional members in this fashion (specifically impeding the ability to ban, suspend or investigate a member) would have inhibited me from adequately protecting minor members,” she said.

Her statement arrived after the Olympic Committee threatened to revoke USAG’s status as a national governing body for the sport following the high-profile scandal involving repeat sexual abuse by former national team doctor Larry Nassar.

Ms Scanlan testified she had helped enact national policies to protect children including publishing names of terminated members in USA Gymnastics magazine, according to the new filings included in a March lawsuit filed by Aly Raisman, the three-time Olympic gold medalist suing Nassar, the USOC, USAG and others for serial sexual abuse.

Ms Scanlan’s successor Bob Colarossi, who was USAG president from 1998 to 2005, also testified that he had addressed the sexual misconduct issues with the USOC, according to the court documents filed on Wednesday.

A representative for the USOC did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday.

USAG has been in turmoil over the past two years since dozens of female gymnasts, including Olympic champions Ms Raisman, McKayla Maroney, Gabby Douglas and Simone Biles, came forward to accuse Nassar of sexual abuse.

Nassar was sentenced in February to up to 125 years in prison after some 200 women testified about abuse at his hands. The scandal prompted the entire board of directors at USA Gymnastics to resign, along with the president and athletic director at Michigan State University, where Nassar also worked.

It has also sparked several lawsuits, high-profile resignations and criminal and civil investigations.

Mr Colarossi noted in a 1999 letter sent to the USOC that the USAG’s safety procedures regarding the abuse of minor athletes by their doctors and coaches were a “fundamentally flawed process” and the committee had an “apparent indifference to the welfare of young children.”

Rather than revoking its status, the committee instead decided not to relinquish its recognition by asking questions about the matter and the USOC hearing process.

Many victims testified that Nassar, 54, sexually abused them under the guise of medical treatment while on his examination table, sometimes hiding it from view of parents waiting nearby.

The revelations of the long-running abuses sparked investigations into possible abuse at US athletic federations and schools by Congress and the US Department of Education, and led to the resignation of the head of the US Olympic Committee, who cited medical reasons.

“I’ve signed your death warrant,” Ingham County Circuit Court Judge Rosemarie Aquilina told Nassar, following days of accounts from about 160 of his victims.

After the sentence decision, the president of Michigan State University, where Nassar also worked, said she was resigning after facing a barrage of criticism for not doing enough to halt the abuse.

Nassar, who served as the program’s physician through four Olympic Games, apologised to his victims during the hearing, telling them, “I will carry your words with me for the rest of my days.”

Nassar, who already is serving a 60-year sentence in federal prison for child pornography convictions, also said his accusers fabricated claims to gain money and fame, writing, “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.”

Reuters contributed to this report.

====== 253 ========

TRUMP SUGGESTS 'VICIOUS WORLD' SHOULD BE BLAMED FOR KHASHOGGI MURDER WHILE DISPUTING SAUDI RESPONSIBILITY

Donald Trump has suggested “maybe the world” should be held accountable for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, as he doubled down on his insistence the CIA had not concluded Saudi Arabia’s crown prince was responsible for the killing.

Speaking to reporters after delivering a Thanksgiving Day message to troops deployed to Afghanistan, the president again denied the country’s pre-eminent intelligence agency believed the powerful Mohammed bin Salman was behind last month’s murder.

“They did not come to a conclusion. They have feelings, certain ways, but I have the report,” the president said. “They have not concluded. Nobody’s concluded. I don’t know if anyone could conclude that the crown prince did it.”

Mr Trump spoke after the Washington Post reported last week the CIA had concluded the crown prince ordered the assassination of journalist the 59-year-old journalist, who went missing after entering a consulate in Turkey to prepare for a trip to Saudi Arabia to get married. Turkish investigators believe the journalist was dismembered and his body parts taken out of the Istanbul facility by a 15-strong hit squad.

Mr Trump said this week the US was standing by Saudi Arabia even though “it could very well be” the crown prince was responsible. He said Washington would remain a steadfast ally and would not impose sanctions, as many Democrats have demanded.

“My policy is very simple: America first, keep America great again and that’s what I’m doing,” Mr Trump told reporters from his estate in Florida.

“It’s a terrible thing. I dislike it more than you do. But the fact is … they create tremendous wealth, really tremendous jobs in their purchases and very importantly, they keep the oil price down.”

Asked who should be held accountable for the killing if not Saudi Arabia, the president replied: “Maybe the world should be held accountable, because the world is a vicious place. The world is a very, very vicious place. You look at what’s happening in China, you look at what’s happening in so many different countries, I could name many countries. You look at what’s happening in terrorism all over the world.

“The other thing about Saudi Arabia, they’re putting up tremendous amounts of money to fight terrorism. Now, they were part of terrorism and nobody is going to try and justify that. They were a big part of it. But they’re spending a lot of money and they’re opening up and they’re doing a lot of things.”

Mr Trump has been widely accused of ignoring a string of human rights abuses by Saudi Arabia in order to protect access to cheap oil, and to maintain a relationship with a country it considers a vital counterweight to Iran.

The Associated Press said that on Capitol Hill, several politicians triggered investigations into Mr Khashoggi’s death and specifically whether the crown prince was responsible. The investigations were requested under provisions of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act.

The act requires the president to report back to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee within 120 days, on whether the crown prince was responsible, the AP said.

Many have said they were not surprised by Mr Trump’s decision.

“A US president continuing to back a regime after evidence emerges of its true brutality is nothing new, even if it is, this time, his own CIA telling him,” Mark Curtis, an historian and the author of Secret Affairs: Britain’s Collusion with Radical Islam, told The Independent.

“Even Saudi involvement in 9/11 has not been enough to halt the Washington-Riyadh alliance. Trump is continuing to act at the behest of US corporations but also from seeing Iran as the main barrier to US domination of the region, hence the need to preserve the US alliance with Riyadh at all costs.”

Mr Trump’s comments came as Saudi’s crown prince arrived in the United Arab Emirates on Thursday at the start of a tour of several Arab countries – his first trip abroad since Mr Khashoggi’s murder.

Reuters said the prince, the country’s de facto ruler, was also expected to participate in a G20 meeting in Buenos Aires at the end of the month which would be attended by leaders from the US and Turkey, as well as other European nations.

====== 254 ========

METEOR EXPLOSION OVER BRISTOL CAUGHT ON CAMERA BY ASTRONOMER

An astronomer has captured the moment a meteor exploded over Bristol after entering the earth’s atmosphere.

Retired scientist Derek Robson had his camera set up to film the night sky when it occurred at 5am on 10 November.

The footage shows the fireball rapidly hurtling across the horizon, before exploding in a flash of white.

“I was asleep when it all happened,” said Mr Robson, 58, ”I keep a camera running in my back garden which is triggered by motion sensors.

“This shower occurs every year but it is hard to capture. These fragments can either be the size of a pebble or quite large. You’ve got to be lucky to see something like this. It’s a once in a lifetime moment.”

“Its amazing to think they could have been orbiting the sun for millions of years. The camera I use is outside my home all year round – I have it running from dusk till dawn.”

“It was mine and my late father’s favourite constellation,” he added, ”So I feel like it was my father who was throwing the meteor my way.”

====== 255 ========

WHAT ARE DONALD TRUMP'S THANKSGIVING PLANS? FAMILY, GOLFING AND MAR-A-LAGO'S TURKEY DINNER

Donald Trump has is spending Thanksgiving in Florida, golfing at his exclusive international club while staying at his membership-only resort — which typically features a 24-dish dinner to celebrate the holiday

Mar-a-Lago’s previous Thanksgiving dinner menus featured numerous Trump-branded options, including a three-layer Trump chocolate cake and the “Mr Trump Wedge Salad.”

The president flew to his private property in southern Florida shortly after performing the traditional “presidential pardon” — and a bit of political satire — for two turkeys named Peas and Carrots at the White House.

Mr Trump reportedly spent his morning at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach on Wednesday, playing a round with Jack Nicklaus and his family after arriving the night before to Mar-a-Lago.

The first family was expected to continue its tradition of celebrating Thanksgiving at the resort, with the president scheduled to remain in Florida throughout the weekend.

Critics have complained about Mr Trump’s frequent visits to private properties owns, as well as the reportedly high security costs it takes to secure those facilities, typically funded by taxpayers.

Local officials have said his repeated visits have cost Palm Beach county taxpayers millions, with the federal government reimbursing the region over $3m to cover his trips last year.

Mr Trump has reportedly spent nearly one out of every four days at his golf properties since becoming president, and has spent between two to three months in total at Mar-a-Lago since assuming the White House.

====== 256 ========

WHITE HOUSE ‘AUTHORISES USE OF LETHAL FORCE’ FOR TROOPS ALONG US-MEXICO BORDER

The White House has authorised military troops along the nation’s southern border to use “lethal force” if it becomes necessary while assisting Border Patrol and US Customs and Border Protection officers, it has been reported.

The move comes after Donald Trump urged the military to send thousands of troops to the US-Mexico border ahead of the arrival of a caravan of refugees and migrants travelling from Central America. The president has claimed – without evidence – that among the caravan are criminals and Islamists.

White House chief of staff John Kelly is said to have signed the cabinet order on Tuesday night, over the threat of possible incidents of violence on the border. It gives permission for military personnel to “perform those military protective activities that the secretary of defence determines are reasonably necessary,” including “a show or use of force (including lethal force, where necessary), crowd control, temporary detention, and cursory search”.

The order – first reported by the Military Times - applies to 5,900 active-duty service members currently deployed to the region, as well as 2,100 National Guard troops.

On Wednesday, US defence secretary James Mattis said he has now been equipped by the White House with the “authority to do more” with the troops, while noting the military does not have arrest authority and will “not be doing law enforcement”.

He said that he was waiting for a request from the department of Homeland Security before deciding how to use that new authority. He said troops could help protect the border agents with shields and batons, but would be unarmed.

“We could stop [migrants] from beating on [Border Patrol agents],” Mr Mattis said.

However, the move may be challenged, as the 1878 Posse Comitatus Act bars the military from engaging in domestic law enforcement practices.

In a report, the Congressional Research Service said active military troops may only be used domestically to “suppress insurrection or to enforce federal authority”, while maintaining the right to self-defence.

But the latest order appeared to speak specifically to protecting Border Patrol agents and US Customs officers, with Mr Kelly saying he was aware of intelligence which indicates migrants “may prompt incidents of violence and disorder” while reaching the border.

The order is just one of several new controversial approaches the Trump administration has taken to resolving issues along the border.

Officials told Reuters on Tuesday the White House was also considering giving US troops permission to medically screen all arriving migrants, despite the Pentagon previously saying it did not expect military forces to interact directly with migrants.

But the military has resisted several of the administration’s requests throughout the region, with a lieutenant general overseeing the deployment of military troops to the border telling Politico this week the Department of Homeland Security denied requests to use “armed force” in assisting US Border Patrol agents.

Mr Trump has also recently threatened to target the amendment-protected practice of birthright citizenship, a move that would almost certainly end up in lengthy court battles. The president also encouraged military troops to treat rocks thrown at them by migrants as “firearms” during a televised statement.

While there are no readily available statistics on violent confrontations along the US-Mexico border, field offices throughout the region have previously told The Independent most interactions with immigrants are peaceful and non-confrontational.

Migrants lacking documentation are often detained either at or between ports of entry, before going through processing and typically applying for asylum. Data shows the majority of undocumented immigrants show up for court proceedings during the asylum process.

The White House and US Customs and Border Protection did not respond to enquiries.

====== 257 ========

KANSAS COMMISSIONER RESIGNS AFTER TELLING BLACK PRESENTER HE IS PART OF ‘THE MASTER RACE’

A white member of the Leavenworth County Board of Commissioners in Kansas has resigned after telling a black consultant he was part of the “master race” during a public meeting.

Louis Klemp, 80, issued a public apology through a resignation letter read during a board meeting on Tuesday, writing “I regret my recent comment” and adding his intentions were “well-meaning”.

His controversial remarks arrived during a public meeting held earlier this month about a potential new development being built in the region, featuring Triveece Penelton, a black female consultant for VIREO Planning Associates in Kansas City.

According to a video of the meeting, Mr Klemp spoke directly to Ms Penelton and said: “I don’t want you to think I’m picking on you because we’re part of the master race. You know you got a gap in your teeth. You’re the masters. Don’t ever forget that.”

The comments brought a swift rebuke from the state’s governor, Jeff Coyler, who said in a statement: “Racial and discriminative language have no place in our society, and most especially when spoken by someone holding a public office.”

“The inappropriate remarks made by Leavenworth County Commissioner Louis Klemp are unacceptable and do not reflect the values of the county which he represents,“ he added.

A special meeting was then held by the Leavenworth City Commission last week, calling on Mr Klemp to resign.

On Tuesday, he obliged.

“My attempts at identifying a similarity, space between our teeth, with the presenter were well-meaning,” Mr Klemp wrote in his letter. He said the phrase was “definitely not racially motivated” while extending “my regret and support.”

The term “master race” was popularised by Adolf Hitler and Germany’s Nazi Party that rose to prominence in the 1920s, and has been used to describe the belief – which is wrong – that white people are superior to other ethnicities.

Mr Klemp’s fellow commissioners said he did “the right thing” in leaving the board.

“This is a good example that the choice of words does matter,” Commissioner Doug Smith said during the meeting. “I hope the young lady involved will accept our apology and will not hesitate to help Leavenworth County on future projects.”

====== 258 ========

THANKSGIVING: BARACK OBAMA PAYS SURPRISE VISIT TO CHICAGO FOOD BANK TO HELP PREPARE MEALS

Barack Obama has surprised volunteers at a Chicago food bank with an unannounced visit to help prepare Thanksgiving meals.

The former president arrived with bags of donated food and donned latex gloves to work side by side with volunteers at the non-profit organisation, which helps provide meals to more than 700 food pantries and shelters across Cook County, Illinois.

Mr Obama – who helped bag potatoes – brought staff from his Obama foundation with him. The foundation seeks to improve communities across America by offering leadership training and other programmes.

Mr Obama still lives in Washington DC but the former Illinois senator is in Chicago to attend the Obama Foundation Summit, a gathering of community leaders and students.

“We believe no one should go hungry, especially this time of year, and that’s why we’re working to address the root causes of hunger in Chicago and Cook County,” the Greater Chicago Food Depository tweeted, along with a video of the surprise visit.

The video has been viewed almost two million times.

“You guys are doing such a great job helping out,” Mr Obama told one young volunteer. “I’m really proud of you.”

Mr Obama tweeted about the visit on Wednesday, saying that he is “grateful for the next generation of leaders... who understand that hope requires action”.

Mr Obama has volunteered on a number of occasions around Thanksgiving. While still in the White House in 2015, Mr Obama was joined by the whole first family to serve dinner to the local homeless population and veterans at Friendship Place Homeless Center in Washington DC.

On that day, Mr Obama was in charge of serving turkey and gravy, while then-First Lady Michelle Obama served up vegetables. Daughters Sasha and Malia gave out mashed potatoes, stuffing and cranberries.

====== 259 ========

CINDY MCCAIN SAYS SHE WILL 'NEVER GET OVER' TRUMP'S WAR HERO SLURS AGAINST LATE HUSBAND

Cindy McCain has said she will “never get over” Donald Trump's attacks on her late husband, John McCain's his legacy as an American war hero.

The widow of the Arizona senator addressed controversial remarks the president has repeatedly made that he does not consider Mr McCain a “war hero” because he was captured during the Vietnam War, saying, “I like people that weren't captured.”

When asked whether she was “hurt” by those comments during an interview with BBC, Ms McCain replied: “Yeah I was. I thought it was inappropriate and wrong. I really did. It hurt the family, too.”

She added, “I think that was a wrong thing to say and I … I don’t know if I’ll ever get over it, if I’m being honest. But I’m the wife, that’s my prerogative, I don’t have to.”

Ms McCain, who became regarded as a “political force” alongside her husband during his tenure in the Senate, has kept notably quiet about Mr Trump’s presidency since he made it to the Oval Office in 2016.

On Wednesday, the Republican refused to commit to voting to Mr Trump in the 2020 election, suggesting she did not believe the president was guaranteed to seek a second term.

“You know, I don’t even know if he’s going to run, and he’s not sure, I don’t believe he’s sure he’s going to run,” she said. “At this point, I’d like to see some softening of the rhetoric, I really would.”

“It’s hard,” she continued. “It’s hurtful.”

The president was not invited to Mr McCain’s funeral earlier this year, though several members of his administration — including Vice President Mike Pence — attended the historic occasion alongside former first families.

The late senator and decorated military veteran died of brain cancer complications at 81-years-old, after a long battle with glioblastoma.

====== 260 ========

CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES: NEW VIDEO SHOWS MOUNTAIN TOP RESCUE OF STRANDED PEOPLE AND DOGS

A pair of helicopter pilots have been commended for their bravery, after rescuing three people and two dogs who were stranded during the California wildfires.

David Nordquist and Joel Smith were conducting a water drop, when they received a request to conduct a rescue at Castro Peak, near Malibu on 9 November.

As thick smoke surrounded the hillside, causing low visibility, one of the Air Operations pilots said: “This isn’t looking good.”

But they continued to navigate around the mountain top, in an effort to land safely, which they eventually did.

Once they managed to touch down they noted that was "critical”,as Mr Nordquist maintained control of the helicopter and Smith made his way over to the people, who eventually boarded the aircraft.

The helicopter then pulled up into the air and the pilots returned to the Chatsworth neighbourhood of Los Angeles, so the helicopter could refuel.

Commending the pair for their professionalism, dedication and technical expertise, the Los Angeles Fire Department released footage of the rescue, which was taken by Mr Nordquist's helmet camera.

====== 261 ========

JIM ACOSTA: WHITE HOUSE SHARES APPARENTLY DOCTORED VIDEO POSTED BY CONSPIRACY SITE INFOWARS TO JUSTIFY SUSPENDING CNN REPORTER’S PRESS PASS

The White House has shared footage posted by an editor of a conspiracy theory website showing Jim Acosta making contact with a Trump aide, in a bid to justify its suspension of the CNN reporter’s press pass.

Mr Acosta “placed his hands on” a female aide trying to retrieve a microphone as the journalist repeatedly questioned the president, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders claimed in a statement posted to Twitter.

The incident occurred during a fiery press conference in which reporters and Mr Trump clashed over his divisive rhetoric in the run-up to the midterms.

Footage showed Mr Acosta attempting to keep the microphone during his questioning of Mr Trump, while the female aide tried three times to grab the microphone from him.

On her final attempt, Mr Acosta’s free hand briefly blocks the aide’s arm, as Mr Trump refuses to answer the reporter’s questions.

Announcing Mr Acosta’s suspension, Ms Sanders said the White House would “never tolerate a reporter placing his hands on a young woman just trying to do her job”.

“As a result of today’s incident, the White House is suspending the hard pass of the reporter involved until further notice,” she wrote on Twitter.

She added: “The question is: did the reporter make contact or not? The video is clear, he did. We stand by our statement.”

Late on Wednesday, Ms Sanders posted partial video footage of the incident, alongside a statement which read: “We stand by our decision to revoke this individual’s hard pass. We will not tolerate the inappropriate behaviour clearly documented in this video.”

The video, which has no audio and is of notably low quality, shows the moment Mr Acosta’s hand blocks the aide’s attempts to grab the microphone. It repeats the moment six times, each time zooming further into the brief moment of contact.

Many social media users accused Ms Sanders of posting footage which sped up the contact to make Mr Acosta’s movement appear more aggressive.

But according to analysis by The Independent, the video instead appears to have been doctored to freeze for three frames the moment before Mr Acosta’s hand pushes down on the aide’s arm.

Ms Sanders’ tweet came exactly two hours after the same video was shared by Paul Joseph Watson, editor-at-large of InfoWars, a far-right conspiracy theory website fronted by Trump-supporter Alex Jones.

Mr Watson denied altering the footage in an interview with Buzzfeed News. He downloaded a gif file posted elsewhere, “zoomed in, saved it again as an mt2 file – then converted it to an mp4 [video file]”, he told the site. He added: “Digitally it’s gonna look a tiny bit different after processing and zooming in, but I did not in any way deliberately ‘speed up’ or ‘distort’ the video.”

Mr Trump has long feuded with CNN and accused it of peddling “fake news” – the channel is one of his favoured punching bags. During the ill-tempered press conference on Wednesday, he singled out Mr Acosta as “rude”.

He has also threatened to revoke the broadcast licences of outlets whose content he dislikes, and stoked anger against journalists by denouncing them as the “enemy of the people”.

Speaking on CNN to colleague Anderson Cooper, Mr Acosta said: “I was just trying to ask a question of the president. It was obviously a question they didn’t like.

“I do think this is a test for all of us. I do think they’re trying to shut us down.”

In a statement, CNN said the revocation of Mr Acosta’s credentials “was done in retaliation for his challenging questions at today’s press conference”.

The company said Ms Huckabee Sanders had “provided fraudulent accusations and cited an incident that never happened”. It added: “This unprecedented decision is a threat to our democracy and the country deserves better. Jim Acosta has our full support.”

====== 262 ========

CRYPTOCURRENCY MARKET ON BRINK OF 'PRICE EXPLOSION' BUT BITCOIN WON'T TRIGGER IT, EXPERTS PREDICT

In November 2017, bitcoin was in the middle of a remarkable price surge that would see its value rise 10-fold over the course of six months. By mid-December, one bitcoin was worth close to $20,000 (£15,000), but that was the high water mark before the tide turned.

A year later, bitcoin is trading at around a third of its peak value but some cryptocurrency analysts believe the market might be on the verge of mirroring the gains it experienced in late 2017. The only caveat is that it might not be bitcoin that leads the charge this time.

Overstock CEO Patrick Byrne, who was behind the online retail giant becoming one of the first places to accept bitcoin back in 2014, said that he still expects the mass adoption of cryptocurrency, without specifying which one.

Speaking to bitcoin enthusiast Naomi Brockwell on her YouTube channel, Mr Byrne said he remained highly sceptical of the traditional financial system. When asked if he saw bitcoin becoming a worldwide currency, he pointed to countries like Venezuela that have experienced significant financial turmoil in recent years.

"When people start getting into it is when their own financial systems collapse," he said. "Whether bitcoin is the one, whether bitcoin has solved its speed problem, or it's another cryptocurrency, only time will tell."

Bitcoin has enjoyed the most sustained period of stability in its history, helping it address the issue of price volatility that some critics say makes it unsuitable as a form of mainstream payment.

General consensus among market analysts is that this trend is likely to continue in the short term, barring any major news that could send the price shooting in either direction, such as a large-scale hack on a leading exchange, or positive regulation implemented by a financial body.

Bitcoin price predictions made by 10 analysts for November's Finder Cryptocurrency Predictions Survey suggest that the world's leading digital currency will experience steady growth over the next year, though the upcoming months remain uncertain.

“Some of our panellists believe external forces could shift the market greatly over the next month, and particularly for bitcoin," Jon Ostler, CEO of Finder.com, told The Independent.

"The upcoming decisions on a Bitcoin Exchange Traded Fund being approved or not by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Commodities and Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) deciding whether to accept the application by ICE backed cryptocurrency exchange, Bakkt, are expected before 1 December. So at this stage, it’s difficult to predict exactly what will happen."

Looking longer term, Mr Ostler said bitcoin is expected to experience steady growth over the next year, with the panel of experts predicting an average value of $16,732 by the end of 2019.

“With bitcoin being very stable and within a range between $6,800 and $6,100, it is hard to suggest anything will change until it breaks this range," said cryptocurrency trader Craig Cobb, who forms part of the panel.

But if it's not bitcoin, a hint at what this next break-out cryptocurrency might be was given earlier this week by Blockchain, the world's most popular bitcoin wallet. On Tuesday, the company announced it would give away $125m-worth (£96m) of the Stellar cryptocurrency as part of a major initiative to encourage its use as a mainstream form of payment.

Stellar is currently not even in the top five cryptocurrencies in terms of its total value, according to CoinMarketCap, but while it may be lesser-known, its backers say it is more technologically advanced and better suited to large-scale usage.

"[Stellar's] token, XLM, enables quick, low cost, worldwide transactions, even when millions of people are using it at once," Blockchain CEO Peter Smith wrote in a blog post introducing the giveaway.

Another cryptocurrency that could see massive gains in the coming months, some experts say, is bitcoin's closest rival ethereum. Technology expert Ian McLeod of Thomas Crown Art said that the world's second largest cryptocurrency could be on the verge of a "monumental, defining global breakout."

Currently trading at just above $200 – down from a high of $1,350 in January – Mr McLeod claims ethereum could reach as high as $500 by the end of 2018 and could see its price "explode" in 2019 and beyond.

“We can expect bitcoin to lose 50 per cent of its cryptocurrency market share to ethereum, its nearest rival, within five years," Mr McLeod said.

“Ethereum is already light years ahead of bitcoin in everything but price and this gap will become increasingly apparent as more and more investors jump into crypto."

====== 263 ========

BUSINESS ANALYSIS & FEATURES

====== 264 ========

WHAT COULD DAY ONE OF NO-DEAL BREXIT LOOK LIKE? FROM TRANSPORT CHAOS TO MEDICAL MELTDOWN AND FINANCIAL PANIC

It’s Saturday 30 March 2019 and Britain has gone over the cliff edge.

At 11pm the night before the UK left the EU with no deal agreed. There is no financial liabilities settlement. There is no agreement on EU citizens’ rights or security cooperation. Britain is totally outside the customs union. There’s no single market “transition”.

Nor is there any route to a free trade deal. All Britain has to govern its trade with the EU now is the bare rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).

Theresa May announces her resignation and the Conservative Party begins its leadership election process.

Nigel Farage is delighted at the last-minute collapse of the Brexit negotiations and declares outside parliament, as the dawn breaks, that Britain is now truly an independent nation once again.

Jacob Rees-Mogg, now the clear favourite for the Tory leadership having lead the successful campaign to thwart May’s proposed “vassalage” deal, informs BBC Radio 4’s Today programme that although what he describes as a “clean Brexit” will likely entail some “bumpiness” any disruption will be short-lived and ultimately well worth it.

Travellers are the first to feel the bump. UK airports are in chaos, as all flights to mainland Europe have been cancelled since late on Friday.

The WTO rules do not cover aviation. And no aircraft is permitted to fly between the UK and EU airports until a new bilateral agreement on flights is reached.

Weekend motorists in Kent are also suffering, as the roads leading to the ports of Dover and Folkestone soon become gridlocked with stationary lorries.

Each UK export consignment to Europe now has to be checked by customs staff in Calais, with tariffs and VAT collected.

The French port’s infrastructure is rapidly overwhelmed and ferry companies are instructed not to disgorge any more lorries until they can hire and train more officers.

The only option for hauliers bound for the EU is to queue and wait.

Hardliners in Germany, France and the Netherlands insist on no cooperation with the perfidious Brits whatsoever until they agree to honour their £39bn of EU liabilities

Traffic going the other way also locks up, as the UK’s small band of customs staff also soon become swamped, despite instructions for them to check only one incoming consignment from the EU in five.

By the end of the day, gaps are already starting to appear on UK supermarket shelves as shoppers, hearing about the customs crisis, stockpile goods, anticipating that deliveries from Europe will fail to arrive.

Some petrol stations are running low on fuel as tankers have difficulty getting through. Expecting a rush of panic buying, some profiteering operators jack up fuel prices on Sunday to as much as £1.50 a litre.

When the stock markets open on Monday, traders’ screens are drenched in red as UK stocks and investment funds get brutally marked down. Many find they cannot process orders on behalf of European clients due to the sudden demise of the single market passport for financial services.

Bank executives implement their contingency plans, informing thousands of employees that they will either be sacked or relocated to Frankfurt.

Lawyers are commissioned across the Square Mile for a gargantuan battle over trillions of pounds of derivative contracts whose legal status is now suddenly in doubt.

Despite an emergency rate cut and unprecedentedly large financial market liquidity injection from the Bank of England, panic takes hold in the City.

The pound is sinking at its most rapid rate since the night of that Leave vote in the Brexit referendum. One airport bureau de change offers to buy pounds for only a single dollar.

Car plant workers in the midlands and the north east arrive for work only to be told that half of them should go home. The parts they need to work with have not been delivered. They are stuck in transit and the “just in time” delivery system has broken down. The shockwaves ripple out to their thousands of supplier firms. Airbus announces it is closing down its entire plant in Wales, throwing 10,000 out of work at a stroke.

Despite months of stockpiling, many NHS drug deliveries are also held up. Non-urgent operations are cancelled indefinitely. All but the most sick are urged not to present themselves for treatment. One panicking manager of an overstretched hospital turns away a Spanish woman because, he says, as an EU citizen, her right to healthcare in the UK is now unclear. Others follow the precedent. The Madrid government declares that, in retaliation, retired Britons on the Costa del Sol will also be ineligible for Spanish healthcare.

Civil servants frantically hammer the phones, trying to get through to their European counterparts, pleading for the ports and airports to be opened, for emergency supplies to be fast-tracked, for some kind of temporary political agreement on the rights of EU citizens and Britons on the continent.

But the Europeans are divided. Hardliners in Germany, France and the Netherlands insist on no cooperation with the perfidious Brits whatsoever until they agree to honour their £39bn of EU liabilities. They are also consumed with the question of how to deal with Ireland, which has refused to close its border with the north for fear of provoking a Republican terror attack, leaving a gaping hole in the EU’s customs union.

As UK public anger and fear swells, Brexiteers give defensive media interviews. Some blame the chaos on the government’s failure to plan adequately.

Others blame the EU for deliberately sabotaging the UK economy and demand retaliation. Others call for martial law. Not one utters the words “project fear”.

====== 265 ========

TRUMP NEWS: GOOGLE IS FAILING TO SHOW ENOUGH GOOD STORIES AND COULD BE PROSECUTED FOR MAKING ME LOOK BAD, SAYS PRESIDENT IN LATEST ATTACK ON MEDIA

Donald Trump has accused Google of rigging its search results to make him look bad.

People who search for the latest news about the president are in fact being shown intentionally damaging stories, he claimed.

Mr Trump even suggested that the search giant could be prosecuted for not showing enough positive stories.

“Google search results for ‘Trump News’ shows only the viewing/reporting of Fake New Media,” he wrote on Twitter. ”In other words, they have it RIGGED, for me & others, so that almost all stories & news is BAD. Fake CNN is prominent. Republican/Conservative & Fair Media is shut out. Illegal?”

He also suggested that he had studied the results on a search for “Trump news” and concluded that almost all were “left-wing”. It is not clear where that figure came from, and it does not appear to match up with what appears on that results page at the moment.

“96 per cent of results on ‘Trump News’ are from National Left-Wing Media, very dangerous,” he continued. “Google & others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can & cannot see. This is a very serious situation – will be addressed!”

The search results that appear on any Google page are decided by an algorithm that brings in a whole host of factors, many of which remain known only to Google itself. Results are also influenced by previous browsing and search history, and that may be happening to the president.

The company has looked to alter some of the ways it decides what to show in the wake of complaints about false news, and suggestions that the search results were showing partisan or misleading news sources.

Google is yet to comment on the president’s allegations.

At the moment, searching for “Trump news” brings up stories from a wide-range of sources. They include positive stories from the BBC and Fox News, as well as more critical pieces from CNN.

Mr Trump sent the post at 5.30am local time, apparently after having searched his own name. He is known to be continually interested in coverage of himself.

The president and those around him have launched a number of attacks on both Google and other tech companies in recent weeks. Many firms such as Apple and Facebook have opted to remove far-right voices such as Alex Jones from their platforms, which has led to criticism from Mr Trump.

Last month, he wrote a long rant on Twitter about how he claimed right-wing voices were being shut down on the platform.

“Social Media is totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices,” he wrote. “Speaking loudly and clearly for the Trump Administration, we won’t let that happen. They are closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT, while at the same time doing nothing to others.......

“.....Censorship is a very dangerous thing & absolutely impossible to police. If you are weeding out Fake News, there is nothing so Fake as CNN & MSNBC, & yet I do not ask that their sick behavior be removed. I get used to it and watch with a grain of salt, or don’t watch at all..

“....Too many voices are being destroyed, some good & some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen. Who is making the choices, because I can already tell you that too many mistakes are being made. Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!”

====== 266 ========

SECOND BREXIT REFERENDUM WOULD SEE UK VOTE TO REMAIN IN EU, NEW POLL ANALYSIS SHOWS

The UK would vote to remain in the EU if a second Brexit referendum were held, new polling analysis has suggested.

Peter Kellner, former president of YouGov and polling analyst, suggested that up to one million Labour supporters who voted Leave in the 2016 referendum are having second thoughts.

In an article for Prospect, he points out that YouGov has carried out 14 polls this year asking people if the UK was right or wrong to vote for Brexit.

“Thirteen of 14 polls this year show slightly more people saying ‘wrong’ than ‘right’,” he said.

“This indicates a small but consistent net move away from Brexit.”

A large part of Mr Kellner’s belief stems from data showing that generally older voters supported Leave, whereas younger voters tended to support Remain.

He said: “Bluntly, older, mainly Leave, voters are dying – and younger, mainly Remain, voters are joining the electorate.”

Mr Kellner points out that Leave voters outnumber Remain by 1.3 million and that since the referendum roughly 1.2 million voters had died, while 1.4 million have entered voting age, meaning “demography has already reduced that lead by more than half”.

However, he warned that even if a second referendum were to take place, Labour would have to “campaign actively to stay in the EU”.

“This would, of course, require Jeremy Corbyn to abandon his past views of Brussels, which have ranged from lack of enthusiasm to outright hostility,” he added.

An exclusive survey for The Independent by BMG Research in December showed 51 per cent of people now backed remaining in the union, while 41 per cent still want Brexit.

Legal challenges have also claimed another referendum is required before Britain can leave the EU.

Campaigners say the 2011 “referendum lock” introduced by David Cameron prevents any significant change to relations with the EU without the public’s say, and therefore requires a second referendum.

The news comes as Michel Barnier, the chief Brexit negotiator for the EU, told Britain to “face the reality” of Brexit, and warned against blaming the EU for any negative consequences it caused.

====== 267 ========

LATTE LEVY: WHAT IS THE PROPOSAL, AND HOW COULD IT HELP SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT?

What is it?

MPs on the Environmental Audit Committee are asking for the Government to introduce a “latte levy” – essentially a 25p charge on every disposable coffee cup bought by consumers.

Why is it being considered?

It is estimated that the UK throws away around 2.5bn disposable coffee cups a year and almost all are incinerated, exported or sent to landfill because their plastic lining makes them expensive to recycle.

Evidence heard by the committee during its inquiry claimed that less than one per cent of coffee cups are recycled because there are only three facilities in the UK that can split the paper and plastic components.

And last year researchers at Cardiff University concluded that charging 25p for every coffee cup would help cut the number used by up to 300m a year.

Don’t coffee shops already offer discounts for bringing your own cup?

Yes. But many critics – and companies themselves – believe the discounts offered are not doing enough to encourage consumers to cut down on their waste.

Pret A Manger, for example, earlier this week announced that it will double its discount to 50p in an effort to reduce waste.

And Starbucks has said the company will start a three-month trial next month of imposing a 5p charge for disposable cups in up to 25 London stores, adding that its trial of a 50p discount for customers using reusable cups in 2016 “did not move the needle in the way we thought it might”.

Just 1.8 per cent of the company’s customers currently use recyclable cups.

Why is it 25p – not 5p?

The highly successful plastic bag initiative, introduced in 2015, has already reduced the number of single-use plastic bags being used by consumers by around 85 per cent. But advocates of the 25p charge for disposable coffee cups suggests this was devised with the idea in mind that people use several bags when they shop, making the overall charge higher than 5p.

Who is supporting it?

Charities, on the whole, have been enthusiastic about the report’s recommendations. Laura Foster, the head of clean seas at the Marine Conservation Society, said the charge would be similar to the plastic bag charge introduced in 2015 and would “help consumers think about whether to take a refill cup to the café”.

Celebrity chef Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall branded the problem “horrendous” and one that needs “urgent action”.

Environmental charity Hubbub said it was “disappointed” that the industry had not used lessons from two successful cup recycling campaigns – one in London which recycled more than four million cups since its launch in April 2017 and another in Manchester which recycled almost 30,000 cups from one street alone – to achieve wider impact.

A spokeswoman said: “We welcome this report and hope it will stimulate the industry to do more.”

Is the Government likely to support it?

The Government has recently taken action to tackle plastic bags and is also under pressure to act more widely on non-recyclable plastics. It is yet to reply to the committee’s recommendations.

But a spokesperson for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said the Government “will closely consider the committee’s recommendations and respond shortly”.

They added: “We are encouraged by industry action to increase the recycling of paper cups with some major retail chains now offering discounts to customers with reusable cups.”

Where does the money go?

The committee says that the revenue generated from the producer will be collected and managed by a central body and then used to fund recycling infrastructure for the remaining cups still in use by consumers.

The MPs add: “As the recycling rate for coffee cups improves, the levy could be lowered year on year. This would encourage good management of the revenue from the levy.

“To ensure that disposable coffee cups and other types of paper food packaging are captured and recycled, the revenue from the 25p coffee cup charge should be used to support local councils to provide food packaging recycling bins and waste management. Disposable food packaging collected in these bins could be recycled in a similar way to the initiatives shown through in-store recycling schemes.

“A proportion of the revenue could also be used to support a wide-reaching public communications campaign that would provide easily digestible information on best-practice recycling while on-the-go, therefore reducing litter and improving recycling of all types of food packaging waste.”

====== 268 ========

NATIONAL DAY OF MOURNING: HOW MANY NATIVE AMERICANS OBSERVE THANKSGIVING?

For most Americans, Thanksgiving is a day to celebrate with food, family, and friends.

But for many Native Americans, many of whom think of the day in terms of sadness and remembrance, the controversial holiday is marked with a National Day of Mourning.

Since 1970, the fourth day of every November has been commemorated with a march and rally by Native Americans in Plymouth, Massachusetts, who do not celebrate the “first” Thanksgiving feast between the Pilgrims and the Indians, but instead remember the Native Americans who have lost their lives and culture since colonisation.

What is the National Day of Mourning?

The National Day of Mourning is a rally organised by the United American Indians of New England (UAINE) to honour Native American ancestors lost in the 1637 genocide, when hundreds of Pequot Indians were massacred, and “the struggles of Natives people to survive today.”

Each year, several hundred Native Americans living near the location of what is commonly considered the first Thanksgiving in Plymouth, Massachusetts, gather to rally and march at Cole’s Hill near Plymouth rock.

For many participants, the tradition begins the day before at sundown with a fast, which they then break the following afternoon at a pot-luck that takes place after the march.

Although the group welcomes non-Native supporters, only indigenous people are asked to speak to commemorate the struggles of the past and present.

According to the website, this year’s NDOM is “dedicated to our thousands of relatives who are migrants and are being abused by ICE and other government agencies, including having their children stolen from them.”

This will be the 49th year the march has been held.

When will it take place?

This year’s NDOM will take place on November 22 - the same day as Thanksgiving - at 12pm.

What does the UAINE hope to achieve?

The annual tradition is held not only in memory of their ancestors, but as way to fight and protest existing racist beliefs and ideologies in America against all indigenous people.

In addition to protesting Thanksgiving and the “pilgrim mythology perpetuated in Plymouth,” the organisation also protests racist team names and mascots, and other struggles faced by minorities in America.

“We believe very strongly that we must support others in struggle, particularly other communities of colour, the LGBT community, and the disabled community,” the website states.

====== 269 ========

REMEMBERING STEPHEN COLBERT'S 2006 WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENTS' DINNER ROAST OF GEORGE W BUSH

As Donald Trump hints at making an appearance at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner next year, it’s a good opportunity to remember when Stephen Colbert stepped up to the plate to host the evening in 2006.

The former host of the Colbert Report performed his satirical character of a right-wing political commentator.

Taking a pop at the then commander in chief George W. Bush’s approval ratings, he joked: “Now I know there are some polls out there saying this man has a 32 per cent approval rating. But guys like us, we don’t pay attention to the polls. We know that polls are just a collection of statistics that reflect what people are thinking in ‘reality’. And reality has a well-known liberal bias.”

"I believe the government that governs best is the government that governs least, and by these standards we have set up a fabulous government in Iraq," added Colbert.

Pulitzer prize winning-author and historian Ron Chernow is hosting the event in 2019. Mr. Trump expressed an interest in attending, saying: “Good first step in comeback of a dying evening and tradition! Maybe I will go?”

The president refused to go to the two events which have occurred during his tenure, and is the first president not to attend since Ronald Reagan in 1981.

Comedian Michelle Wolf hosted the evening last year. Watch some of her best insults from the night here.

====== 270 ========

ELLEN POMPEO URGES WHITE PEOPLE TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST LACK OF DIVERSITY IN HOLLYWOOD

Ellen Pompeo has urged white people to take action against the lack of diversity in Hollywood, telling them to speak out on every possible occasion.

The actor made her point during a talk organised by Porter magazine, titled “The Big Television Debate”.

Speaking as part of a panel that also included Gabrielle Union, Gina Rodriguez, and Emma Roberts, Pompeo pointed out the importance of making sure crews and film sets are inclusive.

“This day has been incredible. And there’s a ton of women in the room. But I don’t see enough colour,” she said.

“And I didn’t see enough colour when I walked in the room today.

“And I had a meeting with the director of another endorsement project that I’m doing. I said, “When I show up on set I would like to see the crew look like the world that I walk around in every day.

"And I think it’s up to all productions to make sure that your crew looks like the world we see.”

Pompeo, who has become the highest paid actress in a TV drama for her role on Grey’s Anatomy, added: “As Caucasian people, it’s our job, it’s our task, it’s our responsibility to speak up in every single room we walk into. That this is not OK. That we can all do better.

“It’s our job because we created the problem.”

Her comments earned acclaim on Twitter, where many social media users praised her for taking a stand.

“I love Ellen Pompeo so much. She normalizes the idea of diversity for other white people who don’t understand it,” one person wrote.

“Instead of acting like she should be praised for it, she recognises that it is NORMAL to want and have diversity and representation.”

Union has long called for more representation in the film industry.

“Diversity is super limited, so I hate using the word,” she told Byrdie earlier this year.

“I prefer inclusion. So let’s talk numbers because they might think they’re including ‘diversity’ that actually doesn’t equate to any sort of real inclusion.”

Rodriguez has worked to give performers of colour more visibility by using the hashtag #MovementMondays on her Instagram account.

Back when she started the movement, Rodriguez mainly featured Latino actors, and she has since broadened her focus.

She has recently highlighted the work of Puerto Rican actor Ismael Cruz Cordova, American musical theatre star Lindsay Mendez, and British Malaysian actor Henry Golding.

====== 271 ========

NEWS

====== 272 ========

ELVIS PRESLEY AND THE MEDAL OF FREEDOM: HOW WOULD THE KING HAVE FELT ABOUT THIS HONOUR FROM TRUMP?

Elvis Presley was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom on Friday, 41 years after his death.

While it may come as a surprise that no president included the King on his list of honorees until today, Donald Trump was the one to finally extend the distinction – the highest civilian honour – to the cultural icon.

So just how honoured would Presley have felt to receive the medal from Trump – as opposed to, for instance, his predecessor Barack Obama, who gave it to Diana Ross and Bob Dylan, among others; George W Bush, who awarded it to Aretha Franklin and B B King; or Ronald Reagan, whose picks included Frank Sinatra and Pearl Bailey?

The Heartbreak Hotel singer, who would be 83 years old today, was relatively discreet with his political opinions, once describing himself as an "entertainer" above all.

But some of Presley's actions – such as his 1970 visit with Republican President Richard Nixon, which he initiated – suggest he leaned towards the right.

During a 1972 interview at Madison Square Garden, a reporter asked the musician, who was drafted in 1957 and served in the US Army from 1958 to 1960: "Mr Presley, as you've mentioned your time in the service, what is your opinion of war protesters and would you today refuse to be drafted?"

Presley responded: "Honey, I'd just sooner keep my own personal views about that to myself, 'cause I'm just an entertainer and I'd rather not say."

In the same interview, he said he didn't have any aspirations "in politics or anything of that nature".

Another reporter asked: "Mr Presley, what do you think about Women's Liberation?"

After cracking a joke, Presley once again dodged the question, replying: "On social comments like this, I'd just sooner not make a comment."

Trump – who obtained five draft deferments during the Vietnam War, including one for a foot problem – has expressed respect for the military as part of his rhetoric, though he has also earned backlash after criticising late veteran Senator John McCain for being captured in Vietnam.

As for women's rights, the president (who once bragged about being able to "grab" women "by the p****" isn't a known defender of the cause and has considered the possibility of leaving abortion legislation up to individual states, rather than federal law.

The most political moment of the King's career was probably his meeting with Nixon on 21 December 1970.

He personally showed up at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to deliver a letter he had written to the president. In the missive, Presley said he wanted to give Nixon a gift and expressed interest in qualifying as a federal agent in the war on drugs, according to an online exhibit kept by the National Archives.

Presley, who thought he was a good candidate to do drug prevention due to his ability to reach people of all ages, ended up meeting Nixon later that same day and received a badge from the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.

He endeared himself to Nixon Aide Egil Krogh so much that Krogh later lamented the fact that there was never an opportunity to hire Presley to "work with the White House staff".

"I liked him a lot," Krogh said of Presley.

Following Nixon's death, the New York Times included more details about Presley's White House visit in a story questioning the Republican president's legacy.

During the meeting, Presley showed Nixon some of his law enforcement paraphernalia, "including badges from police departments in California, Colorado and Tennessee", the newspaper noted.

There have been some comparisons between Trump and Nixon; The Commercial Appeal, a local Memphis newspaper, likened Nixon's encounter with Presley to Trump's visit with Kanye West.

Trump and Nixon even partied together on one occasion in 1989, as previously reported by the New York Times.

Some, however, have argued that the two presidents aren't so similar, including Nixon's own former White House Counsel John Dean.

"Trump’s is making the long nightmare of Nixon’s Watergate seem like a brief idyllic daydream,' Dean tweeted earlier this month.

"History will treat Nixon’s moral failures as relatively less troubling than Trump’s sustained and growing decadence, deviousness and self-delusive behaviour. Nixon=corrupt; Trump=evil."

Presley's meeting with Trump also brought to the surface the musician's fervent patriotism – and apparent dislike of the Beatles.

"Presley indicated that he thought the Beatles had been a real force for anti-American spirit," the publication wrote.

"He said that the Beatles came to this country, made their money, and then returned to England where they promoted an anti-American theme."

Trump hasn't shied away from publicly criticising celebrities who have ruffled his feathers.

In recent years, he has fuelled feuds with Rosie O'Donnell, Anna Wintour, Stephen Curry, Meryl Streep, Chrissy Teigen, and Michael Moore.

The president has also referred to Democrats as "un-American", not unlike Presley did with the Beatles.

While the entertainment industry is often considered to be a predominantly liberal world, Presley – with his gusto for Nixon, his anti-drugs stance (which preceded his own battle with substance abuse), and his enthusiasm for law enforcement – appears to have held positions in contrast with most progressive ideals.

Given the musician's reluctance to take a strong political stance, it doesn't seem like not too much of a stretch to say he would likely have collected his medal from Trump without too much fuss.

====== 273 ========

CONOR MCGREGOR VS KHABIB PRESS CONFERENCE: WATCH VIDEO REPLAY AHEAD OF UFC LIGHTWEIGHT TITLE FIGHT

The final press conference ahead of Conor McGregor’s UFC title fight with Khabib Nurmagomedov didn’t go quite as planned in Las Vegas on Thursday evening.

McGregor was thirty minutes late to the presser, with reigning champion Khabib deciding against sticking around to trade insults with him.

Instead Khabib made a hasty exit after answering a handful of questions, with McGregor then appearing to promise he would “knock his nose into the nosebleeds” come Saturday night. Relive the best of the press conference below.

Khabib vs McGregor key points Khabib exited press conference before McGregor's arrival

The pair fight in Las Vegas for lightweight title on Saturday night

Relive the press conference below

What's the latest?

Conor McGregor believes he has spotted flaws in Khabib Nurmagomedov's fighting style and intends to "take his head off" in their showdown for the UFC lightweight title.

Their bout at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas this weekend has been billed as the biggest in the UFC's history and McGregor is looking to make a statement against the person who succeeded him as 155lb champion.

At the workouts open to the public at the Park Theater, McGregor thrilled those in attendance as he introduced his young son before settling into his routine, predictably focusing on his striking technique.

Afterwards he told the cheering audience: "Saturday night: You're in for a show, trust me on that. I'm going to take his head off. Trust me.

"(It will be a) devastating KO. (Nurmagomedov is) too easy to hit, too flat-footed, too predictable, I'm going to knock him clean out."

McGregor is returning to the UFC after a near two-year absence against Nurmagomedov, who will make the first defence of the title he won by beating late replacement Al Iaquinta in April.

The Irishman was relieved of the crown because of his hiatus from the octagon, having made a brief foray into boxing to challenge Floyd Mayweather in a highly lucrative contest in August last year.

Now he is back in mixed martial arts for a fight that is seen as a puncher versus a grappler, but McGregor is unfazed by his Russian opponent's gameplan.

He added: "I don't give a f*** about anything. Any wrestling, any technique, any anything. I'm coming for that man's head from the f****** bell.

"It's good to be back. Let's go do it. A proper fight, a proper, proper fight."

Nurmagomedov had earlier been given a hostile reception from a largely pro-McGregor crowd and appeared to cut his session short in order to remonstrate with his foe's supporters.

As the jeers continued, he insisted he would win them over, saying: "Three days. You're going to like me. I know you're going to love me."

The 30-year-old, who put a particular emphasis on his takedowns and wrestling during his programme on Wednesday afternoon, also questioned McGregor's pride in his Irish heritage.

McGregor mentioned in last month's press conference about how his ancestors fought the English empire and that his family name was banned for a century by King James.

Nurmagomedov, though, referenced McGregor's grandfather's time with the British Merchant Navy.

Nurmagomedov said: "These guys talk about (how) they fight English people but his grandfather worked with the English navy. Now you support (his grandson)? I'm going to change this on Saturday night.

"I have a question for Ireland. What about your language, what about your Irish language? Where's your language? What's wrong with your language?

"Are you guys right now with England, you guys change your language. Give me answer someone if you can. It's very interesting."

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 274 ========

ANTHONY JOSHUA REVEALS WHERE ALEXANDER POVETKIN RANKS IN TOUGHEST OPPONENTS – PRESS CONFERENCE AS IT HAPPENED

Before he can think about targeting Deontay Wilder’s WBC belt to complete his collection, Anthony Joshua must face a gruelling test against WBA mandatory challenger Alexander Povetkin, with the two Olympic champions going head to head at Wembley Stadium.

Many had expected Joshua to take on Wilder after defeating Joseph Parker in March, but instead he will defend his WBA (Super), IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight titles against Russia’s Povetkin.

It will be a stern test. Povetkin has lost just one of his 35 fights, losing on points to the great Wladimir Klitschko in October 2013. Since then he has won eight consecutive fights, including a knockout victory over David Price on the Joshua-Parker undercard. Ominously, he has never been stopped.

Meanwhile Joshua will be looking to extend his flawless professional record to 22-0 in his third fight at Wembley Stadium. Follow the press conference below:

Welcome to our coverage of Anthony Joshua vs Alexander Povetkin press conference in London. The Brit's WBA, IBF, WBO and IBO titles on the line at Wembley this weekend. The duo will speak for the final time before Saturday's must-watch clash at the final pre-fight press conference. We will have the latest right here. So without further ado, off we go. Before things get going, did you know that Joshua has claimed he's going through somewhat of a mid-life crisis? Yep, we found it hard to believe too... but he has his reasons. Anthony Joshua reveals he is battling a ‘mid-life crisis’ The undercard press conference gets underway shortly. All these fighters will talk, including David Price who was knocked out by Povetkin the last time Joshua fought. Full undercard announced so far: Luke Campbell vs Yvan Mendy Matty Askin vs Lawrence Okolie Sergey Kuzmin vs David Price Shakhram Giyasov vs Julio Laguna Dano Zaxo vs Tony Bilic Chris Kongo vs Salim Benrejb Anthony Joshua describes David Price as 'unquestionably the biggest puncher in the heavyweight division'. Price's fight was only announced earlier this month and gives him opportunity to try and push his name back up amongst the contenders of the heavyweight division. Defeat could see him pushed down to domestic level. David Price at York Hall "He's never been hit the way I'm going to hit him. This is potentially fight of the night. You don't want to blink. I can't lose, it's potentially life changing." David Price realises this is a fight that means everything to his career. "Thanks everyone for coming out. I have a lot of self belief because of the training I put in, the lifestyle I live. Week in, week out I'm working. Askin is a good fighter, I knew that before the fight was thought about being made. I know what kind of fight this is going to be. I look forward to it." Undefeated Lawrence Okolie isn't taking his British cruiserweight fight lightly. Lawrence Okolie warms up at York Hall "He possesses a lot of problems for me, it's a chance for me to prove I'm at the level I say I am. It's risky but it has its rewards and to do it on this scale is unbelievable." Matty Askin has tasted defeat on three occasions throughout his professional career but thinks he will defeat Okolie inside the distance. It's a big night for Luke Campbell - a WBC final eliminator against Yvan Mendy, who he was shocked by in a split decision back in 2015. "We know what he brings to the table," Campbell said on Mendy. The undercard talking is done - there will be some head to heads before we move onto the main event press conference at around 1pm. Joshua is notoriously late for these events, so if he doesn't turn up on time, stick with us. We promise he'll arrive... During this lull period, why not take a look at this? The man who has fought and lost to both, Carlos Takam, gives his opinion on the upcoming clash. Anthony Joshua vs Alexander Povetkin preview by the man who's fought both of them, Carlos Takam David Price and Sergey Kuzmin go head to head. Price is a big fan favourite and will have Wembley screaming his name. Whether he can produce the goods on Saturday night is to be seen. David Price and Sergey Kuzmin pose for a photo The unified heavyweight champion tweeted this earlier today, he's relaxed after what will have been a tough and long camp. The two fighters should be out inside the next 10 or so minutes. That's when things will start to get interesting. Until then, you can have my prediction for the fight. After showcasing his boxing skills and what he can do with his jab, Joshua has hinted that he will revert to his usual brash, knockout style, so fans will be in for some big hitting action. Povetkin won't be able to handle that and it'll tell, it could be an early knockout. The Russian will however keep his wit's about him and will probably keep away for a few rounds to try and work his way into the fight, the size difference won't let that happen of Joshua gets his way. I'm going for a Joshua knockout deep into the fight, around 8 or 9 rounds in. The guys over at GentingBet have pulled together this lovely infographic, with some quotes, information about the professional records of the two fighters and a little bit more. Lovely to whet your appetite. GentingBet infographic We should be getting underway any moment now, just waiting for the fighters to come out. Both men have arrived! A polite handshake to get things kicked off... Warren Buffer is currently doing his thing, getting people hyped about the world heavyweight title. "It is one of the most admired and revered titles in the world. Once a person has that title, they have it for life." "It's an absolute honour to be back at Wembley Stadium. The national stadium. Four world championship belts on the line, 80,000 people." Eddie Hearn doing his usual thing of hyping the fight up before handing over to Adam Smith, head of boxing at Sky Sports. Adam Smith poses the question of is Alexander Povetkin Joshua's second toughest opponent. "Yeah, definitely. Klitschko was a good challenger. We performed. Boxing won that night, we put on a good show. I'm expecting the same type of fight - skills apart, technique apart, we both have big hearts. We both dug deep against Klitschko and whoever is toughest will come out on top. "His strengths, I've worked against people have the same. A good fighter will always find his way." Anthony Joshua on Wembley Stadium "I love to fight. I love fight week, I can get my strength back. My body has been broken down and built back up like never before. This isn't new to me anymore, this is home." 1 2 Next

Please allow a moment for the blog to load.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 275 ========

SERENA WILLIAMS WORE A TUTU DURING THE US OPEN FOLLOWING 'BLACK PANTHER' CATSUIT BAN

Serena Williams made it clear during her first match at the US Open that she will not let a dress code dictate what she wears on the court - and people are praising the tennis star.

During her match on Monday, Williams wore a black and brown one-shouldered custom-designed tutu dress by designer and Off-White founder Virgil Abloh in collaboration with Nike.

The 36-year-old completed the outfit with compression fishnet tights and a pair of sparkly silver NikeCourt Flare sneakers as she won her match against Magda Linette.

Williams' latest fashion choice comes after French Open organisers and president of the French Tennis Federation Bernard Giudicelli, took offence to the Black Panther-inspired catsuit Williams wore previously, which the new mum said helps prevent blood clots.

“It will no longer be accepted,” Giudicelli had said of catsuits. “You have to respect the game and the place.”

On social media, where the tutu was a hit with fans, people applauded Williams for continuing to wear what she wants.

“Serena Williams was told she wasn’t allowed to wear her Black Panther catsuit back to the French Open because she had to ‘respect the game’. So she showed up in a tutu,” one person wrote.

Another said: “They didn’t let Serena Williams wear her catsuit. She came out in a tutu. Yes Queen.”

Despite the backlash following the French Open's new dress code, Williams had already planned to wear the Off-White dress to the US Open - and insists that her relationship with Giudicelli is “really amazing”.

“I feel like if and when, or if they know that some things are for health reasons, then there’s no way that they wouldn’t be okay with it. So I think it’s fine,” Williams said of the French Open controversy.

The tennis star did say, however, that she wouldn't be wearing the catsuit again - simply because "when it comes to fashion, you don't want to be a repeat offender".

According to Williams, who discussed her US Open dress with Vogue last month, her newest outfit choice made her feel “very strong and feminine.

​“I felt so feminine in the tutu, which is probably my favourite part of it. It really embodies what I always say: that you can be strong and beautiful at the same time,” she said.

Following the match, Abloh captioned a photo of Williams wearing the dress with: “Willing to design dresses for her for life.”

====== 276 ========

WHERE DO THE TURKEYS PARDONED BY THE PRESIDENT GO?

Following the bizarre American tradition that sees the president pardon a turkey each Thanksgiving, the turkeys go on to live a care-free life of luxury.

When the tradition of gifting presidents turkeys started years ago, the birds were typically sent to farms or zoos to live out their days.

In 2013, the turkeys were sent to their new home at Morven Park, the historic estate of former Virginia Governor Westmoreland Davis - where the 2014 and 2015 turkeys also went.

Now, however, the spared turkeys are sent to an enclosure at Virginia Tech called “Gobbler’s Rest,” according to the White House - where they get to frolic with other free turkeys.

At Gobbler’s Rest, located on the school’s campus in Blacksburg, Virginia, the lucky turkeys are cared for by veterinarians and students of Virginia Tech’s Animal and Poultry Sciences Department.

At their new home, the turkeys may be visited by the public - who can also learn about the “university’s teaching, research and outreach programs in animal and poultry sciences and veterinary medicine.”

Despite one turkey winning the title of official National Thanksgiving turkey each year, the runner-up turkey is also pardoned and sent to live with its companion.

This year’s pardoned turkeys Peas and Carrots will make their way to Virginia Tech once they’ve finished posing with President Trump - where they will join last year’s pardoned turkeys Wishbone and Drumstick.

Although most of the presidentially pardoned turkeys reside in Virginia, some of the turkeys have been sent to other states - including New Jersey, California and Florida.

====== 277 ========

THANKSGIVING 2018: WHEN IS THE HOLIDAY AND WHY DOES THE US CELEBRATE IT?

With the end of November nearing, Americans have started preparing their Thanksgiving menus - with the requisite turkeys and stuffing ingredients likely already purchased for the holiday which is still a few days away.

Apart from the food, arguably the main component of the day, the holiday is a beloved time of year when Americans come together to celebrate what they are thankful for - either with family or friends.

In America, Thanksgiving is a cultural holiday that symbolises peace, thankfulness, and the beginning of the holiday season.

What is Thanksgiving and where did it come from?

Thanksgiving is a national holiday in the United States celebrated in November.

The annual feast is in honour of the “first” Thanksgivings in America, in 1619 in Virginia, and in 1621, when colonists in Plymouth, Massachusetts, later known as the Pilgrims, shared a meal with the Wampanoag Indians, who were native to the land.

The later feast was in honour of the help the Pilgrims received from the Native Americans in cultivating crops and surviving their first harsh winter and it lasted three days.

Later, US Presidents including George Washington, John Adams and James Madison called for days of thanks throughout their presidencies.

However, it was not until 1863, during the Civil War, that President Abraham Lincoln declared a national Thanksgiving Day would be held each November to be celebrated by all of the country.

When is Thanksgiving?

Thanksgiving takes place each year on the fourth Thursday of November.

This year, Thanksgiving falls on November 22.

Why do Americans celebrate it and what do they do?

Although Thanksgiving may originally have had religious significance, the day has become a mostly secular holiday.

Most Americans consider the holiday a day to gather and express their thanks through food, family, and football - with multiple NFL teams playing on the holiday.

During some Thanksgiving celebrations, people write down what they are thankful for and then read aloud from the pieces of paper.

In schools, children learn about the holiday by colouring in pictures of Pilgrims and turkeys and the Mayflower, the ship the colonists arrived on.

The day is also celebrated with the annual Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.

The world’s largest Thanksgiving parade includes giant balloons of cartoons that float above the city sky, as well as marching bands and dancers.

Following Thanksgiving, the month-long shopping for the winter holidays begins, with Black Friday kicking off the season.

Where is it celebrated?

Thanksgiving is one of the the most important cultural holidays in America, however, Canada also has its own Thanksgiving Day, on the second Monday in October, and Liberia celebrates Thanksgiving on the first Thursday of November.

What do people eat on Thanksgiving?

In America, turkeys are an integral part of Thanksgiving Day, with most dinners including the bird.

An estimated 46m turkeys are killed annually for the holiday, however, one turkey is pardoned each year by the president.

But Americans who don't eat meat or follow a vegan lifestyle don't have to worry about missing out, as there are numerous vegan and vegetarian Thanksgiving options.

Americans also indulge in Thanksgiving favourites such as yams topped with marshmallows, stuffing, cranberry sauce, cornbread, and pumpkin pie.

====== 278 ========

THANKSGIVING 2018: VEGAN AND VEGETARIAN ALTERNATIVES TO CLASSIC HOLIDAY MEALS

Thanksgiving is a food-focussed occasion, with friends and families gathering to gorge on traditional dishes such as roast turkey, stuffing, sweet potato and pumpkin pie.

For those who follow vegan or vegetarian diets, it can therefore be quite difficult to navigate the dinner table when the annual harvest holiday comes around.

Fortunately, there are numerous vegan and vegetarian alternatives to the traditional animal-based offerings.

From lentil loaf to pumpkin pie, here are some of the best vegan and vegetarian recipes for you to try this Thanksgiving:

Starters

Stuffed mini pumpkins

Make the most of the proclivity of pumpkins that have been grown over the autumn with this inventive recipe by Tieghan Gerard, creator of Half Baked Harvest.

In her recipe, Gerard stuffs the pumpkins with nutty wild rice and shredded Brussels sprouts, before roasting them in the oven.

Gerard recommends baking the pumpkins for around 10 to 20 minutes before serving them hot for all the family to enjoy.

Grain-filled soup

For a healthy soup with a burst of flavour, try this spicy grain soup recipe by chef Mary Ellen Diaz, from the First Slice soup kitchen.

This soup recipe combines ingredients including barley, brown rice, bulgur, garlic, chilies, shiitake mushrooms and black beans for a healthy concoction.

Arugula and wild rice salad

Kathryne Taylor, creator of popular vegetarian food blog Cookie and Kate, has created a recipe for an arugula and wild rice salad that will provide your Thanksgiving guests with a refreshing and tasty start to their meal.

This salad features ingredients including wild rice, almonds, arugula, cranberries, crumbled feta and honey syrup.

Mains

Butternut squash risotto

Butternut squash is a quintessentially autumnal ingredient, perfectly apt for the Thanksgiving table.

This Everyday Food recipe shared by Martha Stewart takes 45 minutes to make and combines Arborio rice with garlic cloves, olive oil, fresh thyme, white wine, vegetable broth and butternut squash.

Jumbo stuffed pasta shells

Angela Liddon, founder of Oh She Glows, specialises in creating inventive and delicious plant-based recipes.

This recipe for pasta shells stuffed with an assortment of vegetables and fresh herbs was inspired by Terry Walters, author of the Clean Food cookbook.

Liddon uses tofu to create a vegan mixture that tastes like ricotta, which she uses to stuff the pasta shells.

Glazed lentil, walnut and apple loaf

Another recipe that Liddon has adapted from Walters is the glazed lentil walnut and apple loaf, a dish that will provide Thanksgiving guests with a treat that's both savoury and sweet.

Liddon combines ingredients including uncooked green lentils, finely chopped walnuts, garlic cloves, diced sweet onions and raisins among others to create the unconventional loaf.

Desserts

Vegan pumpkin pie

It wouldn't be Thanksgiving without a serving of pumpkin pie.

Jessica Hylton-Leckie, founder of vegan food blog Jessica in the Kitchen, has devised a vegan pumpkin pie recipe that's sugar-free, gluten-free and made with all natural ingredients.

Cranberry apple crisp

Make the most of fresh autumn fruits with this innovative vegan and gluten-free cranberry apple crisp recipe by Jessica in the Kitchen.

The dessert dish is best served warm with a dollop of dairy-free ice cream added on top.

Vegan pumpkin cheesecake swirl brownies

These vegan pumpkin cheesecake swirl brownies look mouth-wateringly good and are likely to delight friends and family galore.

Hylton-Leckie uses a combination of vegan cream cheese, pumpkin puree, coconut sugar, pumpkin pie spice, vanilla extract and an egg yolk substitute for the pumpkin cheesecake swirl portion of the recipe.

The vegan brownie is made from vegan chocolate chips, oat flour, sea salt, baking soda, flax eggs, coconut sugar, coconut oil, water and vanilla extract.

====== 279 ========

HOW TO EXPLORE ERNEST HEMINGWAY’S CUBA

“Ambos Mundos was where Hemingway’s love affair with Cuba all started,” said Esperanza, the custodian of the legendary author’s former hotel room in Havana. I had unwittingly picked up Cuba’s Hemingway trail right at its source – a fraying Art Deco hotel in the heart of the Unesco-listed old quarter.

From behind Hemingway’s typewriter in room 511, where he wrote three novels standing up because of an old knee injury from the war, I could see the terracotta rooftops sliding off towards the old harbour, with the currents of the “great blue river”, as he called the Gulf Stream, threading through the ocean beyond.

I had travelled to Cuba’s capital Havana on the eve of the city’s half-millennia birthday – the city was founded on its present site in 1519 and will celebrate its 500th anniversary next year – to hunt down the legacy of the literary giant who became an honorary Habanero affectionately nicknamed “Papa”. Ernest Hemingway first visited Cuba in 1928. It was only for two days, but it was enough time for him to fall in love with it. From books such as The Old Man and the Sea to Islands in the Stream, this became the country of Hemingway’s imagination and one where the author lived on and off for more than 30 years.

In room 511 I observed his Louis Vuitton travelling trunk, his size 11 shoes, and a mini exhibition of artworks given to him personally by the likes of Picasso. Hemingway’s regular route from the hotel would take him around the corner to La Bodeguita del Medio, a bar tucked into a narrow street that serves up his much-loved mojitos by the half-dozen. Then he would visit El Floridita to down daiquiris en route to the Sevilla hotel, where he slept. It’s a straight walk down Obispo street from the hotel, so what better way to walk in the legend’s shoes than by doing a Hemingway bar crawl?

Papa’s bar crawl

Outside, Havana’s 500-year-old streets smelled of wet dog as they steam-dried from a tropical downpour, and I could hear the cacophony of percussive music that is a signature of this soulful city echoing up the alleyways. Finding a perch at La Bodeguita’s little bar, I watched the barman Jorge whip up a batch of mojitos with lime juice, white rum and fresh mint. Cigar smoke mingled with music in the cramped but colourful space, and graffiti was scrawled over every inch of surface. The author’s famous tribute (“My mojito in La Bodeguita, my daiquiri in El Floridita”) is framed above the bar – Havana’s most famous barfly made sure to leave his mark.

El Floridita’s double frozen daiquiris go down easy. In his book Islands in the Stream, Hemingway says they “had no taste of alcohol and felt, as you drank them, the way downhill glacier skiing feels running through powder snow”. He held court here at the end of the bar with the likes of Spencer Tracey and Errol Flynn. Today his seat is still taken by a life-sized statue, and you can still order the special Papa Doble – Hemingway’s variation on the daiquiri with a double shot of rum and no sugar.

Feeling a little light-headed, I moved on to another Hemingway haunt, Sloppy Joes, a large airy bar dating to 1917 and half-way between El Floridita and the Moorish-style Sevilla hotel. It’s easy to see why writers like Hemingway would revel in Havana’s streets. A magical place full of Dickensian intrigue, its candy-coloured colonial buildings are seemingly propped up with sticks; pensioners dance to “Guantanamera”; neighbours gossip over wrought-iron balconies; and gaping doorways reveal tattoo parlours, barber shops and furniture workshops.

Made in Cuba

Tributes to the author can be found throughout Havana, right down to the modern Marina Hemingway, where the annual Hemingway International Billfishing Tournament is held.

In 1939, Hemingway settled in a permanent home in the nearby town of San Francisco de Paula, a house found by his third wife, the renowned journalist Martha Gellhorn. After Cuba’s 1959 revolution, it is said the US ambassador visited Hemingway’s home three times before the author could be persuaded to leave. He left intending to return and, much like Cuba, his house and all its contents have been frozen in time ever since.

I spent a morning exploring the sun-dappled grounds of the Finca Vigia, or “Lookout Farm”, and its white watchtower, politely taking turns to peer into windows and doorways with a group of US tourists fresh off a cruise ship dwarfing Havana’s harbour. Americans can now visit Cuba to do cultural activities and this group were thrilled to glimpse through the looking glass. “We saw a 1950s diner on the way here, and a whole bunch of classic Chevys – it’s like a living museum,” said one.

The house says a lot about Hemingway. The shelves are stuffed with books, a record collection reveals a love for jazz and classical music, the walls are adorned with taxidermy trophies from Hemingway’s infamous hunting trips, a drinks cabinet still harbours bottles of gin, and in the bedroom is the typewriter at standing height where he worked on For Whom the Bell Tolls, one of his most successful books.

When he wasn’t writing, Hemingway liked to fish for marlin and his sturdy boat, Pilar, is dry-docked next to the empty swimming pool in the Finca’s tropical grounds. He would board the Pilar in the nearby fishing village of Cojimar, a serene cove where he found inspiration for The Old Man and the Sea.

In fact, he dedicated his Nobel Prize for Literature to the town: “This is a prize that belongs in Cuba, because my work was conceived and created in Cuba, with my people of Cojimar where I’m a citizen.” After he died, the locals donated propellers from their boats to be turned into a metal bust of Hemingway, which I found sheltering under a brilliant blue pavilion next to the tiny 17th-century fort.

Islands in the stream

Hemingway had a magnificent stomping ground to patrol for marlin in the slip of the 12-mile-wide Gulf Stream on Cuba’s cay-strewn north coast, while his wife Martha preferred to snorkel among the islands’ pristine coral reefs. I set off to explore a few of them, including Cayo Jutias, Cayo Levisa and Cayo Paraiso by boat.

To break the journey, I stopped off at the cigar Shangri-La of Vinales, a two-hour drive away in Cuba’s wild west, to hike among its thatched tobacco barns, russet fields, strange hump-backed mogotes and bat-haunted caves. On a mangrove-encrusted shore, I boarded a boat to cross the shallow straits to Cayo Levisa. It was here, between these idyllic islets of platinum sand and tufted palms, that Hemingway hunted for the big fish. I joined a Club de Buceo scuba boat for an expedition out to the reefs where I hovered above clouds of iridescent fish and plumes of pink and purple coral swaying in the currents.

Back in Havana at sunset I joined the locals on the Malecón esplanade, grabbing a cone of fried banana from a snack cart and watching anglers toss lines into the frothing sea. As the sun cast the 1950s seawall in an orange glow, I reflected that following Hemingway’s footsteps in Cuba had equated to an incredible city and beach break, revealing a country little changed from the one Papa knew so well. No wonder he never wanted to leave.

Travel essentials

Cuba Holidays has seven nights’ B&B staying at Hostal Plazuela del Angel in Havana and Villa Vista al Valle in Viñales from £899, including Gatwick-Havana flights with Virgin Atlantic. It also offers its pre-arranged The Old Man and the City tour, covering some of Hemingway’s Havana haunts, and excursions to Cayo Levisa.

====== 280 ========

NEW YORK HOTELS: THE 7 BEST PLACES FOR A STAYCATION

As a native New Yorker, I tend to think of New York City hotels as shimmering Xanadus that I enter only when friends come to town; or for the the occasional special occasion. Rarely do I get to holiday in my own hometown. So where to stay when you want a break from the everyday? Whether you want to explore uptown or downtown, surround yourself with classic elegance or millennial chic, or experience New York’s newest or vintage architecture, there’s a unique city hotel that will transport you to another place – even if you can still hear the F train rumbling by.

Neighbourhood: SoHo

Nobody does quirky English luxury better than this SoHo star, a fixture of the downtown firmament that is coming up on its 10th anniversary. Set back from the street and with a sizeable courtyard planted with fruit trees and other greenery, this hotel cocoons its guests from the busy streets outside. This cosy feeling is helped immensely by co-owner (along with husband Tim) and designer Kit Kemp’s unerring ability to layer elaborate wallpaper, embroidery, fabrics and soft furnishings in the 86 rooms and suites – the woman is a literal genius when it comes to headboards – that somehow manage to combine a country house vibe with city views. One second-floor suite even has its own native wildflower meadow outside French doors, planted with butterfly weed, sumac and coneflowers.

The public areas such as The Crosby Bar and the Drawing Room are stuffed with oversized artworks of dogs and comfortable sofas and all-day tea and coffee. Plus there’s the spectacular afternoon champagne tea, and right outside, all that glam SoHo shopping. It’s not like you’re sending your credit card on holiday, is it?

Doubles from $695 (£540)

firmdalehotels.com​

Neighbourhood: Columbus Circle

This paean to modern luxury just as successfully sequesters guests away from the city, but by keeping them high above it – the 35th floor and above to be specific. Located at the southwest corner of Central Park at Columbus Circle, this sophisticated aerie is in the Time Warner Centre, which also houses the Jazz at Lincoln Centre and the new Bluebird London. The 244 tasteful rooms and suites have views of the park, the skyline, upper Manhattan and the Hudson River; as does the duplex spa with its six treatment rooms, 75-foot lap pool, hammam and hydrotherapy pool.

Sharing those incredible views are chef and master of molecular gastronomy Grant Achatz’s two lounge-bar-restaurants The Aviary and The Office on the 35th floor – if you’re feeling homesick, try the Wake and Bake, a rye-based cocktail served inside an “aroma pillow” that gives off the scent of a New York breakfast: coffee, OJ, and – what else? – bagel.

Doubles from $995 (£765)

mandarinoriental.com

Neighbourhood: Upper East Side

On the other side of the park, this residential-style hotel embodies Upper East Side elegance and white-glove service. A recent redesign, overseen by co-owner Dina De Luca Chartouni, brought together London architect Mark Pinney and American interior designer Michael S Smith, for a fresh look in the lobby with French furniture and a David Hockney lithograph, the intimate Club Room, and a new marble staircase and entry to the Pembroke Room where afternoon tea is served.

The biggest change was the debut of the instant-hit Majorelle restaurant from restaurateur Charles Masson, formerly of establishment favourite La Grenouille, who also is known for his spectacular and elaborate floral arrangements. But the many discreet charms remain untouched: such as homemade jam for breakfast and the wood-burning fireplaces in some of the 74 rooms and suites, where you can while away the evening under a cashmere throw in perfect comfort.

Doubles from $885 (£690)

lowellhotel.com

Neighbourhood: Williamsburg

What do you get outside Manhattan? The answer, as every New Yorker knows, is square footage and views – oh those views. Take a trip across the East River to Williamsburg where the designers of this 23-story hotel took advantage of low-rise north Brooklyn and gave every one of the 183 rooms a balcony and floor-to-ceiling windows. In summer, the place to be is by the Vale Pool, at 60 feet, it’s the longest in Brooklyn (square footage, remember?).

But anytime of the year, the sights from the 22nd-floor Westlight bar give new meaning the word panoramic – the entire sweep of Manhattan’s East Side is there, plus most of Brooklyn besides and a bit of the harbour beyond. More earthly pleasures can be found at the ground-floor Leuca from Andrew Carmellini, one of the city’s top chefs who seems to have found the magic formula of what New Yorkers want when they go out to eat. Join them for a bowl of lemony spaghetti alla ricci or rich squash agnolotti.

Doubles from $335 (£250)

thewilliamvale.com

Neighbourhood: Lower Manhattan

What are the chances that James M Farnsworth, architect of Temple Court – completed in 1883, the same year as the Brooklyn Bridge­, just a block away – had a time machine and said “look lads one day this atrium is going to be Instagrammed many thousands of times, so it had better be spectacular”? Social media aside, this early skyscraper near City Hall was restored in the 21st century and now its nine-story Victorian atrium lined with ornate, cast-iron railings and brackets is definitely the main attraction, whether you’re looking up or down. Sip a vintage cocktail in the verdigris-coloured Bar Room underneath it or stay in one of the 287 offices-turned-guest-rooms off of it and you’ll feel in tune with old New York.

Doubles from $499 (£380)

thebeekman.com​

Neighbourhood: Times Square

When it comes to old New York and architecture, it doesn’t get any more bold-faced or historical than Stanford White, part of the McKim, Mead and White firm that built famed beaux art beauties such as the Washington Square Arch and the Century Club. Originally opened as the Lambs, a theatrical club, the landmarked hotel is steps from the Broadway palaces on West 44th Street in the Theatre District, and the Lambs Club bar is the preferred pre- or post-theatre drink spot for many locals. The 76 rooms and suites are decorated in a sumptuous art deco style by designer Thierry Despont that evoke the days of transatlantic crossings and Louis Vuitton luggage, with curving cabinets and closets wrapped in faux textured leather and nightstands that resemble deep steamer trunk trays.

Doubles from $885 (£690)

thechatwalny​.com

Neighbourhood: Greenwich

Downtown in Tribeca, Robert De Niro’s brick boutique hotel is a haven of no-expense-spared, Tuscany-meets-Japan aesthetic, truly a place apart. The interior courtyard is planted with pots of ferns, creeping ivy and other shade-loving greenery, while the lobby is fitted out with reclaimed oak beams and leaded glass. Each of the 88 rooms are individually styled, with tiles from Morocco or silk rugs from Tibet; but they really went the extra mile, or rather 16,000 miles, with the Shibui Spa on the lower level. A 250-year-old bamboo farmhouse was shipped over from a village near Kyoto and traditional Japanese craftsmen installed it in the spa where it houses the lantern-lit pool.

Most of the common areas are for guests only, so the parade of movie stars and other celebs who stay here are assured their privacy; but the public can dine at the hotel’s restaurant, Locanda Verde, another Italian-inspired neighbourhood joint from chef Andrew Carmellini.

Doubles from $795 (£610)

thegreenwichhotel.com

====== 281 ========

HOW BAKU IS EMERGING AS AN ARTS DESTINATION

“Man is endowed with reason and the power to create, so that he may increase that which is given to him,” reads the line from Anton Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya. Translated from the original Russian, the line is projected onto the wall in English and Azeri, but delivered in Japanese by an actor in the Kyoto-based Chiten Theatre. The stage is set with a baby grand piano wrapped in cellophane; one actor is wearing six inch platform Oxfords and another is standing on his head.

The production is part of the MAP Festival in Baku, Azerbaijan, and we’re in a converted ship maintenance warehouse on the Caspian Sea, the main venue of the YARAT Contemporary Art Space.

It’s not the type of performance you may associate with the Caucasus region, known for carpets, vast oil reservoirs and the trendy city of Tbilisi in Georgia. But Azerbaijan is working to change that, using its petro-wealth to position its capital Baku as an international centre for the arts and architecture: a Dubai on the Caspian. The injection of culture is an attempt to draw tourists to the country and revitalise the arts after the traumatic fall of the Soviet Union.

Well-publicised festivals with international headliners and flamboyant grandscale architecture are examples of this push. These are funded by government and corporate sponsors, who are betting that a vibrant grassroots arts scene can develop in an incubator created by these headliner projects.

The MAP Festival has more than doubled in scope since 2017, its inaugural year. This year’s event featured 16 shows and 13 productions from companies and artists hailing from all over the world. YARAT raised the profile of the MAP Festival by timing the 9 November opening to coincide with the heavily publicised launch of a solo installation by the artist Pedro Gómez-Egaña.

Born in Colombia but based in Norway, Gómez-Egaña was motivated to bring his work to Azerbaijan by the “possibility and proportion” of the YARAT exhibition space. He was also inspired by the vision of YARAT’s energetic artistic director Suad Garayeva Maleki. Prior to meeting Maleki, “Baku was not on my radar at all”, says Gómez-Egaña.

Founded in 2011 by Aida Mahmudova, a Central Saint Martins graduate and niece of Azerbaijan’s first lady, YARAT was originally a collective for local artists. Since then, the collective has morphed into a not-for-profit non-governmental organisation with “more financing and structure”, says Garayeva Maleki over green tea in her office. Support from the government, she says, is limited to the main exhibition space – the converted industrial warehouse where many of MAP’s theatre productions were staged this year.

The Azerbaijani government supports other cultural initiatives, including the Baku Jazz Centre (and its annual festival), the Azerbaijan Carpet Museum and large-scale architectural works like Zaha Hadid’s controversial Heydar Aliyev Centre. The carpet museum, designed by the Austrian architect Franz Janz, is shaped like a giant rolled-up carpet. “Public arts are supported by the government; they embellish the city,” says Garayeva Maleki.

But is the art scene in Baku more style than substance? Perhaps: Gómez-Egaña describes Baku as a “city of facades” where attendees of art events have little attention for the work itself. After all, the Heydar Aliyev Centre, as well as the three Baku Flame Towers, appear to emphasise exterior panache over what’s on display inside.

But Dubai, now the undisputed contemporary art capital of the Middle East, was a desert backwater 30 years ago. Azerbaijan has had fewer than 20 years to recover from the traumatic aftermath of perestroika and the breakup of the Soviet Union. “For 20 years it was survival mode, we had coups d’etat every few years. It was a horrible, crazy collapse. All the artists had to stop working and do whatever they could to feed their families,” says Garayeva Maleki.

Part of YARAT’s mandate is to fan the dormant flame of homegrown arts in the country, and help young Azeri artists find their identity. Half of YARAT’s temporary artist residencies are reserved for Azeri artists, who are mentored by a group of Azeri permanent residents. The Artim Project Space, a small gallery in old Baku’s warren of streets and alleys, is well suited to this younger generation. This month, the space features the Shy Boy of the Pink Future installation by 26-year-old Agil Abdullayev, a collection which reckons with identity and otherness in the social media age.

“Art can always be a way to do some city branding,” says Pedro Gómez-Egaña. “But one shouldn’t underestimate what these kinds of opportunities make room for. There are interesting visions, and people who manage to show challenging work, that builds audiences and builds practices.”

Six must-visit art institutions in Baku

YARAT contemporary art space

A former ship maintenance warehouse converted into a gargantuan, modular space which stages installations, workshops and theatre performances.

YARAT Painting Museum

Adjacent to the contemporary art space, the painting museum features fascinating work by Azerbaijan’s cadre of Soviet-influenced painters working in the mid-20th century.

Artim Project Space

Smack in the middle of the Old City, this cosy space managed by YARAT hosts experimental installations and other work by youthful Azerbaijani artists.

Heydar Aliyev Centre

This staggering-in-scale Zaha Hadid masterpiece is catnip for Instagrammers.

YAY Gallery

This YARAT-managed space in the old city features contemporary Azeri photographers whose work focuses on a modernising Azerbaijan.

Azerbaijan Carpet Museum

Not as far from contemporary art as you might think, the carpet museum features a series of amazing carpets woven with images of oil derricks. The building itself is also shaped like a rolled-up carpet. It’s delightfully on the nose.

Travel essentials

Getting there

Turkish Airlines flies from London to Baku, with a stop in Istanbul, from around £330.

====== 282 ========

DON'T LET THE RUSSIAN POISONINGS PUT YOU OFF VISITING SALISBURY

“I thought this would be a quiet job,” says Marie Thomas, smiling ruefully as she swirls the cup of tea in front of her.

“I used to be a TV exec and I thought it was all a bit stressful. Little did I know…” she trails off for a moment.

When you hear her job title, it’s easy to understand why Marie might feel shortchanged – she’s the PR account manager at Salisbury cathedral.

Before this year, it was probably a lovely gig; busy, sure, but straightforward. Previous press releases involved nesting peregrine falcons and silent discos. But 2018 has pushed the cathedral, and the city of Salisbury itself, to breaking point. Everyone I speak to laments the lack of visitors since two separate poisonings caused by suspected Russian agents took place here in March and June (like something straight out of a Bond film).

Then, just as the furore was beginning to die down, someone attempted to make off with the cathedral’s copy of the Magna Carta, smashing the priceless document’s case in with a hammer (like something straight out of a Dan Brown novel). It’s been quite a year.

Geoff Cain, owner of local tour company Salisbury, Stonehenge and Sarum Tours, says demand dropped by 60 per cent at the height of the crisis, while footfall to the cathedral was down by around 20 per cent at one point. This despite its 123m spire, famously referenced by the prime suspects in the novichok poisoning case during an interview with RT, in which they claimed to have been visiting Salisbury simply as tourists.

“It’s famous for its clock, the first one ever created in the world, which is still working,” the pair added of the cathedral. “We were just taking in the English gothic [style]. Nobody shows that part.”

The internet went nuts over the bewildering explanation of their visit, but the cathedral is an undeniably beautiful building – as we quickly discover on a tour. Our guide Chris’s passion for the place is infectious. “Humour me, please, and don’t look to your right until I tell you,” he says excitedly, leading us towards the rear of the cathedral.

“Wait for it… Now, turn around!” We’re standing back and centre, the whole of the building laid out in front of us, its majestic arches reaching heavenwards. It’s an awe-inspiring prospect – but not the best one. That’s up a spiral staircase, which Chris climbs with sprightly aplomb.

“Look at how beautiful that is,” he sighs from our higher perch. “I just can’t get over it.”

The cathedral has more than 700 volunteers like him, each compelled to share their gifts here for the sheer love of it. Emily the librarian is on the payroll, but she crackles with a similar energy as she shows us some of the rarer books in her collection. The Magna Carta is still off limits after last month’s attempted theft, but she lovingly turns the pages of the cathedral cartulary – a book of important documents that have been copied, much like an early form of backing up – to find a copy of England’s most famous charter. It’s in Latin, of course, and therefore totally indecipherable to me; but still, it feels thrilling to touch the same soft, yellowing pages that were hand written more than 800 years ago.

The cathedral isn’t the only reason the poisoning suspects gave for visiting this attractive city though. The whole place is dripping with medieval architecture – not that you’d always know it from street level.

“What’s amazing about Salisbury is that it’s not a museum, it’s a living, breathing city,” Blue Badge guide Sue tells us as we stroll through the quaint city centre, the cobbled streets and market squares soon to be given some extra dazzle when the Christmas lights are switched on later that evening. “There are all these incredible 13th and 14th century buildings – but they’re still used as shops.”

She shows us some gems we’d never have guessed were there: outdoor-wear store Cotswold is housed in a hall house dating from 1306 with traditional wattle and daub on display on the first floor; the local Odeon still has its original 14th century beams and stained glass after it was restored by Augustus Pugin, co-builder of the Houses of Parliament, in the 1800s.

Even bed, breakfast and lunch come with a side of history. The previous night was spent in the Red Lion, supposedly “Europe’s oldest purpose-built hotel”, while I hoovered up an excellent fish pie at The Haunch of Venison, probably the city’s oldest hostelry.

But none of it can compete with the area’s most ancient – and most famous – landmark. Just half an hour down the road sits the Neolithic stone circle to end all Neolithic stone circles. And Stonehenge doesn’t seem to be suffering from the novichok effect – far from it. Receiving coachloads of tourists every day, the attraction is celebrating 100 years since it was given over to public ownership. More than 1.5 million visitors flock here every year, resulting in the flip side of the tourism coin: how to welcome people without being overwhelmed? How to cope with demand without endangering the site itself?

The visitor centre, which opened five years ago, has definitely helped, providing a focal point and a space to learn more – but crucially one that is a good distance away from the henge. Here, a permanent exhibition explaining more about how people would have lived at the time the monument was built sits alongside revolving displays, with the current one on the UK’s connection to Europe created in collaboration with the British Museum. The stones are 2km down the road, accessible via a shuttle service included with the admission price, or on foot.

“We try to encourage people to walk,” says Susan Greaney, a senior properties historian with English Heritage. “It helps to get a sense of what England is all about. We want people to stay longer, to really explore the site, rather than just getting a selfie with the stones and leaving.”

Slow tourism is the name of the game in these parts – Stonehenge already encourages visitors to hang around and find out more at two local museums, Wiltshire Museum in Devizes and Salisbury Museum. The Great West Way, a recently launched touring route running from London to Bristol via Wiltshire, motivates tourists to slacken their pace.

Heading back to Salisbury’s pretty streets for a last spot of shopping at the city’s independent boutiques, including lingering over lust-worthy homewares, artwork and jewellery at the Fisherton Mill gallery, I can only hope that it works.

Because despite the wildly implausible, tragic events of 2018, this is a city worth savouring, enjoying, loitering in. A city with rich history that far outstrips recent events. A city that deserves much more than being relegated to a punchline in a topical joke.

(But do go and see that 123m cathedral spire. You won’t regret it.)

Travel essentials

Doubles at the Red Lion from £85, room only.

Stonehenge admission costs £17.50.

====== 283 ========

CHRISTMAS FLIGHTMARE: THE KEY HIGH-PRESSURE DATES AT AIRPORTS

Friday 21 December will be the busiest day of the winter at most of Britain’s top airports: that is the conclusion from an exclusive survey by The Independent.

Five of the top eight airports – Heathrow, Manchester, Edinburgh, Birmingham and Glasgow – predict the last working day for many people will also be the busiest for travellers.

Well over 100,000 passengers will fly out of the UK’s biggest airport, Heathrow – at a rate of 100 per minute.

At Gatwick and Stansted, Sunday 23 December will be the busiest date, while only at Luton is the highest-pressure day after Christmas: the peak is on 28 December.

The festive getaway looks like stretching longer than ever, too, with the peak arrivals day for London’s main holiday airports – Gatwick, Luton and Stansted – not until 6 January 2019.

Birmingham and Glasgow predict the same date will have the longest lines for passport control as holidaymakers head home.

Heathrow airport’s busiest homecoming day will be 2 January. Manchester and Edinburgh both have peak arrivals before the New Year: Manchester on 21 December, which will include many British expatriates returning home for Christmas, and Edinburgh on 28 December as the crowds touch down for the Hogmanay street party.

The eight airports are those in the class handling 10 million or more passengers a year.

Almost all the airports are predicting record crowds for Christmas and New Year, with both Luton and Edinburgh preparing for a 12 per cent increase over the same spell a year ago.

Gatwick airport, which has just reported a rolling annual total of 46 million passengers, expects 7.7 per cent more travellers than a year ago.

Europe’s biggest budget airline, Ryanair, said Saturday 22 December will be its busiest, with almost 400,000 passengers. In common with other low-cost carriers, it does not fly on Christmas Day.

But Birmingham airport says it will handle 41 per cent more passengers on Christmas Day than it did in 2017, with over 11,000 passengers passing through. On New Year’s Day it will handle almost 26,000, 11 per cent up on 1 January 2018.

The most popular destinations vary sharply between airports; for the Scottish hubs, London is the main target. But Amsterdam, Dublin and Dubai make frequent appearances in the top five.

All of them have flights from all eight airports, except that Luton does not have a link with Dubai.

In Heathrow’s top five, New York and Hong Kong also feature. From Gatwick, Barcelona and Geneva stand out. And from Manchester, the other key destinations are Tenerife and Paris.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 284 ========

BLACK FRIDAY FLIGHT DEALS: FLY DIRECT FROM UK TO THE UNITED STATES FROM £255 RETURN

Every so often, Jack Sheldon from Jack’s Flight Club selects a flight deal from the UK for Independent readers that you can’t afford to miss. This week: return flights to the US from £160.

As part of the seasonal sales we’re seeing great reductions on direct flights to the US. United Airlines has included routes to New York from Manchester and Edinburgh, as well as popular destinations Houston and San Francisco from London. Norwegian rounds off your options from its Gatwick hub with reasonably priced flights to Austin and Denver, among others.

There are loads of options to get you across the pond with no time wasted by unnecessary stopovers.

How to book

Although the best fares here are with two different airlines, they’re booked in a very similar way. First, head to Google Flights and enter your chosen departure and destination airports.

I recommend adding a filter for nonstop flights only. Doing this allows Google Flights to highlight the best dates in green for you once you click on the calendar tool. Then click on the departure date and the handy calendar tool will load all the best dates for your route (highlighted in green).

Once you’ve selected your flights for each leg of the journey on your chosen dates, you’ll be presented with a link to book the flight directly on United or Norwegian’s website. If your journey is with Norwegian, you can enter the code “EVERYROUTE18” to get roughly £15 taken off the price.

Flight options from the UK and Ireland

Return flights from Manchester or Edinburgh with United

New York City (EWR) – £233

Return flights from Dublin with Norwegian

New York City (EWR) – £180

Providence (PVD) – £160

Return flights from London Heathrow with United

Chicago (ORD) – £264

Houston (IAH) – £266

New York City (NYC) – £264

San Francisco (SFO) – £272

Washington DC (IAD) – £294

Return flights from London Gatwick with Norwegian

Austin (AUS) – £285

Boston (BOS) – £225

Chicago (ORD) – £226

Denver (DEN) – £269

Las Vegas (LAS) – £265

New York City (NYC) – £245

San Francisco (SFO) – £272

When to fly

January to May 2019 (The cheapest dates vary somewhat by route, but are all scattered around the first half of next year).

When to book

These fares should last a few more days, probably until Monday 26 November.

Pro tips

For roughly the same price, you can also explore two cities in one go by selecting a “multi-city” journey. Simply input one destination city on the outbound flight and a different one on the return. Why not go and see New York and Boston or Las Vegas and San Francisco in one go?

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 285 ========

PARIS TAXI DRIVER WHO SCAMMED TOURISTS OUT OF €200 JAILED FOR EIGHT MONTHS

A Paris taxi driver who was filmed demanding €247 from a couple and refusing to let them out until they paid has been sentenced to eight months in prison.

Two Thai tourists posted a video online showing the man demanding the eye-watering fare after he drove them from Charles de Gaulle Airport to the city, despite the fact this journey is set at a flat rate of no more than €55.

The clip, which showed him driving around without stopping while the couple phoned the police, quickly went viral online, used as a cautionary tale for tourists to ensure they get in a legitimate, licensed Paris taxi.

The police found the man who featured in the video through his registration and licence plate details, which are on display in the footage, reports Le Parisien.

The man, identified as Enock C., was charged with extortion by violence, threat or coercion, as well as for illegally practising as a taxi driver, on Thursday 22 November. He was sentenced to one year in prison, including a four-month suspended sentence, without a warrant.

Enock, resident of Saint-Gratien, tried to explain his actions to the court, responding to the question of how much he thought the journey was worth: “I do not know. It’s the application I’m using that decides.”

The 25-year-old defendant claimed he never stopped the tourists from getting out of the car and that they left without paying after protracted discussions and negotiations.

However, video evidence disputes his claim, showing him saying: “You pay, you go. You no pay, you no go.”

Enock said he did not find the fare expensive and claimed that he had not been on duty at the time of the offence.

One of the victims of the scam, Charkrid Thanhachartyothin, said they wanted the video to be “a case study for other Thai people or travellers to be conscious while they are travelling.”

He told Le Parisien at the time: “The doors were locked, and we had all our luggage in the trunk. He did not want to let us out, and kept driving while [supposedly] phoning his company to find a compromise.

“So, we decided to pay €200 to get out.”

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 286 ========

DRIVERLESS BUSES AND TAXIS TO BE LAUNCHED IN BRITAIN BY 2021

Scottish passengers could be the first in the world to experience autonomous buses.

The government has said that self-driving buses will be shuttling across the Forth Road Bridge in Scotland by 2021, carrying half a million passengers a year.

The Department for Business is pumping £4.35m into a £6m project that will see five single-decker buses, each carrying 42 passengers, running on a 14-mile journey.

The vehicles will link Fife with Edinburgh Park, the tram and rail interchange on the west side of the city. It offers a train journey of 10 minutes or less to Waverley station in the Scottish capital.

The bus service will operate every 20 minutes, and the weekly ridership is expected to be 10,000.

Since the Queensferry Crossing opened in 2017, the 1964 Forth Road Bridge has been mainly restricted to buses and taxis.

Bus drivers need not start looking for alternative employment; to comply with safety legislation, each vehicle will have a driver on board.

Driverless trains have been operating on the Docklands Light Railway in east London since 1987. But there is a huge difference between trains running on tracks on a closed system and buses driving on the open road.

Autonomous vehicles are fitted with sensors to detect other road users, with the control system responding by changing speed and direction.

Plans are also under way for a private hire pilot scheme in the London borough of Greenwich, where Addison Lee will deploy a fleet of 15 self-driving Land Rover Discovery vehicles.

Initially they will feed the Tube station at North Greenwich Station. Next, they will connect transport hubs in the borough that do not currently have a link.

The third stage is “a restricted on-demand service”. The final aim: a “go anywhere in borough service.”

There are also plans for a project called ServCity which will offer “a premium mobility service across four Greater London boroughs,” though details are sketchy.

The business secretary, Greg Clark, said: “Autonomous vehicles and their technology will not only revolutionise how we travel, it will open up and improve transport services for those who struggle to access both private and public transport.

“Self-driving cars will revolutionise the way we move goods and people around the UK.

“From 2021 the public will get to experience the future for themselves.”

In the US, the ride-sharing firm, Uber, has teamed up with Toyota in a $500m (£390m) project to develop autonomous vehicles.

Uber halted an autonomous taxi pilot in Arizona in March 2018 after a car operated by the firm struck and killed a pedestrian.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

