Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 394 ========

ATP FINALS: ROGER FEDERER NOT THINKING ABOUT 100TH TITLE AHEAD OF ALEXANDER ZVEREV CLASH

Roger Federer insists the prospect of claiming his 100th title in London is still not entering his head.

The Swiss great faces Alexander Zverev in the last four of the ATP Finals, with a potential blockbuster of a final against world number one Novak Djokovic to follow on Sunday.

Federer needs one more title to make it a century of career singles tournament wins, but with Zverev finishing the year strongly and Djokovic in irresistible form, he knows it will be a tough ask at the O2 Arena.

"Personally I'm still not thinking of the number 100," said the 37-year-old, six times a winner at the ATP Finals. "I won't let that get in my head, make me go crazy, because it should be something I'm excited about and not something I should feel extra pressure.

"As long as I think Novak is in the draw anyhow, he's playing so good again, it's never going to be easy.

"I think it's just going to be hard to finish it, but I'm happy I gave myself the opportunity."

Zverev booked a showdown against Federer with a straight-sets win over American John Isner.

The battle of the big servers resulted in a 7-6 (5) 6-3 victory for German Zverev, ending Isner's debut in the tournament at the group stage.

The 21-year-old has yet to reach a grand slam semi-final but finds himself in rarefied company at the prestigious end-of-season tournament.

"It's obviously great getting to the semi-finals, but the tournament isn't over," said Zverev. "I am in the semi-finals. There's only good opponents left. There's only the best in the world.

"I'm playing Roger, which is going to be a very difficult but hopefully very nice match. We'll see how far I can go."

Djokovic will face South African debutant Kevin Anderson, the man he beat in this year's Wimbledon final, in the other semi-final.

Djokovic, who beat Marin Cilic 7-6 (7) 6-2 in Friday evening's dead rubber, said: "(Anderson) is playing some great tennis, it's definitely his best season and he's continued doing that throughout this tournament.

"He's playing well, serving well, very aggressive, so I know what to expect."

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 395 ========

ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX: LEWIS HAMILTON 'PUSHING THE LIMITS' AS HE DELIGHTS IN YET ANOTHER POLE POSITION

The way things have been going of late, it’s almost easy to forget just what a huge challenge Ferrari presented to Mercedes at several points this year.

Under the lights of Abu Dhabi this evening, it looked like old times as Lewis Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas in their Mercedes fought each other for pole position, leaving Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen breathless in third and fourth places in their Ferraris, as the Red Bulls of Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen, which have been so quick in the last two races, struggling in fifth and sixth.

In the end it was Hamilton who got the job done best, for the 83rd time in his career and the 11th this season. For the newly crowned five-time world champion, who has won 50 of the last 99 grands prix, it was the 52nd pole in the last 100.

And yet things had not looked too rosy for Mercedes after the first qualifying session, when Vettel had headed Bottas and Hamilton, 1m 36.775s to 1m 36.789s and 1m 36.828s.

“Q1 was really tight and I thought we had more of a chance,” Vettel admitted. But somehow that performance edge could not be sustained.

Switching from the fastest hypersoft Pirelli tyres to the more durable ultrasofts for Q2, in which drivers must start the race on the tyres on which they qualify, Hamilton went to the front, with a very strong lap of 1m 35.693s. Verstappen was second with 1m 36.114s, as Vettel fell back on 1m 36.345s and Bottas to 1m 36.392s, all of them on the same rubber.

Hamilton continued to set a remorseless pace at the start of Q3as Mercedes turned up the wick, his first run yielding 1m 35.295s when he went back to the hypersofts that all of the drivers used, and now Bottas was initially his closest challenger on 1m 35.419s. But there was a glimmer of hope for Vettel as he pushed ahead of the Finn with 1m 35.352s.

Bottas, who incredibly has yet to win a race this year, pushed really hard on his second run and was actually up on Hamilton’s time after the first two sectors, but the Briton had a really good third sector and that settled the pole in his favour as he made an improvement to 1m 34.794s. Bottas went back ahead of Vettel, however, with 1m 34.956s. The German’s lap looked good for the first two sectors, but came apart thereafter and he dropped to third with 1m 35.125s. Raikkonen improved slightly to 1m 35.365s, but as Ricciardo also trimmed a little off his time to 1m 35.401s, Verstappen stayed on 1m 35.589s, looking curiously subdued.

It was Mercedes’ fifth consecutive front-row lockout here. Hamilton kissed his car as he alighted, and admitted that it was an emotional moment.

“It’s the last time I will do qualifying in this car,” he explained. “We’ve been on an emotional rollercoaster together this year, and I feel closer to it than to any of my other cars.

“This was a great qualifying session, and today it was so much fun to be able to express yourself and your car as much as you want. There is no better feeling.

“Honestly, I never say anything is a perfect lap. My first lap was not spectacular, there were a couple of excursions and some movement of the car’s rear end, but the second one got more aggressive and the last sector was the killer for me. It’s not easy to do that from one lap to another.

“After clinching the title I wanted to continue to push the limits and boundaries and I want to finish the season on a high and then continue to exploit that foundation to give us a strong to start to next year. I’m definitely happy with how it’s gone this year, and I’m really happy with today. It’s great to end the season with a 1-2 in qualifying.”

Bottas, again, was disappointed, but second was still a boost after recent races.

“For sure I was aiming for pole,” he said. “I got it here last year, but couldn’t repeat that. First of all, Lewis had quite a nice lap, so I was impressed with that. On my second run there was definitely some track improvement but he got a more complete lap in the end. I think I lost time in the third sector, in Turns 17 and 18. It was difficult to get it right. Pole was possible today, but Lewis did a better job.” As Hamilton shook hands with Vettel’s mechanics, the German smiled and admitted that Ferrari didn’t quite have the pace in qualifying to challenge the Silver Arrows.

“It didn’t go my way so I guess he enjoyed it a little bit more,” he said as he watched that little bit of sportsmanship. “But I’m looking forward to getting into the car for last time tomorrow, and we’ll give it everything we have.

“I’m quite confident, and it’s going to be a very long race. Of course I would have liked to be on the front row but that was not the case, but we’ll fight as hard as we can and on raceday anything can happen. Let’s see what we can do.”

Both Hamilton and Vettel expect the Red Bulls to be more competitive tomorrow.

“They’ll be strong,” Hamilton said, “They always are in the race. They struggle to keep up with the pace we deliver in quali but in the race they come back, so I’m sure they’ll be there, but this is not that easy a circuit on which to overtake. Nevertheless, I hope they have strong finish to the year.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 396 ========

ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX: LEWIS HAMILTON TAKES POLE POSITION AS HE BIDS TO END SEASON IN STYLE

Lewis Hamilton completed one half of his vow to end his championship-winning campaign in style as he put his Mercedes on pole position for the season-closing Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

Hamilton, who secured his fifth title with two rounds to spare in Mexico last month, will be joined on the front row by Valtteri Bottas, with Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen third and fourth for Ferrari.

Fernando Alonso is ending his 18-season career here in the desert on Sunday, and in his final Formula One qualifying session, the two-time world champion finished 15th.

Hamilton, 33, has been in the form of his life this year, dominating Vettel in a title fight that many had expected to go to the wire.

And it was fitting that he would secure his 11th pole of the season at the final round as he goes in search of his 11th win.

Under the lights of the Yas Marina circuit, Hamilton danced his way to the top of the time sheets, finishing 0.162 seconds clear of Bottas, and a third of a second faster than Vettel.

"It was quite an emotional qualifying session, because it is the last time I will qualify in this car," said Hamilton, who kissed and massaged his car in gratitude.

"I am closest to this car than I have been to any other. It has not always been easy, but it has been a real privilege this year. To go out there and express yourself, and push the car the way you want, there is no better feeling.

"The first lap wasn't spectacular, but that last one started off calm, and then I got more and more aggressive. The last sector was a killer, and that is where I made the difference."

Vettel, who has been victorious at just one race since the summer break as his challenge faded, said: "I am confident for tomorrow, so it should be good fun challenging these guys, and I will give it everything I have."

The sport will throw on a paddock party for Alonso in celebration of a career which has yielded 32 victories, and two titles.

Yet, the Spaniard's only hope for his final outing is set to be a point, or maybe two, as he lines up an underwhelming 15th of the 20 runners.

Alonso, 37, will take some comfort from out-qualifying his McLaren team-mate 21-0 over the course of his final season. The last driver to manage that? Alonso, in 2008 with Nelson Piquet Jnr as his Renault team-mate.

It will be 100 and out for Daniel Ricciardo's Red Bull career on Sunday, and he ended his final Saturday with the team on something of a high, by edging Max Verstappen out to finish fifth. The Dutchman will line up one place lower, in sixth.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 397 ========

FORMULA 1 2018: LEWIS HAMILTON FASTEST IN FINAL PRACTICE FOR ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX

World champion Lewis Hamilton posted the fastest time in final practice for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

The Mercedes star, who is bidding to end his title-winning campaign with his 11th victory of the year, finished 0.288 seconds clear of Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen at the Yas Marina circuit, with Sebastian Vettel third.

Max Verstappen finished fourth quickest, ahead of Valtteri Bottas, with Daniel Ricciardo sixth in the order.

Ricciardo is taking part in his 100th and final race for Red Bull ahead of his switch to Renault next year, but there was an all-too familiar feel to the end of his one-hour running after the Australian was forced to park his car.

Robert Kubica

Paul Di Resta Getty 16/30 Toro Rosso Getty 17/30 Confirmed: Brendon Hartley Getty 18/30 Confirmed: Pierre Gasly Getty 19/30 Renault Getty 20/30 Confirmed: Nico Hulkenberg Getty 21/30 Confirmed: Carlos Sainz Getty 22/30 Haas Getty 23/30 Confirmed: Kevin Magnussen Getty 24/30 Confirmed: Romain Grosjean Getty 25/30 McLaren Getty 26/30 Confirmed: Fernando Alonso Getty 27/30 Confirmed: Stoffel Vandoorne Getty 28/30 Sauber Getty 29/30 Confirmed: Charles Leclerc Getty 30/30 Confirmed: Marcus Ericsson Getty 1/30 Mercedes Getty 2/30 Confirmed: Lewis Hamilton Getty 3/30 Confirmed: Valtteri Bottas Getty 4/30 Ferrari Getty 5/30 Confirmed: Sebastian Vettel Getty 6/30 Confirmed: Kimi Raikkonen Getty 7/30 Red Bull Getty 8/30 Confirmed: Daniel Ricciardo Getty 9/30 Confirmed: Max Verstappen Getty 10/30 Force India Getty 11/30 Confirmed: Sergio Perez Getty 12/30 Confirmed: Esteban Ocon Getty 13/30 Williams Getty 14/30 Confirmed: Lance Stroll Getty 15/30 In contention: Daniil Kvyat

Robert Kubica

Paul Di Resta Getty 16/30 Toro Rosso Getty 17/30 Confirmed: Brendon Hartley Getty 18/30 Confirmed: Pierre Gasly Getty 19/30 Renault Getty 20/30 Confirmed: Nico Hulkenberg Getty 21/30 Confirmed: Carlos Sainz Getty 22/30 Haas Getty 23/30 Confirmed: Kevin Magnussen Getty 24/30 Confirmed: Romain Grosjean Getty 25/30 McLaren Getty 26/30 Confirmed: Fernando Alonso Getty 27/30 Confirmed: Stoffel Vandoorne Getty 28/30 Sauber Getty 29/30 Confirmed: Charles Leclerc Getty 30/30 Confirmed: Marcus Ericsson Getty

Ricciardo's year has been plagued by mechanical issues - indeed, he has suffered more retirements this season (eight) than Hamilton has endured in the last five years - and an apparent water leak contributed to further bad luck for him here.

Fernando Alonso, bowing out of the sport after 17 seasons, finished 16th for McLaren, while Haas driver Romain Grosjean and the Toro Rosso of Pierre Gasly were involved in a clumsy collision at Turn 17 in the closing minutes of the running.

The pair banged sidepods under braking for the right-hander, with Gasly gesticulating at his fellow Frenchman. The incident is under investigation by the stewards.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 398 ========

ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX: HONOUR, NOT GLORY, AT STAKE FOR LEWIS HAMILTON AND RIVALS

While there is inevitably less tension in the air here in Abu Dhabi because the two world championships – for drivers and for constructors – have been decided, there is still honour at stake. And there is no shortage of drivers seeking one last shot at redemption.

Valtteri Bottas is desperate for the 2018 victory that has thus far eluded him at Mercedes, when team-mate Lewis Hamilton won not only the drivers’ crown but half of the 20 races run thus far.

Sebastian Vettel wants his first win since Belgium in August, and to atone for some of the errors that have proved so costly this year, but defence for the German came from team principal Maurizio Arrivabene in the day’s press conference when he got into a spat with BBC Sport’s Andrew Benson who pushed to know how Arrivabene would achieve the results in 2019 that proved so elusive this season.

“I give you an answer, having said that what you said is not correct because we started the season in very good shape and then as Sebastian said yesterday, he made mistakes, then from Monza onwards we were not there with the car and this is a fact, too, if you’re talking about facts,” the Italian said disingenuously. “I don’t want to point the finger at the team or on the driver. If we are losing, we are losing together. If we are winning, we are winning together. And that’s it.”

Well, not quite, but never mind. They’ll either get it right, or they won’t.

Daniel Ricciardo wants to sign off his successful Red Bull career, which has yielded all six of his wins, with a final one to round out a bitterly disappointing year of retirements.

"I want to end this year strong,” he admitted. “It's not going to be easy, mentally. I know that. Each lap I turn in the car will mean one lap closer to my last in a Red Bull racesuit. And when I get out for the final time, I think I'm going to have a right good cry. Maybe a few.”

Max Verstappen wants the win that got away last time out in Brazil, and Kimi Raikkonen liked the feeling he got on the top step of the podium in Austin recently, and wants to feel it again before his Ferrari career finally ends.

Typically, the down-to-earth Finn had a less emotional approach to valediction.

“Obviously I had this leaving them once already so it’s not a new thing. I’m not sad because I don’t see why we need to be sad. We will stay as friends.”

This will be Fernando Alonso’s last grand prix for the foreseeable future, and yesterday the Spaniard admitted that he would feel differently to the way he did when he arrived in Abu Dhabi.

“So far I think it’s a normal weekend,” he said before stepping into his McLaren for the few last times. As a tribute, the team have decorated it with the blue, red and yellow Asturian colours of his Kimoa clothing company.

“I think on Sunday it’s going to be different, when it gets a little bit more emotions,” he added. “I’ve been racing last weekend in Shanghai and I’m not probably into the mood yet of this final race. It feels okay right now. But it’s going to be special, emotional, and hopefully a good one.”

And Hamilton wouldn’t mind whittling Michael Schumacher’s advantage in the all-time wins stakes down to 18. With special permission he celebrated his fifth world title by running with No 1 on the nose of his Mercedes in the first practice session, instead of 44.

Of Thursday’s practice sessions, the world champion said: “Overall, it's been a good day; even though the first session was not great. The track was very green in the beginning, so there

was a lot of sliding around and - just like everyone else - we were struggling with the tyres. There's a big difference in track temperature between the two sessions; the conditions in FP2 are much more representative of qualifying and the race, so in that respect FP1 and FP3 don't really tell you a whole lot.

“We made some really good changes over the break and I was much happier with the car in FP2, but there's still a lot of work to do. Red Bull looked quick today, they're usually fast in practice and in the race, so I have no doubts it will be the same this weekend.”

Others had problems with the sausage kerb on the outside of the penultimate corner. Chares Leclerc banged his Sauber over it, while both Red Bulls also ventured into its punishing territory. Verstappen rode the whole length of the kerb, tobogganing along on his car’s underbelly, and pitted for immediate inspection.

At the end of what seemed a curiously low-key sort of day, Bottas headed Verstappen by just 0.044s, 1m 37.236s to 1, 37.280s, as the Dutchman continued to fly, with Daniel Ricciardo pipping Hamilton for third. The Australian lapped his Red Bull in 1m 37.428s to the Briton’s 1m 37.443s. With the Ferraris of Kimi Raikkonen and Sebastian Vettel fifth and sixth on 1m 37.461s and 1m 37.569s, the top six were covered by just 0.333s.

Hopefully, though, the action will speed up and spice up a little over the next two days.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 399 ========

AN EVENING WITH BRADLEY WIGGINS: EMOTIONAL, FUNNY, RUDE – WITH A DEEP DISLIKE FOR EVERYONE AND EVERYTHING

As An Evening with Bradley Wiggins meanders through his life story, with emotion, humour and plenty of profanity, everyone and everything falls into his line of fire. The “bitch” who knocked him off his bike aged 13 and broke his collarbone. Dave Brailsford. Ned Boulting. The BBC Sports Personality of the Year Awards. The Daily Mail. Margaret Thatcher. The school art teacher who laughed when Wiggins said he wanted to become an Olympic champion. “She smoked 50 a day so she’ll be long dead by now,” he says with a smile.

At one point he ridicules the imaginary children he would have had had he decided to move to Monaco when the money started rolling in, and it is not a huge leap to think this might be a dig at his former teammate Chris Froome, who lives in the principality. “I thought about moving to Monaco but then I thought ‘fuck that’. I don’t want my kids growing up like idiots, wearing loafers. I want them to learn the simple things in life, like going down the shops when the milk runs out.”

This sentiment brings applause from the sell-out audience at the Theatre Royal in Nottingham, perhaps in part because it captures who Wiggins is, or at least how he desperately wants to be perceived: the boy who rose from the salt of the earth to conquer the world. He describes himself as “just a boy from Kilburn” several times through the evening, and of his hectic life after winning the Tour de France he says: “The minute I got called a ‘celebrity’, I had to get out and get back to the real world.” As his Olympic medals are emptied on to the stage from a Co-op carrier bag, he describes them as “junk” that means nothing to him.

But Wiggins also seems tangled in contradiction. He cannot understand why journalists still write about him because “I’m not relevant anymore”, yet here he is selling out theatres, promoting his new book and building a media career, while very publicly setting old bridges ablaze as he goes. The reality, whether Wiggins likes it or not – and it is hard to tell – is that he will be forever relevant, stitched into the fabric of the sport as Olympic champion and the first Briton to win the Tour de France. His UK tour is ostensibly about promoting his new book, Icons, and yet the rapt crowd is a reminder of his own enduring iconic status, despite the TUE revelations and the Jiffy-bag scandal. An impressive array of sideburns in the stalls says as much.

His book has drawn much criticism from the cycling world for including Lance Armstrong among 21 riders he idolised. The head of world cycling David Lappartient labelled it “unacceptable”, while current Tour champion and former teammate Geraint Thomas said on Sunday that Wiggins was deliberately garnering publicity. There is nothing hugely controversial about what Wiggins writes about Armstrong, who truly was one his biggest influences – among the many memorabilia on stage (Wiggins is something of an obsessive collector and has been since childhood) is Armstrong’s famous blue jersey with white stars and a red stripe, which the American wore when he won the 1993 World Championship.

But it is also telling that Wiggins introduces Armstrong in his book with the phrase: “Those who are easily offended should look away now…” It is perhaps a clue to another part of the Wiggins persona which evidently still chimes with some sections of the Great British public – that he doesn’t have much time for political correctness, a champion for ‘saying it like it is’.

Like his response to critics of his book. “I don’t give a fuck about all them arsewipes,” he says. “Cycling News, the Daily Mail. I will tell my story. They don’t listen to the context. [Armstrong] was an inspiration at a certain point in my life. I didn’t always like him – when he raced for US Postal Service, with the black socks, all the Americanism – but that performance [in 1993] still gives me goosebumps.

“I’m not going to change my story just to appease people like Ned Boulting. I know far more about the sport than he does and I’ll challenge him on it. He just needs to engage his brain every now and then.”

The night is not all swearing at Ned Boulting. Wiggins is skilled at entertaining an audience and there are some very funny moments, like his long description of the sheer boredom he felt riding the hour record. He reveals he rode the team pursuit at the Athens Olympics with a stonking hangover, and pulls off passable impressions of Brailsford (“he’ll hate me after this week,” Wiggins mutters as he swigs some wine), and Mark Cavendish – one of the few people he seems to like.

There are also moments of genuine emotion. He wells up as he recalls aspects of his troubled childhood. He describes his father, an Australian cyclist who walked out when Wiggins was only two, and who was later murdered, as both his cycling hero who was nearly included in his book of icons, and “a cruel bastard” who was violent towards his mother and whom he hated.

Ultimately what comes across both in his show and his book is the obsessive cycling fan that he is. The expansive collection of jerseys from moments in history is testament to that, and there is no escaping his love for the sport which gripped him as child, which drove him to sneak across his estate with his embarrassing lycra covered by a tracksuit, to ride to the shop to buy the latest copy of Cycling Weekly, to race through the streets of north London until it got dark.

Along with his wit, it is this love which makes him oddly endearing, albeit in a slightly threatening way, like someone you might know for years without ever really knowing, who you suspect might one day lace your cereal with poison. Wiggins evidently still retains a kind of allure for the British public. His legacy is caught in a grey area, like the ones Team Sky are accused of unethically exploiting, but there seems an admiration among many ordinary cyclists, of which he was once one – an admiration which he seems to reciprocate, in his own way.

“All those people in Surrey complaining about cyclists on the road,” he says at one point, breaking away on one of his many tangents. “Let them ride. Let Surrey suffer. They’re all Daily Mail readers in Surrey anyway.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 400 ========

BRADLEY WIGGINS: DAVE BRAILSFORD IS ‘LIKE THE MESSIAH REBORN’ AND CHRIS FROOME ‘HATES ME’

Bradley Wiggins took aim at “the messiah reborn” Dave Brailsford, Mark Cavendish’s “very little hands”, and said Chris Froome “hates me” during an expletive-laden interview in front of an audience in Manchester on Monday night.

Speaking at An evening with Bradley Wiggins at the Lowry Theatre in Salford, conducted by ITV cycling presenter Matt Barbet, the former Tour de France winner and Olympic gold medallist was candid about his feelings towards some of his former colleagues.

“He’s like the messiah reborn, with a halo around his head,” Wiggins said of Brailsford, his principal at Team Sky, as reported by Cyclist. “I can’t describe him without swearing. Cav [Mark Cavendish] summed him up when he said, ‘If you walked in on him and your wife in bed, he’d make you think it was your idea’.”

Wiggins, who was talking at the beginning of a UK Tour, was particularly scathing of Cavendish, the former Team Sky sprinter who moved to Team Dimension Data in 2016, the year Wiggins retired for racing.

“We didn’t speak to each other for 18 months [after that],” said Wiggins. “He wears a £300,000 watch and rides for a team that donates 10 bicycles a day to Africa. I said to him, ‘Why don’t you just sell your watch? Then you could buy Africa.’

“He’s got very little hands, like Jeremy Beadle [the TV presenter who had Poland syndrome]. Can you imagine changing partners in the madison with Jeremy Beadle?” Of his long-time team-mate and rival Froome, Wiggins added: “’We don’t like each other, so what? He hates me, but he’s a great athlete who will go down as one of the greats of our sport.”

He also hit out at the media, telling any journalists lurking in the audience to “f*** off” and defending his recently published book, Icons, from criticism after he named Lance Armstrong as one of his most important inspirations.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 401 ========

BRADLEY WIGGINS VIEW ON ‘INSPIRATION’ LANCE ARMSTRONG IS ‘UNBELIEVABLE’, SAYS UCI PRESIDENT DAVID LAPPARTIENT

The head of world cycling has branded Sir Bradley Wiggins’ comments of Lance Armstrong “unbelievable” and “not acceptable”, after Wiggins described the American as an inspirational figure.

Wiggins said on a radio show last week that Armstrong has nothing to apologise to him for, despite the disgraced American beating him to the podium at the 2009 Tour de France before later being stripped of his achievements after admitting to systematic doping.

“When I was 13 and I was living on a council estate in London, Lance won the world title in Oslo and he was 21,” Wiggins told TalkSport. “I was enthralled by it. I’m not saying he’s an icon ... but whether people like it or not, he’s iconic in some way, good or bad. I can’t change the way I felt about it when I was 13. So many other people [tarnished the sport], so much goes on in the world anyway, bad things. Lance has paid the price heavily.”

The UCI president said on Friday that he disagreed with Wiggins’ assessment of Armstrong’s legacy.

“Bradley Wiggins is Bradley Wiggins. He always says some strange things,” said Lappartient. “When I saw [his comments] I thought ‘unbelievable’. The guy who won the Tour de France, he has been Olympic champion, he has been world champion, and he’s supporting Lance Armstrong, who has been banned for life for cheating.

“So for me this isn’t acceptable to have some statement like this, specifically from a former winner of the Tour de France. I fully disagree with what he said, of course, because we know now that this [career] has been based on cheating. But Wiggins is Wiggins.”

Speaking on a range of topics to the British press 13 months on from his election win, Lappartient criticised Tour de France organisers ASO for only producing a one-day women’s race, reiterated his call to have the painkiller tramadol banned in competition, and defended the under-fire Wada (World Anti-Doping Agency) president Craig Reedie.

Reedie has been under pressure to step down following Wada’s decision to lift its ban on the Russian anti-doping agency (Rusada), among other high-profile controversies. The Movement for Credible Cycling (MPCC) was among those to call for the Scot’s resignation, in a fiercely critical open letter last week which Reedie said showed “an astonishing lack of understanding” of Wada’s work.

“I will not join the statements calling for Craig Reedie to resign,” said Lappartient. “From the discussions I had with him, I know he’s trying to do his best to lead the organisation but it’s not always easy. I don’t think asking him to step down is a solution. For me, I would like to give more power to the governing body, and the president. I’m calling for a stronger Wada.”

Lappartient reiterated the UCI’s push for tramadol to be included on Wada’s banned list. The former Team Sky rider Michael Barry claimed in a book last year that the team used the painkiller “frequently” in races, and it is currently on Wada’s watchlist of substances which may be being abused.

“We promise that we will ban tramadol for health reasons,” said Lappartient. “We hope that after this Wada will be able to put this on the list.” He added that “cycling is leading the bunch” in tackling doping in sport, with the UCI spending nearly 25 per cent of its overall budget on attempting to achieve clean riding.

Lappartient also said that the UCI will be announcing a committee next month tasked with developing ways to improve the sport’s entertainment value, making particular reference to Team Sky’s domination of the Tour de France. He added that he would be willing to discuss any issues with Team Sky’s principal Dave Brailsford, with whom he shared a public spat in the media earlier this year.

“No, not yet,” Lappartient said when asked if he’d ever met with Brailsford. “He’s a clever guy, I would be happy to receive his view on the way we must organise professional cycling in the future. I’m sure he would have some good input. I would be happy to sit with him.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 402 ========

MO FARAH CONFIRMS HE WILL RUN LONDON MARATHON AGAIN IN 2019 AS HE PREPARES TO GO FOR GOLD AT TOKYO 2020

Mo Farah will compete at the London Marathon in 2019.

Great Britain's four-time Olympic gold medallist has been confirmed as an entrant as he looks to win the race for the first time.

Farah finished third in this year's event in London but has since won his first major marathon title by claiming victory in Chicago in a European record time.

And the 35-year-old, who has previously declared his intention to target the marathon at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020, is hoping to continue his progress on the streets of the capital on Sunday, April 28.

“I'm delighted to confirm I'll be returning to race the Virgin Money London Marathon again next year,” he said.

“I've often said how racing in London is very special to me and the London Marathon gives me the chance to run in front of my fans, on my home roads, where the atmosphere is like nothing else.

“I feel I have made great strides in the past year, finishing third in London in April and winning my first major marathon in Chicago in October.

“That and breaking both the British and European records has given me the confidence that I can compete against the best marathon runners in the world.

“London always puts together a world-class field and I expect that will be exactly the same in 2019 and I can't wait for the challenge.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 403 ========

UK ANTI-DOPING AGENCY CALLS FOR WADA REFORM AFTER RUSSIA CONTROVERSY

The UK Anti-Doping Agency has joined 17 other nations in calling for reform of Wada following the outcry over its decision to reinstate Russia.

The leaders of 18 national anti-doping associations met at a summit in Paris where they expressed "solidarity" with athletes who have voiced concern at last month's decision by the world body to reinstate the Russian Anti-Doping Agency.

The leaders said there was a need to act in order to restore the faith of both the public and athletes in the global regulator.

Directing their statement at athletes, they said: "While others may not be listening to your concerns and your solutions for how to improve Wada Governance, we wish to make it clear that we, the anti-doping leaders, do.

"We stand united with you. We hear and share your concerns, and we stand with you every step of the way to strive to transform Wada so that it respects your rights and makes decisions in the interests of clean sport."

The group of 18 also included the US Anti-Doping Agency, as well as those from Ireland, France, Australia, Japan, Germany, and Switzerland.

Wada has already said it has begun a process of reform, but those gathered in Paris said it did not go far enough as they called for the Copenhagen Reform Proposals - a package put together in August 2016 following the McLaren Report into allegations of state-sponsored doping in Russia - to be implemented.

"Given the athletes' concerns in Wada's decision-making and governance process, and after all that we have regrettably witnessed in the wake of the Russian doping crisis, Wada's limited proposals for governance reform fall far short of what the world's athletes and other champions of clean sport have been calling for these past two years, and there should be a rethink", a statement said.

"We urge Wada not to repeat the mistakes it made in the process to reinstate Rusada, and to conduct its actions in a more transparent and open fashion.

"Looking ahead to the crucial December 31 deadline, we call on Wada to run an open, transparent and clear process for securing the anti-doping samples and, given the gravity of the issue and level of athlete and public interest, for the Wada Compliance Review Committee to convene an urgent and robust meeting to make its recommendation on the compliance of Rusada.

"The world is waiting, and the world is watching."

PA

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 404 ========

RUSSIAN ATHLETE BANNED FOR FOUR YEARS AFTER TESTING POSITIVE FOR COCKTAIL OF FOUR DIFFERENT DRUGS

A Russian hammer thrower has been banned by the Russian track and field federation after testing positive for four banned substances.

Tatyana Kachegina will be banned from competition for four years after samples she provided to testers contained the anabolic steroids turinabol and stanozolol, as well as GHRP-2, which prompts the body to make more growth hormone, and the heart drug meldonium.

Meldonium was the same drug found in Maria Sharapova's system when she received a two-year ban from tennis in 2016. The suspension was later reduced to 15 months.

Kachegina's lengthy ban reflects the cocktail of drugs found in her system and the Russian federation revealed that they have banned four more athletes - three for positive doping tests and another for failing to provide a sample.

The Russian national team has been barred from international track competitions since 2015 because of widespread doping. Kachegina and the others banned Thursday aren't among the many Russians who have been approved by the IAAF to compete internationally.

Additional reporting by agencies

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 405 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER TICKETS: OVERWHELMING DEMAND SEES MORE RELEASED ON EVE OF FIGHT

Additional tickets for Tyson Fury’s world heavyweight title fight against Deontay Wilder next month have been made available to the public due to overwhelming demand.

The hugely-anticipated clash of undefeated heavyweights will take place at Staples Center in Los Angeles on 1 December, and the new tickets are priced at $125 (£98) and $75 (£59).

Fury and Wilder are both hoping that a victory will put them in position to challenge Anthony Joshua in a lucrative fight to unify the world heavyweight belts at some point in 2019.

Wilder, who has ended 39 of his 40 professional bouts inside the distance, has held the WBC world heavyweight title since defeating Haitian-Canadian veteran Bermane Stiverne in 2015.

Fury (27-0, 19 KOs) claimed the other three major heavyweight belts with a shock unanimous decision win over Wladimir Klitschko in November 2015, but vacated his titles 11 months later and spent more than two years out of the ring due to a prolonged legal battle with UK Anti-Doping, as well as issues with substance abuse and depression.

The fight will be broadcast live on Showtime PPV in the US and BT Sport Box Office in the UK.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 406 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: NEW FOOTAGE EMERGES OF AMERICAN MOCKING BRIT DURING FRANCESCO PIANETA FIGHT

New footage has emerged of Deontay Wilder mocking Tyson Fury during his fight with Francesco Pianeta.

The two will put their unbeaten professional records on the line for the WBC title in Los Angeles next month.

Fury has only recently returned to the ring following a nearly three-year absence following a doping violation and has faced only two opponents in his comeback so far with Wilder seemingly unimpressed with the quality of the opponents.

Showtime are releasing an access-all-areas documentary series about the run up to the clash at the Staples Center and in it Wilder is shown yelling at Fury during his most recent fight.

“Show me something, baby. Show me something!," he shouted from ringside.

Wilder believes Fury’s late addition of trainer Freddie Roach to his team is a display of “nervous behaviour” ahead of the fight.

Wilder also questioned the absence of former trainer and uncle Peter Fury, while father John Fury will also not be in his son’s corner come fight night as he has been denied a US visa to a past criminal conviction.

“This is the biggest fight of his life to date and if I was him I would be trying to reach out to any resources when you are dealing with one of the most dangerous men in the boxing game,” Wilder said on Thursday night.

“I would have been more happy with Peter, that is who he really needs. His only name has been Klitschko, but Peter was the one that was with him for that. Peter knows him, in and out.

“In this short period of time (new trainers such as Roach) ain’t going to get to know you. When you start getting multiple trainers that is nervous behaviour.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 407 ========

RUGBY LEAGUE STAR JARRYD HAYNE CHARGED WITH SEXUAL ASSAULT AND ORDERED TO APPEAR IN SYDNEY COURT

National Rugby League star Jarryd Hayne has been charged with sexual assault and will appear in a Sydney court next month.

The 30-year-old Hayne went to a Sydney police station with his manager on Monday and was later charged over the alleged sexual assault of a 26-year-old woman on 30 September, the night of the NRL final between Sydney Roosters and Melbourne Storm.

The ex-Australia full-back, who spent a season with the San Francisco 49ers in the NFL before returning to rugby league via a brief stint with Fiji's rugby sevens squad in 2016, was granted bail on the condition he surrender his passport and don't go to the city of Newcastle, north of Sydney.

Police said they launched the investigation after the woman alleged that she had been sexually assaulted by a man she met on social media.

Hayne, who is currently without a contract after leaving the Parramatta Eels at the end of the season, is set to appear at the Burwood Local Court on 10 December.

He has scored 121 tries in 214 NRL games since making his debut in 2006 and helped the Eels reach the grand final in 2009, where they lost to Melbourne Storm.

A Parramatta spokesman told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. that the club would not comment because it was a court matter.

Hayne was part of the Australia squad that won the Rugby World Cup in 2013, though he also qualifies for Fiji through his father and represented them at the 2017 edition of the tournament.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 408 ========

MANNY PACQUIAO RILES ADRIEN BRONER BY INDULGING FLOYD MAYWEATHER REMATCH TALK AHEAD OF WELTERWEIGHT BOUT

Manny Pacquiao will defend his WBA welterweight title against Adrien Broner in January – but the Filipino superstar already has his eye on a rematch with Floyd Mayweather.

The two men held a news conference to confirm the scheduling of the fight, set for 19 January in Las Vegas, only for Pacquiao to rile Broner by discussing the prospect of facing Mayweather again.

“We talk and, you know, he said he want to come out of retirement to fight me and to challenge me but I told him: ‘I got the belt and you have to challenge me and come out from your retirement’,” the Filipino said of a much-publicised meeting with Mayweather at a music festival in Tokyo.

“And I decided that... I said that, because in that situation he [was] trying to bully me or whatever. Floyd, if he comes out of retirement, we will see after this fight.

“But we cannot underestimate Adrien Broner, we cannot underestimate this fight. I have to get through this fight first before we talk about the rematch with Floyd Mayweather.”

Broner responded: “He ain’t fighting Floyd, he’s fighting me. I’m gonna beat your ass, you worry about Floyd, he’s already beat you brother.

“I’m really thankful. There were a lot of people who wanted this fight and God blessed me to get it. I guess I am just the chosen one. He’s a future hall-of-famer. It’s going to be a helluva fight.

“All the things he’s done in this game is unbelievable. I have only got a chance y’all could dream of, I don’t even know how I’m feeling right now. It means a lot to me. A win, I turn a legend overnight.”

Broner (33-3-1), who was once considered by some to be the heir apparent to pound-for-pound king Mayweather, is far from intimidated by Pacquiao and is fully aware that the southpaw can go down.

“He's been knocked out three times,” the American added. “We know he can go out and go to sleep. He don't need no NyQuil for that. We know he can go to sleep and I got the power to do it.”

There has been speculation about a rematch ever since Mayweather scored a unanimous decision over Pacquiao, who later said he was hampered by a right shoulder injury, in a 2015 bout that was dubbed “The Fight of the Century” but never lived up to its billing.

Mayweather, 41, retired in 2017 with a 50-0 record and said on Instagram in September that a rematch of the much-hyped 2015 fight would take place this year.

He has since agreed to face Japanese kickboxing sensation Tenshin Nasukawa in Saitama on New Year’s Eve, though the bout is classed as a nine-minute exhibition with no kicking allowed and the outcome will not affect his professional record.

Pacquiao (60-7-2), who turns 40 in December, showed a return to form in July when he stunned defending champion Lucas Matthysse with a seventh-round knockout in Kuala Lumpur to claim the WBA welterweight title.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 409 ========

RAYMOND VAN BARNEVELD TO QUIT DARTS AT END OF 2019 SEASON

Five-time world champion Raymond Van Barneveld will quit darts at the end of 2019, saying he has lost the "drive, fitness and motivation" to succeed.

The 51-year-old Dutchman, a 2007 PDC World Championship victor over Phil Taylor in what is regarded as the greatest match of all time, announced the news on Monday.

He will play through to next year's World Championship, giving him two more opportunities to add to his tally, but he admitted he no longer has what it takes to compete regularly at the top end of the sport.

"Next year is going to be my 35th year of playing darts at the highest level and it's going to be my last year," Van Barneveld told the Darts Show.

"I noticed in myself that I can't keep up anymore, I know what I can do but it's just not been happening for the past three or four years apart from winning the World Cup with Michael [van Gerwen].

"I'm not winning tournaments anymore, I don't know why but a lot of things have happened in my private life and I've also noticed that my body isn't feeling 100 per cent anymore - I don't have the drive, motivation or fitness to carry on.

"I'm a winner, that's what I do - I lift trophies but I can't do it anymore. Maybe there are still a couple of titles left in me and that would be amazing but I can't do this every week anymore. I don't want my career to fizzle out which is why I've made the decision to retire at the end of next year."

A winner of 29 PDC titles since moving over from the BDO, where he won four of his world titles, Van Barneveld was the first player to hit nine-dart finishes in the Premier League and World Championship.

Despite being behind the likes of Van Gerwen, Gary Anderson and Peter Wright in the running for major honours nowadays, he still believes he can end his career on the ultimate high.

"I absolutely believe I can still be world champion again in one of my last two attempts," Van Barneveld added.

"My grandmother always said 'if you believe then you can achieve anything you want' and I still believe I can do this, but not for many more years."

PA

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 410 ========

WWE SURVIVOR SERIES RESULTS: RONDA ROUSEY ATTACKED BY CHARLOTTE FLAIR AS BROCK LESNAR BEATS DANIEL BRYAN

Monday Night Raw proved dominant over Smackdown Live at WWE Survivor Series, but Ronda Rousey’s brutal attack at the hands of Charlotte Flair proved to be the biggest talking point from a frantic night in Los Angeles.

WWE’s red brand won all the key clashes on the night that saw stars from the company’s two flagship shows go head to head, most notably Universal Champion Brock Lesnar’s incredible win over WWE Champion Daniel Bryan.

But Charlotte’s decision to sacrifice her chances of victory in order to attack the former UFC champion with anything she could get her hands on – having only entered the match as a late substitute for Smackdown’s champion Becky Lynch – left Rousey a bloody mess afterwards.

The main event on the night saw Lesnar, who is criticised heavily for his reduced schedule and his match quality, deliver one of his best matches since returning to the WWE. With the exception of the pointless outing against Braun Strowman in Saudi Arabia recently, it must be said that Lesnar’s stock is rising where his commitment and in-ring ability is concerned.

He was aided by sharing the ring in Los Angeles with Daniel Bryan, one of the best craftsman in the business. The two told a great story with a to-and-fro affair that, after a dominant start from Lesnar, looking to be edging into Bryan’s favour.

In the end, though, a final F5 from The Beast on Bryan proved enough for the UFC combatant to prevail.

Charlotte lost her match against Rousey by disqualification but, in truth, Rousey was left looking anything other than a winner as she was devastated by scathing attack from Flair that featured a beat down with a steel chair and a Kendo stick.

It looked a certain heel turn by Flair, executed perfectly, with Rousey once again proving for her part that she could be set for a long and established career as a sports entertainer.

The tone for a hectic, frantic night had been set as early as the pre-show with the five-on-five tag team elimination bout. Raw’s Revival stood out as stars of the absolute melee, but were toppled at the end as The Usos downed them to pick up the win for Smackdown.

That was, however, as good as it got for the show managed by British favourite Paige. Raw would come out on top for the rest of the night.

In the woman’s division, Nia Jax stood tall for Raw as she toppled Asuka in the woman’s elimination match - despite turning on Sasha Banks, one of her own teammates, along the way.

Intercontinental champ Seth Rollins edged out Shinksuke Nakamura in a match that was expected to be a classic and duly delivered - exactly the same being said for the night’s only title match that saw Cruiserweight Champion, Buddy Murphy, retain against Mustafa Ali in a whirlwind contest.

Elsewhere, Authors of Pain dispatched The Bar in a surprisingly swift affair, while Shane McMahon was left staring down the barrel in the men’s elimination match - fending for himself against three remaining Raw team members, he was eventually pinned for the win by Strowman, who’d dominated much of the clash.

WWE Survivor Series results

Brock Lesnar DEF. Daniel Bryan

Seth Rollins DEF. Shinsuke Nakamura.

WWE Cruiserweight Champion Buddy Murphy DEF. Mustafa Ali.

Ronda Rousey DEF. Charlotte Flair.

Raw won the women’s Survivor Series elimination bout after Nia Jax pinned Asuka.

Authors of Pain DEF. The Bar

Smackdown Live won the five on five tag team elimination bout as The Usos pinned The Revival.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 411 ========

GERWYN PRICE ANGERS GARY ANDERSON ON HIS WAY TO WINNING BAD-TEMPERED PDC GRAND SLAM OF DARTS FINAL

Gerwyn Price riled opponent Gary Anderson on his way to becoming Wales’ first major PDC title winner after triumphing 16-13 in a feisty Grand Slam of Darts final in Wolverhampton.

Anderson, who surrendered an 11-8 lead in the match, clashed verbally with Price on several occasions after becoming annoyed with what he perceived as the Welshman’s slow play and over-exuberant celebrations and even pushed his opponent at one point.

Price was unapologetic after his victory and the two men did not share a traditional handshake at the end of the match. “He can’t handle playing me,” the Welshman said of Anderson.

Anderson, a two-time world champion, had beaten Dutch superstar Michael van Gerwen on his way to the final after also facing accusations of bad sportsmanship amid claims that he had repeatedly broken wind during his 10-2 win over Wesley Harms on Thursday.

Price got the better of the Scot in an ill-tempered final, however, and was greeted with loud boos from the crowd at Aldersley Leisure Village as he lifted the Eric Bristow Trophy.

“This trophy means a lot to me, it's the first ever one named after Eric so nobody can take that away from me,” Price added. “I go down in history now, happy days.

“Sometimes the crowd is with you, sometimes it's against you. If it's against you, you have to feed off that. This week, maybe two or three times, they were against me, [but] it makes me play better. So next time, boo a little bit more.

“I'm loving it playing on that stage against the best players in the world. Five, six years ago I was a rugby player, and now I'm pinching money from the professionals' pockets.”

Victory capped a dream few days for Price, who married his long-term partner last weekend, and the Welshman revelled in the psychological edge he believes he found over Anderson.

“I'm throwing my darts, he needs to wait for his turn,” Price insisted. “He doesn't like it when it's a little bit up him, so unlucky.

“I knew when he beat Michael [Van Gerwen] that I was going to beat him. Simple.

“He can't handle playing me. He just moans every time that I'm doing this, doing that. Concentrate on your own game.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 412 ========

ANTI-GLOBAL WARMING ATMOSPHERIC SPRAYING PROGRAMME ‘POSSIBLE’ SAY ENGINEERS

Re-engineering Earth’s atmosphere to reverse the trend of rising global temperatures has long been touted as a potential solution to catastrophic global climate change.

The idea involves spraying reflective sulphites 20km above the surface of the Earth, into the stratosphere, where the particles reflect sunlight back into space, preventing solar energy from warming our planet further.

If effective, the technology, known as stratospheric aerosol injection (SAI), could be used to offset the impacts of our continuing greenhouse gas emissions.

A new study examining only the process of delivering the sulphites to the stratosphere indicates an effective global effort is possible, and would be relatively inexpensive if purpose-built high-altitude aircraft were manufactured.

The study, published today in Environmental Research Letters, focuses on the hypothetical practicalities of a large scale project beginning 15 years from now with the aim of halving the projected increase in man-made temperature rises – also known as anthropogenic radiative forcing.

Dr Gernot Wagner, from Harvard University‘s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, is a co-author of the study. He said: “Solar geoengineering is often described as ‘fast, cheap, and imperfect’.

“While we don’t make any judgement about the desirability of SAI, we do show that a hypothetical deployment program starting 15 years from now, while both highly uncertain and ambitious, would be technically possible strictly from an engineering perspective.

“It would also be remarkably inexpensive, at an average of around $2bn – $2.5bn (£1.5bn – £1.9bn) per year over the first 15 years.”

The team confirmed earlier studies indicating the low direct costs of potential stratospheric aerosol geoengineering intervention, but they said they arrived at those numbers with the help of aerospace engineering companies in specifying what the paper calls the ‘SAI Lofter (SAIL)’ – the means of delivering the sulphite payload to the stratosphere.

Co-author Wake Smith, a lecturer at Yale College and who held previous positions as chief executive of Pemco World Air Services (an aircraft modification company), chief operating officer of Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings (a global cargo airline), and president of the flight training division of Boeing, said new aircraft would be needed for such a project.

He said: “I became intrigued by the engineering questions around SAI and the many studies that purport to show that modified existing planes could do the job. Turns out that is not so.

“It would indeed take an entirely new plane design to do SAI under reasonable albeit entirely hypothetical parameters. No existing aircraft has the combination of altitude and payload capabilities required.”

He added: “We developed the specifications for SAIL with direct input from several aerospace and engine companies. It’s equivalent in weight to a large narrow body passenger aircraft. But to sustain level flight at 20 kms, it needs roughly double the wing area of an equivalently sized airliner, and double the thrust, with four engines instead of two.

“At the same time, its fuselage would be stubby and narrow, sized to accommodate a heavy but dense mass of molten sulphur rather than the large volume of space and air required for passengers.”

The team estimated the total development costs at less than $2bn for the airframe, and a further $350m for modifying existing engines.

The new planes would comprise a fleet of eight in the first year, rising to a fleet of just under 100 within 15 years. The fleet would fly just over 4,000 missions a year in year one, rising to just over 60,000 per year by year 15.

Dr Wagner said: “Given the potential benefits of halving average projected increases in radiative forcing from a particular date onward, these numbers invoke the ‘incredible economics’ of solar geoengineering. Dozens of countries could fund such a program, and the required technology is not particularly exotic.”

But despite the low costs, the authors say this should not reinforce the fear a rogue country or operator could feasibly launch a clandestine SAI program upon an unsuspecting world.

Mr Smith said: “No global SAI program of the scale and nature discussed here could reasonably expect to maintain secrecy.

“Even our hypothesised year one deployment program entails 4000 flights at unusually high altitudes by airliner-sized aircraft in multiple flight corridors in both hemispheres. This is far too much aviation activity to remain undetected, and once detected, such a program could be deterred.”

Support free-thinking journalism and subscribe to Independent Minds

Doubts have previously been raised about the impact of shooting millions of tonnes of sulphites into the atmosphere every year.

Concerns include the impact on the ozone layer, whether the reflective particles would appear to turn the sky white, and whether sulphites could cause localised climatic issues in certain parts of the globe, disrupting rainfall patterns.

====== 413 ========

ANCIENT MAMMAL EXTINCTIONS IN AFRICA CAUSED BY CLIMATE CHANGE RATHER THAN HUMANS, STUDY FINDS

Climate change was a major factor in the extinction of giant animals across Africa over the last several million years, according to new research which disputes the long-held belief that our earliest weapon-wielding ancestors were a significant factor.

When and why megafauna, including colossal elephants and antlered giraffes, died out has remained a mystery for archaeologists and paleontologists.

Africa’s rich biodiversity of the distant past was widely thought to have been impacted by the arrival of early human ancestors who hunted them to extinction.

But the new work questions the validity of this theory, arguing there have been few attempts to test this scenario or explore alternative ideas.

Scientists at the University of Utah argued long-term environmental change drove the extinctions, mainly in the form of deforestation and grassland expansion caused by falling atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) levels.

The work indicates species of the largest herbivores began a steady long-term decline about 4.6 million years ago, long before tool-using human ancestors became a threat to the animals.

Our early ancestors diverged from chimpanzees 4 million to 7.5 million years ago, but tools, use of animal carcases and hunting came much later. The very earliest stone tools may have been used 2.4 million years ago, but significant levels of hunting only began 50,000 years ago, the fossil record shows.

Tyler Faith, curator of archaeology at the Natural History Museum of Utah and assistant professor in the Department of Anthropology at the University of Utah, led the study.

He said: “Our analyses show that there is a steady, long-term decline of megaherbivore diversity beginning around 4.6 million years ago.

“This extinction process kicks in over a million years before the very earliest evidence for human ancestors making tools or butchering animal carcasses and well before the appearance of any hominin species realistically capable of hunting them, like Homo erectus.”

In Africa, our evolving predecessors would have borne witness to many huge species which no longer walk the earth, including Deinotherium – a mighty elephant with backwards-curving tusks which weighed twice as much as an African bush elephant.

There were also two large baboon species, the largest of which was about the same size of a modern gorilla.

One of the strangest animals was the Sivatherium – a relative of the modern giraffe, and perhaps the largest ruminant ever to walk the earth. The species resembled a powerfully-built giraffe – over 3m tall, and weighing more than a tonne – but with a head like a stag with two pairs of antlers.

In order to understand the demise of these and other megaherbivores, Professor Faith and his team examined data from over 100 fossil records spanning the last seven million years.

They also looked at climate and environment records and their effects, specifically global atmospheric CO2 trends, stable carbon isotope records of vegetation structure, and stable carbon isotopes of eastern African fossil herbivore teeth.

Their analysis reveals that over the last seven million years substantial megaherbivore extinctions occurred: 28 lineages became extinct, leading to the present-day communities lacking in large animals.

“The key factor in the Plio-Pleistocene megaherbivore decline seems to be the expansion of grasslands, which is likely related to a global drop in atmospheric CO2 over the last five million years,” said co-author John Rowan, a postdoctoral scientist from University of Massachusetts Amherst.

“Low CO2 levels favour tropical grasses over trees, and as a consequence savannas became less woody and more open through time. We know that many of the extinct megaherbivores fed on woody vegetation, so they seem to disappear alongside their food source.”

The loss of these massive herbivores may also account for other extinctions which have been attributed to ancient hominins.

Previous studies have suggested competition with increasingly carnivorous species of early human ancestors led to the demise of numerous carnivores over the last few million years. But the new study suggest an alternative.

“We know there are also major extinctions among African carnivores at this time and that some of them, like sabretooth cats, may have specialised on very large prey, perhaps juvenile elephants,” said co-author Paul Koch, of the University of California. “It could be that some of these carnivores disappeared with their megaherbivore prey.”

Professor Faith said: “Looking at all of the potential drivers of the megaherbivore decline, our analyses suggest that changing climate and environment played the key role in Africa’s past extinctions.”

The study is published in the journal Science.

====== 414 ========

NATURAL ENGLAND HAS 'LOST INDEPENDENCE' DUE TO REPEATED GOVERNMENT CUTS, CHAIRMAN WARNS MPS

Britain's nature watchdog has lost “a lot of independence” because budget cuts have left it without leaders of its own in a string of key posts, its outgoing chairman has said.

Andrew Sells told MPs that Natural England (NE) lacked a human resources director which meant staff had go to the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) to make complaints.

Mr Sells told parliament’s environment committee that was like a Metropolitan Police officer being forced to take a case of bullying to the Home Office.

The non-departmental public body sponsored by Defra, is responsible for ensuring that England's land, flora and fauna, freshwater and marine environments, geology and soils are protected and improved.

Mr Sells said that it was also missing a finance chief and communications department.

NE’s grant-in-aid has been cut by 47 per cent in the five years since he took charge, he said. This meant that funding for some of the agency’s key roles including monitoring the country’s most prized natural assets and sites of special scientific interest has dropped by even more than that because they are not ring-fenced.

Merging of office and IT functions which began as a cost-saving measure have spiralled due to “cut after cut after cut”, Mr Sells said.

“It made very good sense to have common IT systems," he told MPs. "But then we got into saying, or Defra got into saying to us and to other bodies, ‘Well actually now we’re going to integrate your finance function, and we’re going to integrate your HR function, and we’re going to integrate your press and comms function’.

“Running NE now is a very different thing from running it five years ago. I don’t have a head of comms to talk to about who we should get to this event or that, or get our stories out. If I want financial information I have to turn to someone in Defra, which I think raises quite serious questions about how the chief executive [of NE] can be the accounting officer because he hasn’t got a finance director.

“What I think started as a cost saving has run over into something which feels more like less freedom, frankly. I think, in truth, we have lost a lot of independence.”

NE has been unable to reassure partners at local level that it is doing its job because the lack of a communications team meant it could not get the word out, Mr Sells said, adding that he was aware that at times press enquiries for NE had gone through Defra’s communications team and the department had put its own spin on the responses.

“We think we have lost too much of our freedom to [get stories out],” Mr Sells said.

He added: “The difficulty is that all our money effectively comes from Defra. There’s an inherent contradiction in there – they want us to deliver their priorities, we say we’ve got 500 statutory duties and responsibilities [and] we want to deliver those. Five years ago, we could determine very largely what we did with our money and how we made the announcements. Now, we can’t.”

Cuts have even been made during the financial year, Mr Sells told the committee, specifically £6m this year.

Even though NE had been able to “generate a bit more income from our own activities and find sources of finance from everywhere”, making the total overall budget cut about one-third over five years, “it’s very hard to run any organisation with that destabilising pressure”.

Earlier this month the environment secretary was accused of “poaching” some 50 staff members from NE to help with Defra’s preparations for Brexit.

Michael Gove’s department has recruited more than 2,000 staff to work on Brexit included 400 seconded or loaned from the Environment Agency and NE.

A Defra spokesperson said: “The work of Natural England and its staff to protect our invaluable natural spaces, wildlife and environment is vital and its independence as an advisor is essential to this.

“With the government’s 25 Year Plan for the Environment, Natural England will continue to have a central role in protecting and enhancing our environment for future generations.”

====== 415 ========

UN WARNS OF 'DESTRUCTIVE AND IRREVERSIBLE IMPACTS' AS GREENHOUSE GASES HIT LEVEL NOT SEEN FOR MILLIONS OF YEARS

The greenhouse gases driving climate change have reached highs not seen in at least 3 million years, prompting UN scientists to warn the “window of opportunity” to tackle emissions is rapidly closing.

Carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane are all still on the rise, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has said, and there has been a resurgence in ozone-depleting CFCs.

“The last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of carbon dioxide was 3-5 million years ago, when the temperature was 2-3C warmer and sea level was 10-20 metres higher than now,” said WMO secretary general, Petteri Taalas.

In its annual bulletin on greenhouse gas levels, the WMO said there is no sign of a reversal in the trend in increasing emissions which are driving climate change, sea level rises, extreme weather and making oceans more acidic.

“The science is clear,” Mr Taalas said. “Without rapid cuts in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, climate change will have increasingly destructive and irreversible impacts on life on Earth.

“The window of opportunity for action is almost closed.”

Average concentrations of carbon dioxide hit new highs of 405.5 parts per million (ppm) in 2017, up from 403.3 ppm in 2016 and 400.1 ppm in 2015 – 2.5 times the pre-industrial revolution concentration.

“CO2 remains in the atmosphere for hundreds of years and in the oceans for even longer. There is currently no magic wand to remove all the excess CO2 from the atmosphere,” said WMO deputy secretary-general Elena Manaenkova.

“Every fraction of a degree of global warming matters, and so does every part per million of greenhouse gases,” she said.

Levels of methane have soared to 3.5 times their pre-industrial levels, with emissions largely coming from cattle, rice paddy fields and oil and gas leaks.

Farming methods including use of fertilizers is largely behind the rise in nitrous oxide, which has doubled since the pre-industrial era.

The latest findings come after a report from the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) found net emissions of carbon dioxide must reach zero by around 2050 to keep temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels and reduce the risks of climate change.

IPCC chairman Hoesung Lee said: “The new IPCC special report on global warming of 1.5C shows that deep and rapid reductions of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases will be needed in all sectors of society and the economy.

“The WMO greenhouse gas bulletin, showing a continuing rising trend in concentrations of greenhouse gases, underlines just how urgent these emissions reductions are.”

Professor Corinne Le Quere, director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research at the University of East Anglia, said she was “not surprised but I am very concerned” the major greenhouse gases are rising unabated.

“It seems the urgency and extent of the actions needed to address climate change have not sunk in.

“Low-carbon technologies like wind, solar, and electric transport need to become mainstream, with old-fashion polluting fossils pushed out rapidly,” she said.

Additional reporting by PA

====== 416 ========

PALM OIL WAS MEANT TO HELP SAVE THE PLANET, BUT HAS UNLEASHED AN ENVIRONMENTAL CATASTROPHE INSTEAD

The fields outside Kotawaringin village in Central Kalimantan, on the island of Borneo, looked as if they had just been cleared by armies. None of the old growth remained — only charred stumps poking up from murky, dark pools of water.

In places, smoke still curled from land that days ago had been covered with lush jungle. Villagers had burned it all down, clearing the way for a lucrative crop whose cultivation now dominates the entire island: the oil-palm tree.

The dirt road was ruler straight, but deep holes and errant boulders tossed our tiny Toyota back and forth. Trucks coughed out black smoke, their beds brimming over with seven-ton loads of palm fruit rocking back and forth on tyres as tall as people. Clear-cut expanses soon gave way to a uniform crop of oil-palm groves: orderly trees, a sign that we had crossed into an industrial palm plantation.

Oil-palm trees look like the coconut-palm trees you see on postcards from Florida — they grow to more than 60 feet tall and flourish on the peaty wetland soil common in lowland tropics. But they are significantly more valuable. Every two weeks or so, each tree produces a 50-pound bunch of walnut-size fruit, bursting with a red, viscous oil that is more versatile than almost any other plant-based oil of its kind. Indonesia is rich in timber and coal, but palm oil is its biggest export.

Around the world, the oil from its meat and seeds has long been an indispensable ingredient in everything from soap to ice cream. But it has now become a key ingredient of something else: biodiesel, fuel for diesel engines that has been wholly or partly made from vegetable oil.

Finally we emerged, and as we crested a hill, the plantations fell into an endless repetition of tidy bunches stretching for miles, looking almost like the rag of a Berber carpet. Occasionally, a shard of an old ironwood tree shot into the air, a remnant of the primordial canopy of dense rain forest that dominated the land until very recently.

Our driver, a 44-year-old island native and whistle-blower named Gusti Gelambong, had brought us here to show us the incredible destruction wrought by the growing demand for palm oil. The oldest male among nine siblings, he was modestly built but exuded a wiry strength. His father, he told us, was a king of one of Borneo’s dozens of Dayak tribes, the sixth descendant of the sultan of Old Kotawaringin, and his mother came from a line of warriors who served in the Indonesian special forces.

In 2001, he said, he took part in a brutal ethnic cleansing of Indonesians who had moved in from the nearby island of Madura. He macheted his way through the nearby town of Pangkalan Bun, slaughtering dozens of people. He felt no remorse about the violence. But the palm-oil companies, Gelambong said, were much stronger than the Madurese. As we approached an intersection, we could see two plantation guards lying back in a shack, rifles propped against their knees. He sped past the guards, averting his eyes.

Most of the plantations around us were new, their rise a direct consequence of policy decisions made half a world away. In the mid-2000s, Western nations, led by the US, began drafting environmental laws that encouraged the use of vegetable oil in fuels — an ambitious move to reduce carbon dioxide and curb global warming. But these laws were drawn up based on an incomplete accounting of the true environmental costs.

Despite warnings that the policies could have the opposite of their intended effect, they were implemented anyway, producing what now appears to be a calamity with global consequences.

The tropical rain forests of Indonesia, and in particular the peatland regions of Borneo, have large amounts of carbon trapped within their trees and soil. Slashing and burning the existing forests to make way for oil-palm cultivation had a perverse effect: It released more carbon.

A lot more carbon. NASA researchers say the accelerated destruction of Borneo’s forests contributed to the largest single-year global increase in carbon emissions in two millenniums, an explosion that transformed Indonesia into the world’s fourth-largest source of such emissions. Instead of creating a clever technocratic fix to reduce Americans' carbon footprint, lawmakers had lit the fuse on a powerful carbon bomb that, as the forests were cleared and burned, produced more carbon than the entire continent of Europe.

The unprecedented palm-oil boom, meanwhile, has enriched and emboldened many of the region’s largest corporations, which have begun using their newfound power and wealth to suppress critics, abuse workers and acquire more land to produce oil.

We arrived at another plantation and stopped near where a stream coursed through the bog. People still lived here: A mother bathed two children beneath a culvert, and a shirtless young boy ran through row after row of identical young palms in the distance, surrounded by dragonflies and sparrows. The uniformity of the world he was growing up in was striking, like the endless plains of drilling rigs in an east Texas oil field. It was, in a way, an astounding achievement, the ruthless culmination of mankind’s long effort to extract every last remaining bit of the Earth’s seemingly boundless natural wealth. But it was also frightening. This was what an American effort to save the planet looked like. It was startlingly efficient, extremely profitable and utterly disastrous.

"Oh my God, what the hell is happening here?"

The last thing anyone expected from President George W Bush’s 2007 State of the Union address was a proposal for the largest-ever cut in the nation’s use of gasoline. The president was no climate champion — he had backed out of the Kyoto Protocol shortly after taking office in 2001 — but he did favour what he called “energy independence.” He had declared the US “addicted” to foreign oil, yet dependence on Middle Eastern fuel continued. Hurricane Katrina, and the lingering damage it did to oil pipelines and refineries, had pushed up gas prices, renewed fears of global warming and kept a firm thumb on the economy.

Now, Mr Bush proposed, homegrown energy could be drawn from the rural places most in need of an economic boost. Clean-coal initiatives would generate the electricity of the future, but it was biofuels — in particular ethanol, which is largely distilled from corn, and biodiesel, made with vegetable oil — that would power the vehicles of the future. Within 10 years, the country would replace 35 billion gallons of petroleum, or one-fifth of all the gas and diesel burned, with fuel made from plants.

The measure, as he put it, would confront “the serious challenge of global climate change.” Unsaid, but clear to anyone paying attention, was that it would also please America’s agriculture industry, which had been lobbying for ethanol and advanced biofuel research for years. The House chamber erupted in applause.

On the night of the president’s address, Timothy Searchinger sat on his couch in Takoma Park, Maryland, just a few miles from the Capitol, and watched on television, struck by what seemed to him a glaring lapse in logic. “Oh, my God, what the hell is happening here?” he recalls wondering aloud.

Searchinger wasn’t a scientist; he was a lawyer, working with the Environmental Defence Fund. But he saw a serious flaw in the claim that the president’s proposal would ameliorate climate change. Searchinger knew that cropland had already consumed virtually every arable acre across the Midwest. Quintupling biofuel production would require a huge amount of additional arable land, far more than existed in the United States.

Unless Americans planned to eat less, that meant displacing food production to some other country with unused land — and he knew that when forests are cut, or new land is opened for farming, substantial new amounts of carbon can be released into the atmosphere. Forests hold as much as 45 per cent of the planet’s carbon stored on land, and old-growth trees in particular hold a great deal of that carbon, typically far more than any of the crops that replace them. When the trees are cut down, most of that carbon is released.

Scientists and lawyers who study environmental impact often deploy “carbon-life-cycle analysis” to determine just how much carbon a given product is removing from, or introducing to, the environment over the course of its production and consumption. When a truck burns biodiesel, the carbon emissions that come from its tailpipe aren’t much different from those of a truck burning petroleum. But a part of the biodiesel emissions aren’t counted, because — in theory — they have been balanced out: Plants absorb carbon from the atmosphere when they grow, and fuel experts subtract that sequestered carbon from the tailpipe emission, completing a transaction that they say balances at zero.

In ideal circumstances — un-vegetated land planted for the first time — this balancing out really happens. When corn grows, it soaks up carbon, and when it is consumed (whether as food or fuel), it releases that carbon back into the air. But the analysis breaks down when faced with the reality of land use. Almost everywhere in the world, planting more corn or soy for biofuel would involve creating more farmland, which in turn would involve cutting down whatever was already growing on that land. And that would mean releasing a huge amount of carbon into the air, with nothing to balance the books. As Searchinger watched Bush’s call for an unprecedented increase in biofuel production, his hunch was that the biofuel balance sheet would turn out to be tragically shortsighted.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, at the time a powerful 16-term Democrat from California who had presided over several failed efforts to pass climate legislation, was also sceptical about Bush’s plan. But he knew that one of the most vexing aspects of global emissions reduction was the question of how to replace transportation fuels. It was hard enough to upgrade several thousand electrical power plants to draw on wind or solar or even nuclear power. That would take years. But transforming the more than 100 million cars and trucks on America’s roads would take far longer, decades even, and in the meantime those vehicles were producing 28 per cent of carbon emissions in the United States. Waxman thought a biofuel requirement could be a turning point in climate legislation, a moment when Washington stopped pretending.

Within months of Bush’s speech, the House and the Senate were reconciling a draft of a sprawling omnibus bill that would eventually be called the Energy Independence and Security Act, or EISA. In addition to requiring car makers to improve fuel standards, a longtime priority for Democrats, the bill updated and expanded renewable-fuel standards, requiring fuel producers to mix in soy, palm and other kinds of vegetable oil with diesel fuel and to use ethanol from corn and sugar in gasoline. The bill also set tough standards for how much cleaner, in terms of carbon, each of those categories of fuel had to become — 50 per cent for diesel, 20 per cent for gas — and empowered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to judge what qualified.

The expected gains were enormous. The switch to biofuels, the EPA would later calculate, promised to stop the release of 4.5 billion tons of carbon over three decades, the equivalent of parking every single American automobile for more than seven years. Before the bill passed in December 2007, Speaker Nancy Pelosi called it “the shot heard round the world for energy independence.”

The law had a profound effect. Biodiesel production in the United States would jump from 250 million gallons in 2006 to more than 1.5 billion gallons in 2016. Imports of biodiesel to the United States surged from near zero to more than 100 million gallons a month. As fuel markets snatched up every ounce of domestic soy oil to meet the American fuel mandate, the food industry also replaced the soy it had used with something cheaper and just as good: palm oil, largely from Malaysia and Indonesia, which are the sources of nearly 90 per cent of the global supply. Lawmakers never anticipated that their well-intentioned plan — to help the climate by helping American farmers — might instead transform Indonesia and present one of the greatest threats to the planet’s tropical rain forests. But as Indonesian palm oil began to flood Western markets, that is exactly what began to happen.

“We saw great promise,” Waxman told me recently, sitting in a glass conference room at Waxman Strategies, the Washington lobbying firm of which he is chairman. But he is no longer so hopeful. He is now also the chairman of the environmental organisation Mighty Earth, which lobbies food and agriculture companies to deploy more climate-friendly production methods. In 2007, he and other lawmakers were focused on the benefits of biofuels and the bridge they promised to even greener technologies. Now the soft-spoken Waxman is far more concerned about the other side of the equation. “We didn’t think we were going to pay such a heavy price,” he said.

'No one fights for their rights'

Palm-oil producers had been lobbying American lawmakers to introduce biofuel incentives for years, and they were well prepared for the moment when the incentives became law. Wilmar — the colossal Singaporean conglomerate that controls nearly half of the global palm-oil trade — announced in 2007 that it would quadruple its biodiesel production. In Indonesia, officials directed state-owned and regional banks to make loans on more than $8 billion worth of palm-oil-related development projects and pledged to produce 5.9 billion gallons of biofuel within five years. They also announced that Indonesia would convert more than 13 million acres of additional forest to industrialised palm production. It was as if in response to a law in China, the United States undertook a plan to convert every single acre of New Jersey to soybean crops, and then threw in all of Connecticut and New Hampshire.

To make Indonesia’s plan a reality, a complicated question of land ownership had to be addressed. Much of the new development was focused on Borneo, where many villages were settled before there were nations, let alone land deeds. To create a legal basis for development, the Indonesian government established a commercial land-share system in the 1980s. In theory, the system let villages sign over development rights in return for some part of the profit. But in practice, many villagers said, companies often secured the permits they needed through some combination of intense lobbying, bribery and strong-arming, and the result was broken promises and missing payments.

Villagers were often simply outmatched by their huge negotiating partners. Wilmar was already a powerhouse in 2007, with operations in 23 countries on four continents, employing more than 60,000 people. When Wilmar said it would buy more than 200,000 acres in the states surrounding Gusti Gelambong’s village, it was a signal for others, too, to rush in. One of Indonesia’s largest conglomerates, the Salim Group — which owns Indofood, the nation’s largest maker of instant noodles — said it would pay $13 million for 200,000 acres in East and Central Kalimantan. Anthoni Salim, the company’s chief executive, was closely tied to Suharto, Indonesia’s longtime dictator who was overthrown in 1998. When the dictatorship fell, an angry mob firebombed Salim’s family mansion in Jakarta, and the new government forced him to abandon dozens of holdings. Within a few years, though, Salim had rebuilt his empire.

Even before the boom, Gelambong told me, he saw promise in the new palm industry, and he decided to stake his own welfare to it. When the large companies began to expand their timber and palm-planting to Kalimantan, they brought roads, construction and an influx of goods. They also offered jobs. By the end of 2007, Gelambong was already two years into working with a wildcat palm-oil operation, overseeing the process of putting millions of palm-tree seedlings into the ground.

The oligarchs had once brazenly plundered whole states, but Gelambong thought this time would be different. In the post-Suharto era, it was private business capitalising on free markets, and the companies promised to share profits with the smallholders — the villagers — who gave up their land. To win access to protected ancestral lands, the corporations promised schools for local children and wages that far exceeded those from harvesting jackfruit and jalut timber.

Gelambong’s company was owned by a midsize upstart named Bumitama, run not by an oligarch but by the grandson of a Chinese immigrant who moved to remote eastern Borneo and opened a grocery store in 1915. The family built a fortune out of mining and timber, and Bumitama — which sells its palm to mills run by Wilmar and has direct distribution to the American and European markets — was its palm-oil subsidiary.

As Bumitama’s plantations grew, so did Gelambong’s responsibility. He became the public liaison for Bumitama’s local operations, a company called B.G.A. — in part, he thought, because officials knew that his family held influence over the people who lived there. The deeper he got, however, the more he began to understand that many landowners weren’t being paid. As he gained access to more company documents, Gelambong said, he found new contracts where village elders had agreed to smaller and smaller shares of profit. He offered a theory: The elders, often rewarded with gifts by the companies, weren’t looking out for the interests of their people, and their people simply had no way of knowing. “No one fights for their rights, because almost no one can write or read,” he said.

In his role as liaison, Gelambong was also sometimes responsible for delivering the very gifts that local officials found so persuasive. Indonesia’s new democratic government had reached an uneasy détente with its rural islands by giving them a very long leash to run their own affairs, including the authority to issue permits for developing palm and timber. Acquiring such a permit typically required hefty contributions to one or more local political campaigns. Gelambong said he handled the small stuff; payoffs to the police, military patrols and local chiefs. (Bumitama officials say that Gelambong’s official position was in “documents and licensing,” and that while they cannot “comment on his individual doings,” Bumitama complies with anti-bribery laws.)

As the money flowed, so did the development. From 2007 to 2014, palm concessions in Kalimantan more than tripled. Bumitama alone was planting roughly 37,000 acres of palm each year. Across Indonesia, trees were cut down at a rate of three acres every minute to make room. Soon, palm plantations extended from Kotawaringin in every direction.

The palatial remains of Gelambong’s family estate still stand in Kotawaringin, their wood grayed and weathered, ringed by a tall fence capped with elongated spikes that for centuries has turned away tigers and thieves alike. It was there that Gelambong took me to retrieve a box of papers he had acquired. After leaving Bumitama in 2011, he had become the head of his village’s micro-finance group, which gave him access to records that helped explain how his former employer had been able to so thoroughly take over the village and its land in the early years of the oil-palm boom. Bumitama, it appeared from the documents, had used the micro-finance group as a kind of front to justify putting up land owned by residents as collateral for a $26 million bank loan, effectively mortgaging it to the industry’s financial backers.

Sifting through the files, he retrieved copies of three contracts the company presented to its banks. Each contained a list of signatures — purportedly those of hundreds of villagers, consenting to let the microfinance corporation control their land and represent their views to the bank. Gelambong pointed to the long rows of names. Dozens of these people, he said, couldn’t read or write. When he asked some of them about their names in the document, they told him that they had never seen the paper before and that the signature on it wasn’t theirs. At least six of the signatures were from people who had died before the oil-palm companies arrived.

The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, a voluntary global governance organisation for the industry, is formally investigating Gelambong’s claims. Bumitama officials said that nothing about their deal in Kotawaringin was improper; the company had the consent of village representatives, and it had undergone due diligence from the banks. A spokesman for Wilmar said that it abides by its sustainability commitments and was watching the Bumitama land inquiry closely but that the company’s internal monitoring program had not yet triggered any alerts about Bumitama’s subsidiary outside Tanjung Puting National Park.

Gelambong’s discovery had left him cynical about the industry that had overtaken his home. Promises had given way to despair, and he was humbled by the belief that he and others were suckered into giving up their only true assets. Now they were fighting simply for the right to take back a small sliver of land to farm for themselves.

'It was really sort of shocking'

Timothy Searchinger spent a year researching cropland demand, and in February 2008, just two months after Bush signed the biofuels mandate into law, he and eight co-authors published their findings in the journal Science. It was a rare coup for a layman — peer-reviewed scientific journals seldom take an interest in the work of activist lawyers — but Searchinger had done something important. He had tried to quantify how increasing the demand for biofuel would change land use. According to his calculations, the ripple effects from land use would be so great that ethanol wasn’t going to be better for the climate at all; instead, it would create nearly double the greenhouse-gas emissions of conventional fuels.

How was this possible? A typical life-cycle analysis adds up just the carbon emissions involved in the chain of fuel production and use: the carbon produced by burning the fuel, the carbon spit out by the tractor in the field, the carbon produced by the fertilizer manufacturer and so on. By this accounting, vegetable-oil-based biofuel fares well against petroleum fuels, reducing CO₂ emissions by as much as 80 per cent.

What that analysis does not take into account, though, is that there is only so much land. The supposed carbon gains of plant-based fuels have to be offset, Searchinger argued in subsequent papers, by one of three things: reducing food consumption, increasing yields from existing cropland or — most likely — creating entirely new cropland, probably in the countries with the largest “underutilised” forests. And the typical analysis doesn’t count the carbon produced by cutting down these forests or — if that deforestation happens to take place in Indonesia — emissions from disturbing the extremely carbon-rich peatland soils that much of the forest grows upon.

Jeremy Martin, a fuel-policy expert with the Union of Concerned Scientists, said that before Searchinger’s research was published, the significance of land-use change had been dismissed. “It was really sort of shocking,” Martin said. Climate scientists quickly agreed on the general notion that land use was an important factor to take into account, but there the consensus ended. The numbers varied depending on who did the analysis using what model, and as the research evolved, few could agree on the scale of the problem.

Predicting how people will use land can be challenging. Scientists use a suite of complex models to try to capture the nuance of interactions among commodity prices, vegetation coverage, carbon content of that vegetation, fuel use, the weather and the global political situation.

Accounting for the “substitution effect,” which describes the way more or less interchangeable commodities like palm and soybean oil tend to be swapped out for one another as buyers seek the lowest price, has proved to be a particularly challenging problem. The American biofuels law, for instance, was designed to support soybean and corn farmers, not palm-oil producers. But the United States began increasing foreign palm-oil imports nonetheless — they more than doubled by 2017 — in large part because so much of the domestic soybean production that once went to food was now being used for fuel. Much of that palm oil went to food production. But the increased use of palm oil in food production was largely a by-product of the increased fuel-oil production. (In Europe, which also passed a biofuels mandate in 2009 and uses large amounts of palm-based biodiesel directly in its vehicles, the calculation was simpler.)

Wrangling precisely how much palm demand resulted from using a gallon of soy for fuel, and how much rain-forest carbon, in Indonesia for example, might be emitted as a result, became a question that was increasingly influenced by political factors. The E.P.A., in 2009, made one of the most significant efforts to model and predict the carbon from biofuels, using three of the most established models and an overlay of satellite imagery of agricultural lands around the world, including those in Indonesia. The agency determined that the carbon footprint of land-use changes overshadowed any other consideration, and not by a small margin. In fact, when land changes were accounted for, the climate benefit of biofuels was entirely wiped away. Because a huge pulse of emissions comes from land change immediately after forests are cut, the EPA concluded that it would take 32 years before biodiesel from soybean oil was truly net-zero for carbon on an annual basis, and a century for it to reach the level of benefit required under the law.

But that finding did not last long. The agriculture industry went to war to save the mandate they worked so hard to put in place. They lobbied the EPA to abandon its consideration of indirect land-use change, describing it as a “radical” approach that could hold American farmers responsible for business decisions made by villagers halfway around the world. They supported research suggesting that the EPA had overestimated the expansion of crops into tropical rain forests and said farmers were getting better crop yields off the same land than the models had acknowledged.

By the time the EPA released its final rule in early 2010, it had made a complete about-face. Its models now found that the impact from land-use changes were almost negligible. For Indonesia, the EPA estimated that just 110,000 acres of forest would be converted to cropland as a result of the American biofuels law, and almost none of it on sensitive peatland. It also extended the scope of its analysis to 2022, which had the effect of minimising the short-term emissions. And it worked: Corn ethanol just barely cleared the law’s hurdle, and soybean biodiesel suddenly appeared to be vastly cleaner than regular diesel.

It was nearly two years later that the EPA issued its analysis of palm oil; it said in a cursory three-page draft rule that palm oil did in fact fall short of the EPA's bar, because of its direct impact on Indonesian forests. And that analysis, which remains in draft form today, simply ignores the substitution effect — which, calculated in any form, would suggest an even greater carbon cost.

Searchinger, who now is a research scholar at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, argues today that instead of developing evermore complex models, it makes more sense to step back and consider some simple logic: Land has competing uses, and taking more of it for agriculture has to have some consequence for the climate. “We could be off by 100 per cent,” he says of his biofuels findings, “and it’s still incredibly bad.”

'It's all a deception'

After the palm-oil companies gained control of the land, the clearing began. The fastest method was to rip out the forests with excavators and torch what remained. In 2015, the fires spread out of control. Kalimantan — and most of Indonesia, for that matter — was overwhelmed by billowing clouds of smoke and ash, visible from hundreds of miles away. NASA satellites detected more than 120,000 hot spots. As far away as Singapore and the Thai islands, people covered their faces with masks and prayed that their air-conditioners could filter out the soot. The smoke was so thick that Zenzi Suhadi, a leading activist with the Indonesian environmental group Walhi, was unable to land at Pangkalan Bun airport the day he was supposed to arrive late that September. Nor could he land the next day. But Suhadi needed to get closer — right into the heart of the flames.

A biologist who wrote his thesis on Indonesia’s wild orchids, Suhadi switched to environmental work because he thought it could have broader impact. He has taken on the pulp and paper, logging and palm industries with a zeal that seems to grind against his quiet, soft-spoken nature. At 37, he has been riotous and unflagging in the face of powerful government ministers, corporate lawyers and even would-be assassins — all of whom he has faced off with at one time or another.

Forest fires are an annual event in Indonesia — sparked in the dry early fall as village farmers clear their fields and then extinguished by the monsoons. But this year was different. NASA officials said they were the worst fires they’d ever observed. Indonesians suffering from the effects of smoke inhalation were streaming into hospitals by the tens of thousands. Researchers at Columbia and Harvard later estimated that the fires led to 100,000 premature deaths. And the fires wouldn’t stop. Suhadi, long a critic of how the palm-oil companies managed their plantations, feared that they had now done something cataclysmic.

His team — including an American conservationist from Friends of the Earth and Gusti Gelambong as a guide — had already arrived in Kalimantan. Now he asked them to continue on without him, travelling west towards Kotawaringin and to the jungle of Tanjung Puting National Park. The only way to learn the truth of what was unfolding was to investigate it for themselves.

What the Walhi crew found that week in Kalimantan was not just deforestation and misery but a virtual hole ripped into one of the largest banks of concentrated carbon in existence. At every turn — by motorbike and motorboat — shards of burnt stumps, a crop of shimmering silvery charcoal, stuck out from the blackened earth like gravestones. This apocalyptic landscape stretched as far as they could see, punctuated by only the rare tuft of scorched but otherwise healthy juvenile palm. They traced what they describe as telltale signs that the fires had been started by the palm companies — which is illegal and which all the palm-oil companies strongly deny doing, but which is also the fastest, cheapest way to raze the land.

The process is simple and devastating. First, workers bring in excavators to cut deep trenches across the swampland. These quickly fill with water that drains from the adjacent forest, thereby creating canals that serve as near-instant inroads on which to transport heavy machinery by boat or barge. With the machinery, the forests are cut down, their timber efficiently removed, and the swampy peatland they sit on is left to drain and dry. Once it’s dried, it’s burned.

In most of the places the Walhi crew visited, the fires appeared to have been extinguished, but the earth remained hot, smouldering underground. And this — more than the landscape destruction itself — was what concerned the group most. The dried and decaying peatland soil in this part of Borneo would almost certainly continue to burn for many more months, even years, releasing volumes of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere that far exceeded those from the rain-forest deforestation itself.

Peatland is boggy, waterlogged ground, loaded with layers of decomposing plants that can’t get enough oxygen to support the microorganisms that would normally break them down. So they accumulate, layer by layer, season by season, compressing into a dense, black carbon-rich mud of partly decayed matter that sinks below the shallow water table and is preserved there in an anaerobic state. Left alone for a couple hundred million more years, the peat would solidify into coal.

Exposed peatland can spew carbon into the atmosphere for decades, even centuries, after the land is first disturbed. Indonesia’s peatland destruction — just the amount that has already occurred — is roughly the equivalent of opening 70 new, large coal-fired power plants. And if even a fraction of these emissions are counted as land-change effects in the process of evaluating biofuels, the scales are forcefully tipped. “It’s all a deception,” Suhadi said. “There is no sustainability.”

Globally, peatlands from Norway to Brazil hold a volume of carbon equivalent to 21 per cent of the entire carbon content in the earth’s soil. Indonesia’s peatlands alone (which are greater in size than others anywhere in the world except for those in Russia and Canada) now emit more than 500 megatons of CO₂ each year, an amount greater than the entire annual emissions of the state of California. Peatland forests hold 12 times as much carbon as other tropical rain forests around the world. This makes destroying them one of the planet’s greatest threats — and protecting them one of the most accessible opportunities to curb rising global emissions.

The peatland problem had been known for some time. It’s one reason that six of the world’s leading carbon-modelling schemes, including the EPA's, have concluded that biodiesel made from Indonesian palm oil makes the global carbon problem worse, not better. The World Agroforestry Center found that peatland-based biodiesel could produce nearly four times the emissions of petroleum diesel. In 2011, the government began a process to survey and designate millions of acres of Indonesia as protected peatland. In 2013, Wilmar signed a pledge to avoid peatland from inside the industry, and other companies eventually followed. American investors and regulators have taken solace in these pledges, assuming that they have lessened the environmental threat. And yet in 2015, as the peat fires raged aboveground and below, Suhadi could see only that none of that mattered.

"We call them shadow companies"

In early July, I travelled to Kalimantan to investigate rumours that large-scale illegal peatland logging operations were still underway. Gelambong met me in a shaded garden behind my hotel. He was deeply uncomfortable and believed he was being followed. We switched tables to move farther into the yard, away from the town officials he suspected were listening. Gelambong’s life hadn’t been the same since he went public with documents accusing Bumitama of seizing his village’s land. The company accused him of embezzlement, and he was arrested in 2016. He spent six months in the Pangkalan Bun jail before a judge determined that there was no evidence to hold him and dismissed the charges.

The palm companies keep getting stronger. In 2014, Indonesia’s highest judge and three associates were convicted in a huge bribery scandal that journalists have linked to palm land deals in Borneo. A few years later, a Kalimantan governor was caught granting palm concessions to family members, who flipped them back to the companies that paid for his election. Stories of corruption, and threats to keep it quiet, were legion. I was reminded of the threats that Suhadi had described — a series of anonymous phone calls and an intimidating run-in at a market in Jakarta. Suhadi went dark for several weeks as a result — hiding out in a friend’s house outside the city. His fear was justified. In 2015, one of Suhadi’s colleagues was stabbed to death outside a Jakarta nightclub in a case that news reports speculated was linked to his environmental work, and Global Witness has counted at least eight assassinations of Indonesian environmentalists fighting palm oil.

Gelambong drove us out of downtown that afternoon, to the ramshackle waterfront port of Kumai. There, he turned us over to a boat pilot, and we squeezed into a tiny wedge of wood and fibreglass with a large outboard engine. We motored past derelict anchored ocean tankers, towards the entrance to Tanjung Puting National Park.

Tanjung Puting is one of Indonesia’s most protected and beloved landscapes, rimmed by mangrove swamps around a core of heath forests that are home to orangutans, proboscis monkeys, clouded leopards and sun bears, as well as some 230 species of birds. Its 1,100 square miles of peatland bogs are one of the last remnants of an ecosystem that used to dominate the southern coast of Borneo; Gelambong said its peatland bogs once stretched most of the way from here to Kotawaringin, two hours by truck. Ecotourists come from around the world to see what remains of them, cruising the Sekonyer River on private klotoks, long wooden ships outfitted with netted open-air bedrooms.

The exception to the devastation of South Kalimantan is supposed to be the national parks. But the parks are not safe, either. As our boat cruised out the mouth of the Kumai River, a teacup skipping over the white caps into the open sea, our guide, Fajar Dewanto, warned us that a large part of the park was threatened by palm development. Dewanto works for Orangutan Foundation International, a group that has resettled many of the more than 5,000 orangutans here in the park. But because it’s the widespread conversion of the land to monoculture plantations that threatens the orangutan habitat, Dewanto has also become a de facto park ranger, policing the forest where officials don’t have enough staff, or willingness, to do it themselves.

A week before our arrival, Dewanto’s team found the rigid body of an orangutan, half buried under a fallen log next to a scar of freshly cut forest in a peat bog being razed for a new palm plantation. They turned the orangutan over. It was riddled with bullet holes to the chest, arm and thigh. As more than a dozen police officers and wildlife experts established a crime scene, an excavator continued ripping down trees on the peat bog behind them, unwilling to lose even a day of progress.

Dewanto couldn’t get the scene out of his head. As our boat rounded a small point of mangroves towards a little-visited swatch of parkland, he wasn’t sure what he would find. Our captain slowed the motor and turned into a small tributary crowded with nipa, a stalky canel-ike plant that is a food staple for native people here, and from there we navigated into a recently dredged canal no wider than 10 feet. Dewanto had been here one month earlier and seen forest. Now the forest was gone.

This level of deforestation on protected peatland supposedly wasn’t happening anymore. In Jakarta, a string of officials — from the government palm-oil agency, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the palm-industry association, the Peatland Restoration Agency — all denied to me that peat deforestation in Kalimantan still took place. Uniformly, they insisted that Indonesia had learned its lesson and solved its palm-oil problem, that peatland bans were in full force. Restoration was even underway, they claimed, painting a picture of a palm industry on a sustainable path — farming only on dry land and focused on increasing yields, not expanding footprints.

But where we stood, a broad expanse had been laid bare, the splinters of wood still so fresh they were pungent, crisscrossed by deep pools of black, boggy water. About a mile back, the tree line marked the new edge of Tanjung Puting National Park, a threshold protecting the largest population of orangutans left in the world. Beside an idle excavator, 24-inch tufts of baby palms had been set in rows, the mound of dirt around their base still fresh from planting. Dewanto wasn’t particularly surprised to find the devastation. “This is every day in Borneo,” he said.

In government documents from 2011, this field was mapped not only as protected peatland but also as part of the national park. When the Walhi group visited during the fires of 2015, the forest was still protected. Records show, however, that a nearby village petitioned the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry to carve the plantation out of the park, and this allowed Bumitama, which farms there along with the village, to expand its operation. The government agreed. The park got smaller.

A few days later, we drove north, 20 hours on punishing mountain roads, towards the Malaysian border and the West Kalimantan district of Sintang. There, a meeting was planned with the local county governor, or bupati, to discuss a similar situation.

North of Sintang, a grim commercial town of concrete and rebar at a fork in the Kapuas River, two palm plantations were being developed on peatland bogs. These plantations, too, were located on tracts that Indonesian government maps had at one time explicitly labelled protected peatland, which should have placed them under the moratorium on palm development. The maps had since been changed. Yet there was no mistaking that this was peatland: Paths submerged into black goop, teams of dragonflies swarmed over the hot water, reeds and forest grew from their depths. And here came a flatbed truck, carrying an excavator towards the entrance gate, where a guard in a neatly pressed dark blue uniform turned away visitors.

The permits named two obscure companies, but a villager at the gate told us that he thought both plantations were run by the same company and that it had been clearing the forest for months. It’s not uncommon for Indonesian companies to use layers of subsidiaries to hide their connections to illegal palm operations. “We call them shadow companies,” said Eric Wakker, a founder of Aidenvironment Asia, an environmental consultancy that has investigated the two plantations. Upon further scrutiny, it appeared that the two companies may indeed have been linked to the Salim Group. They shared a business address with a Salim subsidiary in Jakarta and employed the same plantation managers in Kalimantan. Salim was also a buyer of the palm that would come from the Sintang plantations.

The connection matters because the Salim Group has benefited from more than $1.5 billion in loans and capital from foreign investors, including the American firms BlackRock and Vanguard, and Salim companies have pledged that their palm oil is not a product of recent deforestation or peatland destruction. Satellite images from 2017 confirmed that the forests on the Sintang plantations were now virtually gone. (A Salim Group executive, Mark Wakeford, declined to comment about the Sintang companies).

At the bupati’s house, an elegant, 19th-century Dutch-built compound bursting with tropical flowers, I pressed him to explain how these peatland forests could be cut down when the government insisted that such land clearing had stopped. The bupati, a doctor named Jarot, had moved to Borneo from Java and had developed a local reputation as a conservationist. He greeted us jovially, barefoot and dressed in bluejeans and a crisp, untucked blue button-down shirt. He said the rural districts must balance economic growth with sustainability, and while he has pledged to control corruption and illegal permits, he also described himself as helpless against the currents of a central government that is close to the big corporations and constantly changes both the rules and the playing field. United Nations forest programmes pay communities to leave their trees in the ground. Such funding would help him strike a better balance here, he said, casually shrugging off the plantation case I asked about. “We do what we can do,” Jarot said. “We cannot do it by ourselves. … We need a fiscal incentive.”

An aide offered a more nuanced explanation. The phrases “peatland” and “forest” have distinct legal meanings in Indonesia, he claimed; not all treed areas are forests, and not all peat-filled bogs are peatland. In the strictest legal sense, he was correct. The Sintang regency alone, according to Indonesian government estimates, contains more than 160,000 acres of old-growth, heavily treed land that it has not designated as “forest” under the law and more than 86,000 acres of non-designated peatland. After a request from the companies, the government maps for Sintang were revised to change the peatland borders. New maps show the bog boundaries tracing perfect 90-degree angles and stight lines — lines that happen to match the boundaries of the companies’ land holdings. How do you account for such details in a life-cycle analysis?

"It was a mistake"

This September, with late-season heat pounding Washington, Zenzi Suhadi cleared security at the Russell Senate Office Building, preparing to brief Senate aides about the impact that palm-oil development was having on Indonesia’s environment. I asked if he was nervous, and he said no. “These are just people. I don’t have to face any tigers.” He didn’t seem to be joking.

Suhadi wanted to tell the lawmakers the same thing he told them in two previous visits to Capitol Hill: that the palm trade, driven by American investment, is slowly killing his country. “It’s important for you to understand that all acts of deforestation in Indonesia start with a signature,” he said. “And more than a little of it starts right here.” He was not confident that he would be heard — the last time he visited Washington, lawmakers chewed up their time asking him about water buffalo in his village. But still he felt compelled to speak.

From Washington, Suhadi travelled to San Francisco to attend a climate march and address a group of hedge-fund investors. Just down the street, Michael Bloomberg implored strong immediate action on emissions reductions at the Global Climate Action Summit, one of the nation’s largest gatherings on climate goals. But the conference was light on substance when it came to the subject of forests. There was scarcely any mention of peatland at all.

When Nancy Pelosi took the stage, she looked back on the 2007 fuel-economy bill and biofuels mandate she shepherded into law. The initiative should be credited, she said, with “charting a new path to clean energy, reducing emissions, increasing the use of renewables.” She made no mention of Indonesia. When I asked her about the deforestation in an earlier email, her office wrote back defending the bill, citing the Union of Concerned Scientists and arguing that even with the Indonesian forest effect accounted for, biodiesels were cleaner than fossil fuels. “Bottom line,” the office responded, “the biofuels in your tank are better for the planet than 100 per cent fossil fuels.”

Henry Waxman, of course, doesn’t agree. He said Congress was so focused on domestic climate policy that it failed to see the repercussions of those policies around the world — repercussions that now seem obvious. “We’ve created a situation that is so contrary to what we had hoped for,” he said. “We’re doing more harm to the environment. It was a mistake.”

The advanced cellulosic-biofuels program that once seemed so promising has been a failure. It never attracted the investment it needed, and the E.P.A. has allowed biodiesel to serve as a substitute in meeting the mandate. President Trump has wandered into the renewable-fuels-standard debate, too, and found himself caught in a thicket, at one moment poised to reform the fuel standard completely and the very next snagged by the interest of a powerful agriculture industry grown accustomed to its enormous benefit. The result is likely to be at least a near-term doubling down on American biofuels use, no matter the cost.

It may no longer be possible to slow the momentum behind Indonesia’s palm markets. Sitting in the lavish dining room of the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Jakarta in July, over an awkward meal of mushroom consommé and blanched scallops, officials from Indonesia’s Palm Oil Development Fund made a case for their industry. I asked how important the American biofuels mandate has been, given that other countries buy more Indonesian palm oil than Americans do. The answer was unequivocal: It’s what got Indonesian palm off the ground. “The US is not only a market,” said Ruddy Gobel, the chief political adviser to the director. “It also sets the global agenda.” Now, according to the Indonesian development officials, 80 million Indonesians depend economically on palm oil, and nearly half the industry consists of individual landowners like the people in Kotawaringin. “If you pull out biofuel, the whole system will collapse,” said Dono Boestami, the fund’s director.

====== 417 ========

DEAD WHALE WASHES UP ON INDONESIAN BEACH WITH OVER 1,000 PIECES OF PLASTIC IN ITS STOMACH

A dead whale washed up on a beach in eastern Indonesia had more than 1,000 pieces of plastic waste in its stomach, including drinking cups and flip-flops, officials have said.

Rescuers at the Wakatobi National Park found the rotting carcass of the 9.5m sperm whale on Monday night near the park in Southeast Sulawesi province.

They had received a report from environmentalists that villagers had surrounded the whale and were beginning to butcher the rotting carcass, park chief Heri Santoso said.

Researchers from wildlife conservation group WWF and the park’s conservation academy found about 5.9kg of plastic waste in the animal’s stomach.

Among the debris was 115 plastic cups, four plastic bottles, 25 plastic bags, two flip-flops, a nylon sack and more than 1,000 other pieces of plastic, Mr Santoso said.

“Although we have not been able to deduce the cause of death, the facts that we see are truly awful,” said Dwi Suprapti, a marine species conservation coordinator at WWF Indonesia.

She said it was not possible to determine if the plastic had caused the whale’s death because of the animal’s advanced state of decay.

Indonesia is the world’s second-largest plastic polluter behind China, according to a study in the journal Science published in January.

The archipelago of 260 million people produces 3.2 million tons of mismanaged plastic waste a year, of which 1.29 million tons ends up in the ocean, the study said.

Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan, Indonesia’s coordinating minister of maritime affairs, said the whale’s discovery should raise public awareness about the need to reduce plastic use, and had spurred the government to take tougher measures to protect the ocean.

“I’m so sad to hear this,” said Mr Pandjaitan, who has for less use of plastic.

“It is possible that many other marine animals are also contaminated with plastic waste and this is very dangerous for our lives.”

He said the government was making efforts to reduce the use of plastic, including urging shops not to provide plastic bags for customers and teaching about the problem in schools to meet a government target of reducing plastic use by 70 per cent by 2025.

“This big ambition can be achieved if people learn to understand that plastic waste is a common enemy,” he added.

====== 418 ========

TERMITES HAVE BEEN BUILDING HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF HUGE MOUNDS FOR 4,000 YEARS – AND NOW SCIENTISTS KNOW WHY

A termite super-colony which spans an area the size of Great Britain has been under construction since the time of the pyramids in ancient Egypt, scientists have found.

Researchers studying the vast landscape of 200 million cone-shaped mounds in northeast Brazil sampled soil from 11 locations and found that some began construction around 3,820 years ago.

At around 2.5 metres tall, 9 metres wide at the base, and spread across 230,000 square kilometres, it represents a vast earth-moving endeavour – but the mounds are not individual termite nests.

Instead, each one is a “waste point” where termite workers dump soil and other matter excavated in the production of a vast subterranean tunnel network which they have used to traverse the landscape in search of food for millennia.

The authors of a new study, published in the journal Current Biology, said the “biological wonder” was akin to those of the ancient world, but with the civilisation that built it still in residence.

“This is apparently the world’s most extensive bioengineering effort by a single insect species,” said Roy Funch of Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana in Brazil, one of the authors of the report.

“Perhaps most exciting of all – the mounds are extremely old – up to 4,000 years, similar to the ages of the pyramids.”

The mounds are largely hidden from view by caatinga, an assortment of thorny, desert-like vegetation unique to Brazil, and were only revealed to international scientists a few decades ago as the land was cleared for pasture.

Now sampling from the oldest mounds has revealed the area is of comparable age to some of the oldest termite colony structures known to exist in Africa, while others began construction around 600 years ago.

They have developed in response to the drought-sculpted environment where the annual leaf fall is a boom time for harvesting food, punctuated by long periods where resources are more scarce.

“These mounds were formed by a single termite species that excavated a massive network of tunnels to allow them to access dead leaves to eat safely and directly from the forest floor,” said Professor Stephen Martin, a social insect expert from the University of Salford and another of the authors.

“The amount of soil excavated is over 10 cubic kilometres, equivalent to 4,000 great pyramids of Giza, and represents one of the biggest structures built by a single insect species.

“It’s incredible that, in this day and age, you can find an ‘unknown’ biological wonder of this sheer size and age still existing, with the occupants still present.”

The mounds are not the only entry points to the tunnel network – termites emerging at night to scavenge use dozens of smaller entrances between each waste point.

By inspecting mounts cut in half by road building projects, Professor Martin and colleagues also showed they lack the complex honeycomb of tunnels usually associated with a termite nest.

Instead each includes a single large central tunnel – measuring 10 cm across – connecting to the underground tunnel network and a series of horizontal “galleries” containing dead leaves or larvae.

“The tunnels are never left open to the environment, ruling out their use as a ventilation system,” which left them puzzled as to how and why they had been created at such regular intervals.

One theory is that each mound was from a competing colony, but when they transferred termites to a rival neighbouring mound they were not swarmed and attacked.

This suggests that the termites intermingle underground, sharing the tunnel network out of necessity tor collect food. However, when the test was repeated with termites from mounds 50km away the attack response was immediate, suggesting limits to their cooperation.

Shared pheromone scent cues used across the tunnel network are the key way to identify local neighbours. Professor Martin and his colleagues suggest that these scent markers may direct termites to each mound point to ensure maximum efficiency and leading to the equal spacing.

====== 419 ========

GREENPEACE ACTIVISTS DETAINED AFTER BOARDING PALM OIL TANKER OFF SPAIN

Six Greenpeace activists who boarded a tanker transporting palm oil off the coast of Spain have been detained by the ship’s captain, the campaign group has said..

The protesters unfurled banners reading “Save our Rainforest” and “Drop Dirty Palm Oil” from the tanker in the Gulf of Cadiz on Saturday.

Greenpeace said its volunteers – from Britain, Germany, France, Canada, Indonesia and the US – were being held in a cabin on the ship.

A ship tracking website shows the Stolt Tenacity, which Greenpeace claims is carrying palm oil to the Netherlands, was charted by Wilmar International – a company linked to rainforest destruction in Indonesia.

“We have limited radio contact with our volunteers and have called on the ship’s captain to free them so they can continue to peacefully protest against companies like Wilmar,” said Greenpeace campaigner Hannah Martin, speaking from on board the group’s own ship Esperanza.

Greenpeace said the Stolt Tenacity’s captain was informed in advance via marine VHF radio that the protest, staged Saturday, would be peaceful.

Palm oil is used in a huge array of consumer goods, from make-up to snacks. Wilmar International supplies Mondelez, the maker of Oreo cookies and Cadbury chocolate, with the edible oil.

The substance gained widespread attention in the UK earlier this month when Iceland released a Christmas advert featuring an orangutan mourning the destruction of his rainforest home by palm oil growers.

“Hundreds of thousands of consumers from all over the world have had enough of forest destruction,” said Yeb Sano, executive director at Greenpeace Southeast Asia.

In September, Greenpeace activists occupied a palm oil processing facility belonging to Wilmar International on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi.

The group scaled the refinery and painted “DIRTY” on the storage tanks, while Indonesia rock band Boomerang performed on top of the tanks.

====== 420 ========

NEW ZEALAND ASKS VISITORS TO PLEDGE TO PROTECT ENVIRONMENT AMID CONCERNS OVER IMPACT OF TOURISM

New Zealand has launched a campaign urging visitors to respect the environment, amid concerns over the impact of tourism on the country.

Passengers on flights into the nation will be shown videos promoting the “Tiaki promise”, a set of guiding principles drawn up by the government and the tourism industry.

“Tiaki” means to “care for” in New Zealand’s indigenous Maori language.

The campaign encourages visitors to pledge they will protect the country’s natural environment and respect local customs during their trip.

In the two-minute video, a voiceover says: “New Zealand is our home. It is precious. Everyone who lives and travels here has a responsibility to look after it”.

Tourism has thrived in New Zealand in recent years, overtaking the dairy industry as the nation’s leading source of foreign income in 2016.

Over the past year, about 3.8 million tourists visited the country, which has a resident population of just under five million. The largest numbers of tourists came from Australia, China and the United States.

Stephen England-Hall, the chief executive of Tourism New Zealand, said that without specific guidance, tourists often default to behaving as they do at home.

“In some parts of the world, it’s common to litter, and people are paid to pick up the litter,” he said. “If we don’t say ‘don’t litter,’ people will. And in the peak season, it can be a problem.”

There is said to be growing resentment among New Zealanders at the increasing popularity of so-called “freedom camping”, in which tourists pitch a tent or stay in a motor home outside of a designated camping area to save money. A lack of toilets and trash bins mean they often leave a mess behind.

Mr England-Hall said the new campaign was not specifically directed at freedom campers but was designed to send a broader message. He said he hopes tourists will search for information about the Tiaki promise online or be informed at places such as car rental agencies.

The campaign will also be promoted on its website and social media.

It also reminds tourists to respect Maori culture, prepare properly for hiking and other outdoor activities, and drive on the left side of the road.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 421 ========

CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES: TRUMP BLAMES FOREST MANAGEMENT DURING TOUR OF DEVASTATION AND SAYS ‘I WANT GREAT CLIMATE’

Donald Trump insisted he had not changed his mind on climate change after witnessing the devastation caused by the California wildfires.

“I have a strong opinion,” the US president told reporters as he assessed the damage from one of the blazes that has so far claimed the lives of 71 people, while more than a thousand are missing.

“I want great climate, we are going to have that and we are going to have forests that are very safe.”

Mr Trump, who was wearing a camouflage “USA” hat, appeared to lay the blame for the fires on forest management.

“We’ve got to take care of the floors, you know the floors of the forest, very important,” he said. “You look at other countries where they do it differently and it’s a whole different story.

“I was with the president of Finland and he said … we’re a forest nation, he called it a forest nation, and they spend a lot of time on raking and cleaning and doing things. They don’t have any problem, and what it is, it’s a very small problem.”

The president’s comments echoed his original reaction to the worst wildfires in the state’s history, when he pointed the finger at “gross mismanagement” for the catastrophic wildfires and threatened to withhold federal aid.

Authorities are still trying to locate more than 1,000 people as more than 5,500 fire personnel battle the Camp Fire which covers 228 square miles and is 50 per cent contained.

Mr Trump arrived in California on Saturday to be met by Democrat governor Jerry Brown, governor-elect Gavin Newsom, also a Democrat, and the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema), Brock Long.

The president took a helicopter tour en route to Chico before being given a tour of the town of Paradise.

Surrounded by scorched trees, burnt-out buses and cars, crumbling foundations of wrecked houses and a Mickey Mouse lawn ornament, Mr Trump referred to the wildfire which began on 8 November as “this monster”.

“We’re going to have to work quickly ... hopefully this is going to be the last of these because this was a really, really bad one," he said.

“I think everybody’s seen the light and I don’t think we’ll have this again to this extent.”

After viewing what remained of the Skyway Villa Mobile Home and RV Park, he said: ”I think people have to see this really to understand it.”

The president later toured an operation centre, met with response commanders and praised the work of firefighters, law enforcement and representatives of Fema.

“They’re out there fighting and they’re fighting like hell,” Trump said of the first responders. ”We’ve never seen anything like this in California. It’s total devastation.”

Before leaving the area he said he planned to discuss forest management with the Democrat governor and governor-elect. “The one thing is that everybody now knows that this is what we have to be doing and there’s no question about it,” he said.

“It should have been done many years ago, but I think everybody’s on the right side.”

Governor Brown is a fierce advocate of addressing climate change, but did not respond to the president’s comments.

“If you really look at the facts, from a really open point of view, there are a lot of elements to be considered,” Mr Brown said.

“The president came, he saw and I’m looking forward over the next months and beyond to really understand this threat of fire, the whole matter of drought and all the rest of it. It’s not one thing, it’s a lot of things and I think that if we just open our minds and look at things we’ll get more stuff done.”

In a Fox News interview due to air on Sunday, Mr Trump accepted that ”maybe it [climate change] contributes a little bit,” before adding. “The big problem we have is management.”

The president was due to return to Washington on Saturday night after meeting the victims of the shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California, on 7 November.

Additional reporting by Associated Press

====== 422 ========

GOVERNMENT SPENDING FOREIGN AID MONEY TO PROMOTE FRACKING IN CHINA

Taxpayers’ money earmarked to support overseas development has been spent on supporting China’s fracking industry, The Independent can reveal.

The government is required to spend 0.7 per cent of its national income each year on foreign aid.

But even with climate change threatening the developing world with droughts, flooding and heatwaves, millions have been spent on fossil fuel investment abroad over the past two years.

This includes two schemes aiming to “export the UK’s expertise in shale gas regulation” to China, as controversy about new drilling sites rages back in Britain.

“Global efforts to tackle poverty are now taking place in a rapidly changing climate which is driving more extreme weather, more acute disasters, and hitting the poorest first and hardest,” said Tom Viita from Christian Aid.

“It is a flagrant misuse of the UK’s aid budget to fund the fossil fuel industry overseas when the priority must be shifting to low carbon energy and boosting climate resilience.”

In a report seen by The Independent, energy watchdog Platform revealed £2m from the government’s Prosperity Fund for overseas economic development has been used to expand the oil and gas sectors in nations including Brazil, Mexico and India.

This cross-departmental fund was set up to “remove barriers to economic growth in order to reduce poverty ... and [support] the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals”.

While the fund is allowed to be spent on fossil fuel development, given that one of those UN goals is to urgently combat climate change, campaigners questioned why it was financing 16 projects extracting these high-polluting fuels.

They also criticised the use of money explicitly set aside to “reduce poverty” to build projects that offer a helping hand to UK businesses.

Theresa May announced over the summer that money from the foreign aid budget could be spent on boosting the British private sector abroad.

Twelve of the 16 fossil fuel projects supported by the Prosperity Fund between 2016-2018 made references to creating opportunities for companies in other nations including the UK.

Anna Markova, who authored the report, said this hinted at why certain projects had been chosen, with British firms like BP known to be exploring shale gas extraction in China.

“They are kind of going: ‘well, where are the big oil and gas deposits that British companies want to access – OK, let’s go there’,” she said.

Kate Osamor, the shadow international development secretary, said: “The Tory government using the UK’s aid money to help their friends in the oil and gas industry get rich is a disgraceful misuse of the UK aid budget.

“It is an insult to the British public and our climate change commitments to be doing this at the same time that the world’s leading climate scientists are warning that we only have a matter of years to halt a climate catastrophe.”

Ms Markova said the funds should instead be exclusively supporting a global transition away from fossil fuels towards renewable sources.

“They are kind of shooting themselves in the foot, because they know their mission is to support the transition to a zero carbon economy,” she said.

China has one of the world’s largest reserves of shale gas, but extracting it would require fracking on a massive scale. This would have enormous water requirements in a nation already facing a national freshwater shortage.

With a total spend of over £13,000, the two UK-backed projects were intended to export British expertise to kick-start proceedings and see pilot projects established in China within three years.

Given the local opposition, legal troubles and environmental issues that have plagued British fracking, campaigners questioned the government’s involvement in operations overseas.

“It is quite unbelievable that the UK should have the hubris to suggest that it can export a regulatory system that is clearly not fit for purpose,” said Barbara Richardson, a spokesperson from Frack Free Lancashire.

Energy minister Claire Perry has emphasised the importance of shale gas as a relatively clean “bridge fuel” that will allow the transition to a low carbon economy, but critics are dubious about this goal.

“With fracking and any other form of fossil gas, there is a huge risk of lock-in – which means that it won’t get up and running fast enough, and when investors are putting money into these operations they are putting it in for 40 or 50 years,” said Ms Markova.

“In 40 years’ time we should not be using any fossil fuels whatsoever.”

To meet its commitments under the Paris climate agreement, she concluded that the UK must stop financing any more fossil fuel extraction in foreign countries.

Rose Dickinson from Friends of the Earth, who collaborated with Platform and Christian Aid to produce the report, said: “Our government’s claim to be climate leaders cannot be taken seriously while it continues to push fracking at home and abroad.

“We need to be moving away from fossil fuels, not showing other countries the best way to dig up more.”

Responding to the report, a spokesperson from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said: “The UK’s aid investment is creating a safer, healthier and more prosperous world and is in the UK’s interest.

“Gas has the potential to be a reliable energy source as countries transition towards a clean energy future, and these programmes are aimed at sharing UK expertise to help ensure that their exploration or development of resources like natural gas is done to high environmental standards.”

====== 423 ========

EXTINCTION REBELLION: THOUSANDS OF CLIMATE CHANGE PROTESTERS BLOCK LONDON BRIDGES ON DAY OF CIVIL ACTION

Environmentalists occupied five bridges in London on Saturday to highlight government “inaction” on climate change.

The Extinction Rebellion group said more than 6,000 people blocked the crossings at Blackfriars, Waterloo, Westminster, Lambeth and Southwark from around 10am.

At least 85 activists were arrested for obstruction of the highway and bail act offences during the demonstration.

The Metropolitan Police said the protests caused “significant traffic disruption” in central London before all the bridges were reopened by around 4pm.

Activists then moved on to a rally in Parliament Square, where officers moved in to surround the statue of Winston Churchill after a green flag was attached to his walking stick.

Comparing themselves to US civil rights campaigners, the protest group said radical action was necessary to “raise the alarm” about the looming climate crisis.

“We represent a huge number of concerned citizens – scientists, academics, politicians, teachers, lawyers, students, children, parents, and grandparents,” said organiser Tiana Jacout.

“We have tried marching, and lobbying, and signing petitions,” Ms Jacout added. “Nothing has brought about the change that is needed. And no damage that we incur can compare to the criminal inaction of the UK government in the face of climate and ecological breakdown.”

Writer George Monbiot joined the protest at Blackfriars bridge. “Something I have been waiting for, for a very long time is happening,” he said.

“People are risking their liberty in defence of the living world in very large numbers. It is only when we are prepared to take such action that people begin to recognise the seriousness of our existential crisis.”

Extinction Rebellion said 50 people were arrested following several actions staged in London earlier this week, including the spray-painting of walls surrounding the House of Parliament.

Others chained themselves together and glued their hands to the entrance of the Department of Energy.

Activists also unveiled a banner that read “We’re f****d” over Westminster Bridge.

The group wants the UK government to commit to net zero carbon emissions by 2025 and reverse policies inconsistent with addressing climate change.

Campaigners are also demanding a “citizen’s assembly” to be set up to allow ordinary people a voice in creating new environmental policies.

Dozens of major countries are pursuing environmental policies that would lead to temperature rises exceeding 5C by the end of the century, according to a new study by Australian and European researchers.

Last month a landmark UN report warned that greenhouse gas emissions must be cut almost in half by 2030 to avert global environmental catastrophe.

The panel of scientists found that worst effects of global warming will only be prevented if the global temperature increase stays below 1.5C.

====== 424 ========

CHINA AND RUSSIA'S CLIMATE PLANS COULD PUSH GLOBAL TEMPERATURE RISES ABOVE 5C, NEW STUDY WARNS

Dozens of countries including China and Russia are pursuing environmental policies that would lead to global warming-linked temperature rises exceeding 5C by the end of the century, a new study shows.

Researchers warned of a “collective lack of ambition” that threatened to see a potentially dangerous rise in global temperatures, with current US carbon commitments on course to push global temperature rises to 4C compared with pre-industrial levels.

The study, by researchers at the Australian-German Climate & Energy College, University of Melbourne and Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, is the first to assess the ambition of countries by their climate change pledges to the UN.

The report collates the temperature rises that would be seen globally if the emissions pledge of any one country were applied around the world.

The UK’s efforts rank averagely compared with other EU nations. Were the rest of the world to follow the British government’s lead, projected global temperatures would climb by 2.9C, the data shows.

Several other nations, including Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and Argentina are set to top 5C rises on their current trajectory, the report published in Nature Communications found.

Researchers hope the study will make it easier for members of the public and climate lobby groups to take legal action against governments who are failing to tackle the environmental threat.

It will also help policy makers to assess what more needs to be done to meet the global emissions targets under the Paris Agreement.

As part of that accord, the decision was made to “pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels”.

In total, 195 countries signed the accord and 173 have become party to the document which aims to curb global carbon emissions and contain global warming.

However, Donald Trump withdrew the US from the agreement last year, claiming it put American workers – particularly in the coal industry – at an “economic disadvantage".

Although the agreement aimed to keep global temperatures “well below” 2C above pre-industrial times, the more ambitious target of 1.5C is seen as the best way to avoid the harmful impacts of climate change.

These include devastating natural disasters such as droughts and flooding, which are increasingly being directly linked with rising temperatures.

The data shows that much of sub-Saharan is on track to fall well below the 1.5C target, with most at or below 1.2C.

But much of Asia, the Middle East and North and South America are due to far exceed the 1.5C target that experts agree is the best way to avoid the harmful impacts of climate change.

“The greenest countries on this assessment are the least developed,” Yann Robiou du Pont, co-author of the study, told The Independent.

“Given that they pollute so much less, have polluted so much less and have low per capita GDP, they could increase their emissions to some extent, and that would be fair.”

But he added: “Many industrialised countries perform poorly. After all, we know that industrialisation brought climate change.

“That does not mean that industrialised countries cannot act on it.

“Also, some are performing significantly better than others. The EU does better than the US, Canada or Australia.

“But again, this only reviews the commitments, and does not say whether countries will actually meet them, or maybe even over perform.”

Mr Robiou du Pont said world emissions “are not on track at all to limit warming to 1.5C” but added that there were still reasons to be optimistic, including an increase in legal proceedings against governments accused of inaction.

Increased involvement by local and regional governments, such as states and cities, to aid the fight also give cause for hope, he said.

The full map and data can be accessed here.

====== 425 ========

BRAZIL’S FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS CLIMATE CHANGE IS A 'MARXIST PLOT'

Brazil’s new foreign minister believes climate change is a Marxist tactic to instil fear, stifle the economic growth of western countries, and benefit China.

The appointment of Ernesto Araújo, who has been named by president-elect Jair Bolsonaro as the country’s top diplomat, will be a major cause for concern for those already alarmed at the extent of global climate collapse.

Brazil’s outgoing government has already been heavily criticised for “inviting deforestation”, in the Amazon – the world’s largest and most biodiverse rainforest, which is vital for soaking up carbon emissions.

But under Mr Araújo, it appears efforts to balance environmental protection and economic development may tilt further towards business interests.

Writing on his blog during Mr Bolsonaro’s election campaign last month, in a post titled “Hijack and pervert”, Mr Araújo described climate science as a “dogma” which ignored “evidence” showing the opposite of rising temperatures and greater concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere.

“The left has sequestered the environmental cause and perverted it to the point of paroxysm over the last 20 years with the ideology of climate change, climate change,” he wrote.

“The climate [scientists] gathered some data suggesting a correlation between rising temperatures with increasing concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere, ignored data suggesting the opposite, and created a “scientific” dogma that no one else can contest on pain of being excommunicated from good society.”

He added: “This dogma has served to justify an increase in the regulatory power of states over the economy and power of international institutions over national states and their populations, as well as to stifle economic growth in democratic capitalist countries and foster China's growth.”

Mr Araújo’s views closely echo those of Donald Trump, who has previously called climate change a “hoax” and a “con-job” which was “created by the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non-competitive”.

The 51-year-old, whose blog “Metapolitics” has the tagline “against globalism”, frequently rails against Marxism in his posts, attacks abortion, feminism, defends Catholicism and claims socialists are trying to criminalise history, Disney films, justice, WhatsApp, heterosexual sex, sport, jokes and humour.

He describes Brazil’s Worker’s Party, known as the PT, and against whom Mr Bolsonaro was campaigning, as a “Totalitarian Project or Tyranny Program”.

In another post he wrote: “Marxist ‘utopia’ aims to eliminate all contradictions of human life, creating communist society and promoting the end of history. Yes, the end of history is a Marxist goal,” the blog says in relation to Francis Fukuyama’s book “The End of History”, which states that liberal democracy will emerge as the triumphant form of governance.

On Twitter announcing his new minister, Mr Bolsonaro called Mr Araújo a “brilliant intellectual”.

The appointment will mark a stark change in Brazil’s efforts to combat climate change. The country was the host of the 1992 UN Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro which laid the foundations of international efforts to recognise and combat man-made climate change.

Brazilian diplomats were also instrumental in forging the Paris Agreement in 2015.

The country is in line to host next year’s UN climate talks. Mr Bolsonaro has given no indication whether his administration will go ahead with the summit.

====== 426 ========

SUPERMARKETS FLOODING BRITAIN WITH 59 BILLION PIECES OF PLASTIC PACKAGING A YEAR, MAJOR STUDY REVEALS

Britain's top 10 supermarkets are flooding the planet with 810,000 tonnes of single-use plastic every year, according to a major new report.

This is in addition to over 1.1 billion single-use bags, 958 million “bags for life” and 1.2 billion plastic bags for fruit and vegetables, which supermarkets produce annually.

Seven of those supermarkets are putting into circulation around 59 billion pieces of plastic packaging a year – roughly 2,000 pieces for every household in the country – according to the Checking Out on Plastics report by the Environmental Investigation Agency and Greenpeace UK.

Half of supermarkets surveyed have no specific targets to reduce plastic packaging while most of those which do are removing it at such a slow pace (just 5 per cent per year) it would take them 20 years to completely rid their shelves of throwaway plastic, the study states.

It adds that that they have only committed to eliminate non-recyclable plastics by 2025, something the authors describe as an “unacceptable delay”.

Shops have not put pressure on big brands and producers to reduce levels of plastic, it says.

“Plastic pollution is now a full-blown environmental crisis and our supermarkets are right at the heart of it,” said Greenpeace UK Oceans Campaigner Elena Polisano. “Much of the throwaway plastic packaging filling up our homes comes from supermarket shelves, but high-street giants are still not taking full responsibility for it.

“So far most retail bosses have responded to growing concern from customers with a pick-and-mix of different plastic announcements, but have failed to come up with the coherent plastic reduction plans required to solve this problem.”

She added: “The success of the plastic bag charge shows big retailers can crack down on plastic waste if they really mean to. Every little may well help, but if we are to protect our natural world and ourselves from pervasive plastic pollution, supermarkets need to check out on throwaway plastic fast.”

Plastic production has soared twentyfold in the past half-century and, at the current rate, is expected to quadruple by 2050, the report says.

In the 60 years since large-scale production of plastics began, 79 per cent of plastic waste globally has been disposed of in landfills or the natural environment, 12 per cent has been incinerated and 9 per cent recycled.

Even in the UK, recycling rates of consumer plastic packaging only reach 30-34 per cent, according to the Waste and Resources Action Programme (Wrap).

The grocery retail sector is the largest user of plastic packaging, accounting for over half of the 1.5 million tonnes of consumer plastic packaging used in retail every year.

Responding to Greenpeace’s findings, Peter Andrews, head of sustainability at the British Retail Consortium said: “Retailers recognise how important it is to tackle plastic pollution, removing it where possible and ensuring all packaging is recyclable. Billions of tonnes of waste has been prevented so far and the industry is working towards the goal of 100 per cent of plastic packaging being reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025 at the latest and eliminating all unnecessary single use packaging.

“We know customers need to trust that if packaging is put in a recycling bin, it will be recycled by local authorities. But we are concerned that the pace of change is being hampered by a lack of recycling infrastructure.”

====== 427 ========

AIR POLLUTION: LOW EMISSION ZONES NOT PREVENTING STUNTED LUNG GROWTH IN LONDON CHILDREN

Children in London are growing up with smaller lungs and asthma due to toxic air pollution, despite efforts to cut fumes from the city’s traffic.

A study of over 2,000 young people living in the capital found that while low emission zones designed to keep high-polluting cars away have slightly improved air quality, deeper cuts are needed to improve children’s health.

Experts said the findings showed more ambitious measures are needed to tackle Britain’s air pollution crisis. They added that the ultra-low emission zone launching next year is a step in the right direction.

Outdoor air pollution from cars and other sources kills four million people every year, and children are particularly susceptible to its effects.

"We are raising a generation of children reaching adulthood with stunted lung capacity,” said Professor Chris Griffiths from Queen Mary University of London, one of the study’s authors.

He also blamed the car industry and a government “which continues to fail to act decisively to ensure towns and cities cut traffic”.

Low emission zones restrict or penalise vehicles driving into parts of the city in an effort to discourage their use, and London introduced the world’s largest one a decade ago.

The research, published in The Lancet Public Health journal, is one of the first efforts to understand whether this strategy has had any impact on Londoners’ health.

Scientists enrolled eight and nine year-olds from Tower Hamlets, Hackney, Greenwich and the City of London, all of which are failing to meet current European Union nitrogen dioxide pollution limits.

They monitored the children’s health over the five years, covering the period when the low emission zone was introduced, and found that those exposed to air pollution lost about 5 per cent of their lung capacity.

Even though nitrogen dioxide levels fell thanks to the zones, there was no accompanying fall in lung conditions among the children.

London parent Alice De Ville said she was "extremely worried” about what the city’s air was doing to her sons’ lungs.

“The government cannot be allowed to dismiss the evidence, air pollution is damaging our children's health,” she said.

The researchers behind the study said their results showed the importance of evidence-based decision making, and provided further support for the ultra-low emission zone that will see even tighter restrictions placed on vehicles entering the city.

"This new study reveals the terrible legacy of successive governments' failure to act over illegal levels of air pollution,” said Andrea Lee, senior campaigner for ClientEarth, the environmental lawyers who have successfully sued the government three times over the UK’s illegal air pollution.

“The ultra-low emission zone in London will be welcome when it comes in next spring but action is also needed at a national level.”

Shirley Rodrigues, deputy London mayor for environment and energy, said the report was “further evidence of how pollution blights young Londoners’ lives”.

She said besides low emissions zones, there was a need for the government to implement a diesel scrappage scheme to take the most polluting vehicles off the road.

London is not the only part of the UK with dangerous air pollution, with one 2017 report by the World Health Organisation concluding over 40 British cities had air too dangerous to breathe.

Responding to the report, a spokesperson from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: “While air quality in the UK has improved significantly since 2010, we understand the risk it continues to pose to human health, and realise more needs to be done. For that reason, we have introduced a £3.5bn plan to reduce harmful emissions and an ambitious Clean Air Strategy which has been welcomed by the World Health Organisation.

“We will soon be going even further with new legislation to give local government new powers to take action in areas with a pollution problem.”

====== 428 ========

HOW A RUSSIAN FISHING VILLAGE IS SLOWLY VANISHING UNDER SAND

Shoyna, a Russian fishing village on the frigid shores of the White Sea, is slowly vanishing under sand that engulfs entire houses, their roofs just barely visible above the dunes.

For young children, it’s a magical place: their whole world a sandbox with natural slides everywhere. For everyone else, life in this barren landscape – likely a manmade environmental disaster – can be a daily grind.

Anna Golubtsova lives on the second floor of her home. The ground floor has turned into an unwelcome beach.

“We’ll have to hire a bulldozer to push the sand back, and again next year,” Golubtsova says. “We have to do it lest the snow piling up on top of the sand buries us to our roof.”

A nearby house was so overtaken by the dunes its residents had to go in and out through the attic.

Local residents say more than 20 houses have been completely buried under the sand. Boardwalks take the place of sidewalks on the village streets.

In the years after the Second World War, Shoyna was a thriving fishing port, with old Soviet newsreels telling stories of the fishermen here heroically exceeding their production targets.

But overfishing not only depleted local stocks; it probably ruined the area’s ecosystem. Trawlers scraped the seafloor clean of silt and seaweed. And with nothing to hold the sand in place anymore, waves started washing it ashore, each of the trillions of grains a reminder of the reckless depredation of the seas.

This disruption of the seabed, perhaps combined with a natural change in the bed of the river that flows through Shoyna and into the White Sea, is the best suspect to blame for the sand invasion, says Sergey Uvarov, the marine biodiversity project coordinator for the World Wildlife Fund in Russia. But no formal environmental studies of the remote region have been conducted.

In the summertime, small aeroplanes, and the occasional helicopter, are the only way to reach Shoyna.

Evdokiya Sakharova, 81, serves as an informal greeter at the sandy landing strip. In her youth, the now desert-like area was filled with grassy meadows where cows would be taken to pasture, and villagers had their own little farms next to their homes.

“I remember the village when it was full of life, not sand,” she says.

During its heyday as a fishing port, Shoyna’s quay could barely fit the more than 70 fishing vessels coming in and out every day. At its height, the village’s population was over 800; today it’s home to 285 people.

The emptying out didn’t happen all at once. First the fish processing plant closed, then the brickworks. The farms held on for a while. “We kept planting vegetables, fertilising the soil and sweeping away the sand advancing from the shore,” Sakharova says. “Until it became pointless.”

The people in the village, where trails left by ATVs, humans and dogs crisscross the sand between the houses, don’t expect much in terms of amenities. The village has no sewage system, and water has to be carried from wells. Houses are heated with firewood or coal.

Food supplies in Shoyna’s only store cost almost twice as much as in the nearest town, and many residents turn for sustenance to the natural areas outside the village where the sand has not yet reached.

Arctic cloudberry grows in the tundra. Harvesting it is backbreaking labour, but it’s both delicious and lucrative. Locals sell it to middlemen, and it ultimately fetches almost as much as red caviar in city stores. In the fall, wild geese can be hunted and enough meat stored to last the winter. Sometimes nomadic reindeer herders stop by, exchanging meat for other goods.

Small-scale fishing still happens throughout the year, in the summer for food and in the winter for trade. It’s quite a way to the nearest market, however. Fish has to be hauled along a frozen river on snowmobiles for eight to 10 hours to the nearest town, Mezen.

Shoyna runs on its own schedule. If you need bread, you have to place an order at a bakery open four days a week. At the village’s bathhouse, Tuesdays and Wednesdays are reserved for women, Thursdays and Fridays for men.

“There’s little entertainment out here,” says Karina Kotkina, an intern at the local meteorological station. “We’re lucky to have internet connection.”

Every Saturday there’s a dance night at the local community centre frequented by the few young people still living in the village, as well as soldiers from the nearby military base.

“I still can’t forgive my commander for letting me go on a leave to the village 23 years ago,” jokes a former soldier, Viktor Schepakov, who now works at the village’s diesel power station. “This is when I met my future wife and decided to stay in Shoyna.”

Debates about staying in Shoyna or moving along have been going on for decades.

Resettlement can be subsidised under a federal assistance programme for residents of far northern regions. Many young people do leave to study, work and travel. But some of those who have bolted come back after a while: it can be hard to adapt to urban life after years spent in the village.

“Shoyna drags you in,” says Pavel Kotkin, 21. “I spent four years studying in the city and came back. I love Shoyna and want to spend my life here.”

But what about the sand?

“I can’t do without it,” he says. “My feet hurt after walking on asphalt.”

For those who stay, jobs are scarce. Most of those available are in the public sector, like teaching or serving on the village council. The weather is also an employment driver.

Anna Kravets is the director of the local meteorological station that monitors what can be the extreme conditions here. She came to Shoyna from Rostov-on-Don, in Russia’s mild south. “I miss fresh vegetables,” she says. “The stuff from the local store is too green and tasteless.”

While she’s now accustomed to the sand, it took time. “It’s hard to walk on it, your feet and legs get tired too quickly,” Kravets says. “I had to say goodbye to my high heels.”

When the fishery was closed, some large vessels were just abandoned on the shore, and the rusting hulks look like mythical beasts.

“When we were kids, we used to play hide-and-seek there, build our little houses there,” Kotkin reminisces. “These ships were our whole world.”

People bring their old machinery to join these ships on the shore. But it’s a junkyard with a broader purpose: the rusting clutter’s last mission is to serve as an improvised breakwater, helping shield houses on Shoyna’s shore from crashing waves.

There are some signs that Shoyna’s ecosystem may be recuperating. Grass started reappearing in Shoyna in the past five years. Fishermen, too, tell tales of seaweed tangling in their nets where there was none before.

But for now, the sand continues to come.

The wind carries the sand from the shore to a lighthouse on the beach, still the village’s most visible landmark. From there, the wind picks up the sand from the dunes lining the lighthouse’s foundation and carries it farther towards the village. Grains of sand rattle against the windows and whip the faces of passersby.

Some of this sand will eventually end up on the porch of Sakharova, the airport greeter. She grabs a shovel every morning and gets to digging her house out little by little.

“My kids and grandchildren are asking me to move to the city, but I don’t want to,” she says. “Shoyna is my home. It’s nice and calm out here.”

© New York Times

====== 429 ========

FIN WHALES AND MOUNTAIN GORILLAS BACK FROM THE BRINK OF EXTINCTION THANKS TO CONSERVATION EFFORTS

There is hope for the survival of fin whales and mountain gorillas after conservationists announced both species have been pulled back from the brink of extinction.

After decades of persecution by whaling vessels and poachers, modern efforts to protect these mammals appear to be working as their numbers have started to recover.

The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) maintains a “red list” to monitor the status of the world’s wildlife, and in its latest update both whales and gorillas have shifted one step further away from becoming new entries on the long list of species wiped out by humanity.

After a recent WWF report revealed 60 per cent of monitored animal populations had been obliterated in the space of decades, the announcement shows concerted international action can yield results.

Previously listed as endangered, fin whale numbers have roughly doubled since the 1970s when an international ban on commercial whaling was introduced. The population now stands at 100,000 mature individuals.

There has also been a marked improvement in western populations of grey whales, which are no longer considered critically endangered.

Dr Randall Reeves, chair of the IUCN cetacean specialist group, said it was “a relief” to finally see these populations on the rise.

“These whales are recovering largely thanks to bans on commercial hunting, international agreements and various protection measures. Conservation efforts must continue until the populations are no longer threatened,” he said.

In central Africa, anti-poaching patrols and the concerted removal of snares has helped boost mountain gorilla numbers from 680 individuals a decade ago to over 1,000 now, the highest figure ever recorded.

The IUCN has therefore reclassified the apes from critically endangered to endangered, crediting this small but significant victory to collaborative efforts that have spanned the nations where they reside.

However, they noted that despite the success of this subspecies, the eastern gorilla species to which it belongs remains critically endangered, and the future survival of these apes is still on a knife edge.

“Coordinated efforts through a regional action plan and fully implementing IUCN best practice guidelines for great ape tourism and disease prevention, which recommend limiting numbers of tourists and preventing any close contact with humans, are critical to ensuring a future for the mountain gorilla,” said Dr Liz Williamson of the IUCN primate specialist group.

However, the good news from the IUCN was tempered by reports that overfishing and illegal logging are sending species in parts of the developing world spiralling into decline.

Lack of sustainable fisheries and a boom in demand mean that 13 per cent of the world’s grouper fish are now threatened with extinction, and 9 per cent of the fish in Lake Malawi, according to the IUCN’s latest assessment.

Meanwhile illegal logging has fuelled a 15-fold increase in trade in the Vene timber tree, which the IUCN says is now endangered.

With some nations still holding out on a total whaling ban, and companies accused of fuelling the destruction of rainforests home to orangutans, tigers and rhinos, conservationists are clear that despite some successes urgent international action is needed to end the mass extinction of wildlife.

WWF has called for a “global deal” in the mould of the Paris climate agreement to save nature, and an ongoing UN biodiversity summit in Egypt presents an opportunity for decisive action.

“The recovery of species like mountain gorilla, fin whale and Rothschild’s giraffe demonstrates once again that with sustained, long-term conservation action, we can not only prevent extinctions, but also achieve considerable population recoveries,” said Dominic Jermey, director general of the Zoological Society of London.

“As the world’s governments convene in Egypt to continue discussions around forging a new and ambitious strategic plan for biodiversity, we hope that these examples will embolden countries to make strong commitments that will put the world’s wildlife on a path to recovery.”

====== 430 ========

WHY IS PALM OIL BAD FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, AND WHAT CAN PEOPLE DO TO HELP?

Palm oil has emerged as a major source of controversy after a Christmas advert by supermarket chain Iceland was deemed too political by regulators.

The advert, originally created by Greenpeace, features an orangutan mourning the loss of a forest home that has been destroyed to make way for palm oil plantations.

Many pointed out that far from being overly political, the film merely presented the devastating reality of the palm oil industry and the impact it is having on nature.

The debate will be nothing new to anyone who follows global environmental causes, or the plight of Indonesia’s orangutans.

Despite well-established links to corruption, persecution of indigenous people and the creeping extinctions of iconic species, it remains a key ingredient in many everyday products.

1 What is palm oil?

A variety of vegetable oil extracted from the fruit and seeds of the oil palm, although it is native to parts of west Africa, the trees are mainly grown on enormous plantations in Indonesia and Malaysia, which produce 86 per cent of the world’s supply.

Around 66 million tonnes of palm oil are thought to be produced every year and by some estimates the substance is found in half of all packaged goods in UK supermarkets.

2 Why do we need so much palm oil?

Used in an enormous variety of products, including shampoo, candles, lipstick, bread and chocolate, it has a range of useful properties that make it a useful cleaning agent, as well as aiding in the cooking process and improving the texture of foods.

It is also a critical component in fuels, with almost half the palm oil imported into the European Union used to make biodiesel. However, this demand is likely to subside under current plans to phase out palm oil for fuel by 2030.

Crucially, palm oil is cheap. Oil palms are very productive crops that produce a large amount of oil for relatively little cost.

Because of the enormous global demand, palm oil has become a major component in south east Asian economies, employing millions of people.

3 How does it harm the environment?

Oil palms grow well in low-lying, tropical regions, which tend to house rainforests and peatlands. They home to an array of endangered species including orangutans, rhinos and tigers.

The creation of massive plantations has meant these rich ecosystems have been replaced with monocultures – “green deserts” in which native animals and plants cannot thrive. Burning of forests to make way for palm pollutes the environment, and deforestation is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions.

In total, palm oil plantations are now thought to cover more than 27 million hectares.

While palm oil development has brought great economic opportunities to some local people, it has also been linked with the persecution of indigenous groups as developers move in and seize land.

4 Why are orangutans particularly threatened?

Orangutans live high in the forest canopy and their habitat is a prime target for expanding palm oil operations.

Numbers of these great apes in Borneo have halved between 1999 and 2015, and this has been directly linked to palm oil. Not only has forest destruction robbed orangutans of up to 90 per cent of their homes, they are sometimes actively killed by those involved in the industry.

Greenpeace has recently identified food giant Mondelez, the maker of Cadbury chocolate, as responsible for destroying 70,000 hectares of habitat for these great apes since 2016.

5 What can people do to help?

Because palm oil is so pervasive, it can be difficult to avoid. Brands understand that people might be trying to avoid palm oil and often give it different names in their ingredient lists such as “vegetable oil” or “vegetable fat”.

However, it is possible to purchase products made with palm oil deemed sustainable. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil certifies some palm oil as sustainable if its production has been deemed socially and environmentally responsible, and consumers can look out for its label on products.

Non government organisations have persuaded many of the biggest companies to sign global commitments to drop “dirty” palm oil, but there is a lot of scepticism about now effective these measures have been. Firms have been accused of only sticking to the most basic requirements for sustainability, meaning forests are still at risk.

So consumers can police their own purchases, but they can also help by petitioning companies and piling on the pressure to switch over to palm oil production that does not compromise some of the most previous ecosystems on Earth.

====== 431 ========

SKYSCRAPERS MAKE HURRICANES MUCH WORSE, STUDY FINDS

In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey – a category 4 tropical cyclone – ripped into the US city of Houston causing catastrophic flooding, killing 68 people and causing $125bn in damage, tying with 2005’s Hurricane Katrina as the costliest cyclone on record.

In the four days the hurricane battered southern Texas, many areas received between 40 – 60 inches (100 – 150cm) of rain, which inundated thousands of homes in and around Houston and displaced over 300,000 people.

While recent studies are showing how a warming climate has made tropical cyclones significantly more intense, both in terms of rainfall and wind speed (see below), new complimentary research indicates Houston’s urban landscape directly contributed to the huge impacts of the storm.

A research team from Princeton University found the Houston area’s risk of extreme flooding during the hurricane was 21 times greater due to urbanisation.

Writing this week in the journal Nature, they say computer models indicate the same hurricane would have resulted in “significantly less rainfall”, in the same geographic area, “but with open fields and crops in place of streets and skyscrapers”.

The authors say “surface roughness” of the environment due to the presence of manmade structures creates a “drag effect” on hurricanes.

They write: “This effect occurs when high winds strike tall buildings, creating friction. In the case of Hurricane Harvey, winds shifted warm surface air farther up into the atmosphere, thereby creating an optimal situation for cloud formation and precipitation.”

“When Hurricane Harvey blew into Houston, it literally got snagged on the city’s tall skyscrapers and towers,” said co-athour Gabriele Villarini, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Iowa.

“The friction caused by high winds buffeting tall buildings created a drag effect that influenced air and heat movement and resulted in optimal conditions for precipitation.”

As well as using computer models, the team looked at year-on-year changes in flood peaks and compared them to rainfall levels and population growth – a proxy for urbanisation.

They compared these results to flood peaks from the 1950s, a period predating major urban development in Houston.

They found as Houston’s urban centre grew up and out, so too did the risk of severe flooding.

They recorded a greater risk of higher flood peaks and more serious and dangerous flooding overall. As the city’s miles of impervious pavements and streets increased, heavy rainfall could not be absorbed into the ground.

“Urbanisation is generally associated with a significant reduction in storm-water infiltration,” Professor Villarini said.

“Houston has experienced one of the most impressive urban-development booms in US history, and with growth comes an increase in impervious surfaces. This increase in urbanisation, combined with the region’s flat clay terrain, represents a very problematic mix, even with flood-mitigation measures in place.”

While the authors say the findings cannot be directly extrapolated to every coastal urban area in the US, they say the study does provide insight into the “unexpected costs of development”.

“Hurricane Havey’s impacts on Houston highlight hazards to coastal cities along the Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard of the United States,” said co-author James Smith, a Princeton professor of civil and environmental engineering.

“An unfortunate repeat performance from Hurricane Florence this year underscores the problems of extreme tropical cyclone rainfall in urban settings.”

Impacts of climate change

The study comes as new supercomputer simulations by climate scientists at the US Department of Energy’s Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have shown climate change intensified the amount of rainfall in recent hurricanes such as Katrina, Irma, and Maria by between 5 to 10 per cent.

The research, also published this week in Nature, says if those hurricanes were to occur in a future world warmer than present, there would be even more rainfall and stronger winds.

Using three future climate scenarios based on increasing levels of greenhouse gases, the Berkley team’s simulations indicated rainfall could increase by 15 to 35 per cent. Wind speeds increased by as much as 25 knots, although most hurricanes saw increases of 10 to 15 knots.

“We’re already starting to see anthropogenic factors influencing tropical cyclone rainfall,” said lead author Christina Patricola, a scientist in Berkeley Lab’s earth and environmental sciences department.

“And our simulations strongly indicate that as time goes on we can expect to see even greater increases in rainfall.”

====== 432 ========

WHALE AND GORILLA RECOVERIES SHOW WHAT THE WORLD NEEDS IS A PARIS AGREEMENT FOR NATURE

Reading about the environment can be a depressing affair.

Between the existential threat posed to humanity by climate change, air pollution poisoning children from London to Lagos, and the mass extinction of global wildlife, there is plenty to be miserable about. It’s also very easy for the kind of complicated, incremental work that makes a difference to get lost in the tide of dire warnings.

But the latest bulletin from the International Union for Conservation of Nature offers a glimmer of hope. The global body tasked with assessing the status of the planet’s wildlife has announced that populations of fin whales and mountain gorillas are, if not booming, at least returning to their former glory.

These magnificent mammals have faced decades of persecution by humans, and IUCN director general Inger Andersen said their recovery was proof that “ambitious, collaborative efforts of governments, business and civil society could turn back the tide of species loss”. That may sound like a grand pronouncement based on a few hundred gorillas, but they aren’t empty words.

Animals and plants don’t care about national borders, and some of the biggest challenges they face – pollution, climate change and the international demand for palm oil, to name a few – transcend individual nations. The only reason fin whales have recovered at all is because the world decided commercial whaling had to end. Granted, this decision has not been universally respected, but it has allowed these animals enough breathing room to gradually repopulate the oceans.

The same is true of mountain gorillas. These animals live in the cloud forests of central Africa, a region with a well known history of instability and conflict that has contributed to the apes’ downward spiral. Nevertheless, collaborative efforts across borders in recent years to tackle poaching and work with local communities have given the gorillas a much needed boost.

It was not all good news from the IUCN, with warnings that rampant overfishing and demand for wood from China were wiping out various African fish and trees. When taken together, though, the message is clear. Successful conservation is possible, but only if nations are willing to put aside their own interests for the sake of the global good that is nature.

When WWF released its report last month detailing the excruciating losses that wildlife has suffered at the hands of humanity, it said the time had come for a “global deal” to save nature. Such a deal, in the mould of the Paris agreement to address climate change, is increasingly being seen by scientists and conservationists as the only way to put the brakes on Earth’s sixth mass extinction.

The UN launched its Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992 with the intention of protecting the world’s natural resources, but its current ambitions amount to – in the words of one recent analysis – “at best a managed decline”. International leaders are currently meeting in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, to discuss tactics for preserving biodiversity in the coming decades. They need to take inspiration from the successes of the past, however modest, because only radical and worldwide action is going to ensure those victories aren’t fleeting.

====== 433 ========

WHY IT'S TIME CONSERVATION WAS SUBJECT TO HIGH SCIENTIFIC STANDARDS

All over the world, countless conservation projects are taking place, attempting to achieve aims from reducing habitat loss, to restoring populations of threatened species. However there is growing awareness that conservationists have not always done a good enough job at evaluating whether the things they do really work. But our new study shows that simply experimenting could change this.

Efforts that fail to make things better for species and ecosystems waste the limited resources available for conservation, and result in missed opportunities to stem the loss of biodiversity. Given that monitored populations of wildlife species have declined by 60 per cent in the past 50 years, and large-scale loss of forest continues, this is bad news. So, research to show whether conservation efforts work really matters. And those doing conservation need easy access to the results of this vital evidence.

In many fields, when researchers want to know whether something works they conduct an experiment. For example, patients are often randomly assigned to receive a new drug (or not) and the results are compared to determine if the new treatment has the potential to help people. Despite calls for more use of experiments in conservation, they remain extremely rare.

Experiments changing practice

One common approach to conservation is encouraging owners to manage their land in a way which provides benefits for the environment. This has been done in the UK for decades. For example, farmers are paid to maintain hedgerows and leave stubble on fields to help farmland birds. These kinds of payments for ecosystem services schemes are increasingly used in the tropics as well.

In 2017, an experiment in Uganda revealed that paying farmers not to chop down trees was a cost effective way to slow deforestation. Now we have published the results of only the second experiment at such a scale. Our study evaluates whether providing incentives to farmers to protect forest and keep cattle out of streams improves water quality.

The research focuses on the efforts of the Bolivian NGO Natura, which has been working with communities in the Andes to help protect the area’s incredible forests. These are home to spectacled bears and other wonderful wildlife, and are seen locally as important for supplying clean water. In Natura’s Watershared programme, upstream landowners were offered incentives to shift their livelihood activities away from clearing forest or letting cattle graze untended in the forest. Natura wanted to know if their innovative approach to conservation was working, so they took the unusual step of setting up an experiment to find out.

Despite calls for more use of experiments in conservation, they remain extremely rare

In 2010, 129 communities were randomly placed in a control group, or given the chance to enrol their land in Watershared agreements. Households in the latter “treatment communities” could then choose to enrol as much of their land as they wished in the programme. Analysing the results of this experiment, we found that while keeping cattle out of rivers is (perhaps unsurprisingly) good for water quality at the location where it happens, the treatment communities did not have cleaner water in their taps. Further investigation revealed that this was at least in part because of the low level of uptake of the programme, and that the land most likely to be important for improving water quality was often not enrolled.

Natura is already implementing the results of this research to improve the design of Watershared. They are working with communities to ensure that protection is targeted to areas most likely to benefit water quality. And our experience with running such a large-scale experiment holds useful lessons for others interested in increasing knowledge about what works in conservation.

Doesn’t everyone like an experiment?

Away from conservation, there has been an explosion in the use of randomised experiments to evaluate the impact of other large-scale interventions – in development and education, for example. However, there has been backlash from opponents who have pointed out, among other things, that these kinds of investigations will not always provide valid answers to the most important questions because these experiments can only normally answer the question “does it work?”, rather than “why does it work?”, and so can’t really answer the other key question, “will it work in other situations?”. This debate has got quite heated, and even acrimonious, at times.

Running an experiment to evaluate the impact of a large-scale conservation intervention is certainly very challenging. It is often not possible to randomise which areas receive a new conservation project (can you imagine a government randomly allocating where it puts national parks?). There are also issues with achieving adequate replication, and there can be ethical concerns which prevent experimentation.

However, given the importance of knowing what works in conservation, more high quality evaluations (which won’t always be experiments) are certainly needed. Only by learning from current practice can the future effectiveness of conservation be improved.

Julia PG Jones is a professor of conservation science at Bangor University. This article originally appeared on The Conversation

====== 434 ========

CHINA MAKES U-TURN ON LEGALISING THE SALE OF RHINO AND TIGER PARTS

Plans to ease a ban on the trading in tiger and rhinoceros parts have been postponed by the Chinese government.

While the trade of the endangered animals was banned by the country in 1993, in October the government announced it would allow the parts to be used for medical, scientific and cultural purposes.

The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) said the decision would have “devastating consequences globally” and along with other animal rights groups it raised fears that poaching and smuggling of the endangered animals could increase.

But executive deputy secretary-general of the state council Ding Xuedong said the change had “been postponed after study”, state run news agency Xinhua reported.

“Relevant departments of the Chinese government will soon continue to organise special crackdown campaigns with focus on addressing the illegal trade of rhinos, tigers and their by products,” he said.

“Illegal acts will be dealt with severely," he added.

Mr Ding did not give a reason for the postponement or say how long it was scheduled to last.

“The Chinese government has long been dedicated to the cause of wildlife protection and has made achievements recognised by the world,” he said.

Tiger bone and rhino horn are highly valued in Chinese medicines, despite no proof of their effectiveness.

The WWF said the latest development “signalled a positive response to international reaction”.

“Allowing trade from even captive animals could have had devastating impacts on wild rhino and tiger populations,” it said in a statement. “It is important to send a strong message that the value of wild populations of tigers and rhinos ... is much greater than the value of their parts.”

Fewer than 4,000 tigers are estimated to live in the wild, according to the WWF, while studies put the population of wild rhinos at less than 30,000.

Associated Press contributed to this report

====== 435 ========

SPAIN SETS OUT PLAN FOR 100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY BY 2050

Spain has set out plans to switch entirely to renewable electricity by 2050, with goals that go further than current European Union plans.

Under the new strategy, greenhouse gas emissions from Spain would be cut by 90 per cent compared to 1990 levels by the middle of the century.

The nation intends to invest massively in wind and solar power over the next decade, while banning new licences for fossil fuel drilling and fracking wells.

It is also planning to source 70 per cent of electricity from renewables by 2030, and 100 per cent by 2050. In 2017 Spain got roughly a third of its power from renewable sources such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves, and geothermal heat.

Experts have welcomed the move as evidence Spain is “deadly serious” about fighting climate change, and an example to other nations in setting ambitious targets.

The country's socialist government set out this strategy ahead of other European nations in a draft law.

“It is exciting to see Spain setting the pace in its commitment to a 100 per cent renewable powered future,” said James Watson, CEO of SolarPower Europe. “Spain’s energy ambition is a wake-up call to all the other states across the world, as it demonstrates what we know – it is possible to power large economies by renewables in the very near future.”

The country intend to go beyond the current EU target of 32 per cent and install 35 per cent overall renewable energy by 2030, with at least 70 per cent renewable electricity.

It is also aiming to improve energy efficiency by 35 per cent, once again going beyond the EU target of 32.5 per cent.

In their announcement, the Spanish authorities have emphasised a “just transition”, shutting down coal mines but ensuring that there are sufficient retirement packages and retraining to ensure no one is left behind in the transition.

“The draft Spanish climate law is an excellent example of the implementation of the Paris agreement: it sets a long-term goal, provides incentives on scaling up zero emission technologies and cares about a good transition for the workforce,” said Christiana Figueres, former executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. “As an early mover Spain will gain economically and create new jobs in the renewables sector.”

Laurence Tubiana, CEO of the European Climate Foundation, described the Spanish government’s action as “groundbreaking”.

She said: “By planning on going carbon neutral Spain shows that the battle against climate change is deadly serious, that they are ready to step up, and plan to reap the rewards of decarbonisation.”

She added that Spain was showing the European Commission the way before it presented its long-term climate strategy at the end of November.

The UK is currently aiming to reduce emissions by 80 per cent by 2050, but experts have warned that stricter targets will be required to avoid the worst effects of global warming.

The government has asked its advisers to look into the measures required to implement stricter targets, but it has also faced criticism for its failure to support renewable sources like onshore wind, and its continued support for fracking.

In December nations will meet in Poland to discuss the best ways to meet the goals of the Paris climate agreement and set out an urgent strategy for the coming years.

====== 436 ========

HEATWAVES DRIVEN BY CLIMATE CHANGE MAKING INSECTS INFERTILE, NEW STUDY SUGGESTS

Heatwaves appear to be sterilising male insects, a discovery that has serious implications in a world of rising temperatures and mass extinctions.

A new study found heatwave conditions slashed sperm production in beetles by three quarters and halved the amount of offspring they could produce.

With massive insect declines already recorded by scientists from Germany to Puerto Rico, the findings present another massive source of concern for scientists.

Heatwaves such as the ones that struck much of the northern hemisphere this summer are thought to be on the rise, and getting more intense as the average worldwide temperature creeps up.

The scientists suggested their findings could even have repercussions for humans, as past work has hinted that heat shock has the power to induce infertility to mammals as well.

“We know that biodiversity is suffering under climate change, but the specific causes and sensitivities are hard to pin down,” said Professor Matt Gage from the University of East Anglia, who led the research.

“We've shown in this work that sperm function is an especially sensitive trait when the environment heats up, and in a model system representing a huge amount of global biodiversity.”

Beetles such as the red flour beetle used in the research comprise a staggering quarter of all biodiversity on Earth, with around 400,000 species described to date.

In the team’s study, which was published in the journal Nature Communications, beetles were exposed to simulated heatwaves 5-7C above optimum conditions for five days.

They then followed this work up with experiments to assess the damage caused to reproductive success and sperm function, as well as long-term effects on offspring.

After the initial exposure cut the chances of reproducing, a second heatwave rendered them virtually sterile – producing just 1 per cent of the offspring produced under normal conditions.

“Insects in nature are likely to experience multiple heatwave events, which could become a problem for population productivity if male reproduction cannot adapt or recover,” said Kirs Sales, a PhD student who led the research.

To make matters worse the effects of heat stress seem to cross generations. The offspring of heatwave-shocked fathers lived shorter lives, and the sons produced fewer offspring of their own.

Recent studies have shown insect declines of up to 75 per cent in some areas, an effect that has been linked to everything from overuse of pesticides to habitat destruction.

With insects playing a vital role supporting global biodiversity and pollinating plants, scientists have warned that their loss will trigger “ecological Armageddon”.

“Since sperm function is essential for reproduction and population viability, these findings could provide one explanation for why biodiversity is suffering under climate change,” said Professor Gage.

“Heatwaves are particularly damaging extreme weather events. Local extinctions are known to occur when temperature changes become too intense.

“We wanted to know why this happens. And one answer could be related to sperm."

====== 437 ========

CHOCOLATE GIANT CADBURY ‘STILL PUSHING ORANGUTANS TOWARDS EXTINCTION'

The maker of Cadbury chocolate bars, Oreo biscuits and Ritz crackers is accused of destroying tens of thousands of hectares of orangutan habitat in just two years for palm oil.

Suppliers to food giant Mondelez have destroyed 70,000 hectares since 2016, analysis by Greenpeace International claims, pushing the primate further towards extinction.

The areas razed to the ground include 25,000 hectares of habitations in Indonesia that are home to the critically endangered orangutan.

Mondelez, which is one of the world’s biggest buyers of palm oil, uses it in many of its most popular products, including Cadbury and Roses chocolates, Oreos and Ritz crackers.

The new investigation, carried out through mapping Indonesia, discovered that between 2015 and 2017, 22 of the company’s palm oil suppliers cleared at least 70,000 hectares of rainforest – an area bigger than the City of Chicago, where Mondelez is based.

In a 31-page report detailing the supply chains of the main brands the charity says are responsible for destruction, Greenpeace points the finger largely at the producer of some of Britain’s favourite chocolates and snacks.

The report says that although Mondelez claims to have been purchasing entirely responsible palm oil since 2013, “in practice almost 95 per cent of the palm oil it buys is covered by ‘book-and-claim’ certificates – by far the weakest of the certification models offered by the main palm oil industry body, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)”.

Orangutans are literally dying for a biscuit

“This means that the plantations and producer groups from which the overwhelming majority of the palm oil that Mondelez purchases is sourced are not governed by any sustainability initiatives,” the study claims.

Greenpeace’s campaign against destructive palm oil hit the headlines over the weekend when a video that Iceland repurposed for a Christmas advert was banned from television for being “political”.

Campaigners have warned “it’s now or never” for Indonesia’s critically endangered orangutans, which are being killed at a rate of 25 a day as natural vegetation is bulldozed to make way for palm plantations.

In September this year Greenpeace International published Final Countdown, a report that showed Mondelez was sourcing palm oil from 22 of 25 destructive producer groups. “Alarmingly, these are just the cases that Greenpeace was able to identify – Mondelez sources from hundreds of palm oil companies and this destruction is likely just the tip of the iceberg,” it said.

Kiki Taufik, head of Greenpeace Southeast Asia’s Indonesia forests campaign, said: “It’s outrageous that despite promising to clean up its palm oil almost 10 years ago, Mondelez is still trading with forest destroyers.

“Palm oil can be made without destroying forests, yet our investigation discovered that Mondelez suppliers are still trashing forests and wrecking orangutan habitat, pushing these beautiful and intelligent creatures to the brink of extinction.

“They’re literally dying for a biscuit.”

Bornean orangutan numbers have halved in 16 years, studies show, and both the Sumatran and newly discovered Tapanuli orangutan lost more than half their habitat between 1985 and 2007.

All three species are classified by the International Union for Conservation of Nature as critically endangered, along with the Sumatran tiger and Sumatran rhino.

A spokeswoman for Mondelez International told The Independent the company was committed to eradicating deforestation in the palm oil supply and it was actively working with suppliers to ensure palm oil was fully traceable.

“We’re calling on our suppliers to further map and monitor the plantations where oil is grown so we can drive further traceability. We’re excluding 12 upstream suppliers from our supply chain who have not met our standards.

“For many years we have been calling for 100 per cent sustainable and we’re making good progress on our palm oil action plan.

“This includes actionable steps to ensure the palm oil we buy is produced on legally held land, does not lead to deforestation or loss of peat land, respects human rights and does not use forced or child labour.

“At the end of 2017, 96 per cent of our palm oil was traceable back to mill and 99 per cent was from suppliers with policies aligned to ours.”

She added that Mondelez was calling on suppliers to improve practices and to engage third-party suppliers to ensure production was fully sustainable and traceable.

“We will continue to prioritise suppliers that meet our principles, and exclude those that don’t,” she said.

====== 438 ========

BADGER CULL: BLAMING WILDLIFE WHILE NEGLECTING CHEAP FARMING IMPROVEMENTS 'SEVERELY HAMPERING' BOVINE TB FIGHT, REVIEW FINDS

The government’s bovine tuberculosis (bTB) strategy has allowed the culling of tens of thousands of badgers but neglected basic infection prevention on farms which is “severely hampering” efforts to control the disease, a major report has found.

Campaigners maintain that culling is ineffective as well as being costly and cruel, however an independent review of the scheme found the badger cull has had a “modest but real benefit” in reducing the disease.

However, the authors said that preventing the disease spreading between cattle on farms and in livestock trading was a more important way to control infection.

“If I had to say more one than the other it’s definitely more on the cattle to cattle side [than badger to cattle infection],” the review’s chair Sir Charles Godfray, professor of zoology at Oxford University, said.

“We realise that wildlife does have a role in this disease, but it’s wrong to put all the blame on wildlife and to use this as an excuse to not make hard decisions in industry, which is going to cost the industry money.”

Sir Charles said there was also an “urgent need for more evidence on the efficacy of vaccinations” to inoculate badgers. This approach is being used in cross-border efforts in Ireland, and the review panel called for government to adopt its own trials to develop the evidence.

While recognising the burden that bTB places on farmers and their families, the Bovine TB Strategy Review said there is “disappointingly low” uptake of basic biosecurity measures to limit its impact.

The report blames this on the backlash around badger culling which has had the “unfortunate consequence of … deflecting focus from what can be done by the individual farmer and livestock community”.

“In particular, the poor take up of on-farm biosecurity measures and the extent of trading in often high-risk cattle is, we believe, severely hampering disease control,” it said.

Other measures include keeping neighbouring herds separated to prevent the tuberculosis bacteria passing from nose to nose contact, and preventing badgers from getting on to farms, particularly around feed bins.

Recent evidence also raises the case for using a battery of tests on herds where bTB is suspected after research found a commonly used skin test is ineffective. It also highlights the spreading of manure slurry on fields which can increase the spread of bTB, and can be addressed with different treating methods or with more modern equipment to inject the slurry under the soil.

These efforts could have a greater impact on the spread of disease than culling, which the Badger Trust charity estimates could have killed as many as 75,000 badgers at a cost of “over £50m of public money”.

The review said the best evidence on the effect of culling remains the Randomised Badger Cull Trial (RBCT) that ran between 1998 and 2005 and suggests it can lower bTB incidence by around 15 per cent.

However Sir Charles said the group was “explicitly” told not to consider evidence from current culls that have been underway since 2013, although figures from Gloucestershire and Somerset were consistent with the RBCT.

The latest culls have incurred significant costs. The review says 32 culls have been authorised since 2013, at an average cost of £600,000 per site over a four year period – more than a third of this cost on policing.

The review’s publication comes a day after leading vets accused the government of “barefaced lies” in claiming these cull areas had already reduced bTB in cattle.

A letter published in the Vet Record journal argues data from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) is “unclear and deliberately opaque” and that bTB rates were falling before culling began.

The letter’s lead author, veterinary surgeon Dr Iain McGill of the Prion Interest Group, told the BBC there is now evidence bTB was rising in these areas, saying: “Badger culling has not worked. They are issuing barefaced lies in this matter.”

These concerns have been echoed by other campaigners.

“To date the government have spent over £50m of public money undertaking the largest destruction of a protected species in living memory,” said Dominic Dyer, CEO of the Badger Trust.

“Despite this huge slaughter the government have no reliable evidence that badger culling is lowering bovine bTB in cattle.

He added: “Although Sir Charles does not call for an end to the cruel, hugely costly and ineffective badger cull, he does recognise that badger vaccination could be a viable alternative to culling.”

Chris Sherwood, chief executive of the RSPCA, said: “Our concern is that the focus on blaming badgers has stalled vital research and investment to find more effective solutions that would save the lives of cattle and move away from the current futile killing of badgers.”

National Farmer’s Union vice president Stuart Roberts said: “The industry has stepped up to work with government in tackling bovine bTB.

“Farmers are already taking a range of steps to protect themselves against this disease. The Godfray review suggests more can be done but the question many cattle keepers have is which measures bring the greatest disease control benefits.”

Defra has stood by its use of the figures and said it would respond to the Godfray report after it had reviewed its recommendations.

Farming minister George Eustice said: “As a government we are committed to eradicating bTB and have always been clear that there is no single measure for tackling it.

“That’s why we have pursued a range of interventions, including cattle movement controls, vaccinations and controlled culling in certain areas.”

====== 439 ========

CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES: WHY TRUMP'S CLAIM 'FOREST MANAGEMENT' IS TO BLAME IS COMPLETELY WRONG - AND WHY HE'LL KEEP SAYING IT

Three separate wildfires raging in California have killed at least 31 people and as many as 200 more are currently missing while firefighters battle to contain the disaster.

The Camp Fire in the north of the state has burned 108,000 acres of land so far and is among deadliest in California history, while the Woolsey Fire near Los Angeles has claimed 83,275 acres and the Hill Fire in Ventura County scorched 4,531 more.

As many as 300,000 people have been forced to flee the apocalyptic scenes, many of them leaving behind family homes doomed to be consumed by the flames.

Against this backdrop, Donald Trump has exacerbated a situation in which emotions were already running high with a series to tweets blaming the infernos on the “gross mismanagement” of state forests at the hands of administrators.

The president’s insensitive response to the tragedy has drawn an angry reaction from local residents, opposition politicians and environmental scientists alike.

1 What did Trump say?

Taking time out from his visit to Europe to attend Armistice Day memorials to mark the centenary of the end of the First World War, the US president posted his latest tweet about the wildfires on Saturday.

“There is no reason for these massive, deadly and costly forest fires in California except that forest management is so poor,” he wrote.

“Billions of dollars are given each year, with so many lives lost, all because of gross mismanagement of the forests. Remedy now, or no more Fed payments!”

When the post threatening to withdraw funding was met with widespread condemnation from experts, rivals and influential celebrities like Katy Perry, Lady Gaga and Neil Young, the president repeated his attack on Twitter on Remembrance Sunday.

“With proper Forest Management, we can stop the devastation constantly going on in California. Get smart!”

In another tweet, since deleted, he wrote: “California wildfires are being magnified & made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which aren't allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!”

2 What is forest management?

Mr Trump was referring to the process by which woodlands are tended, harvested and encouraged to regenerate by local environmental agencies.

The work of these bodies, responsible for general managerial oversight, involves strategic timber felling, planting new species and clearing pathways for visitors.

In addition to balancing the needs of economic initiatives like logging with sustainable conservation practices, forest management authorities are also responsible for preventing and containing fires.

This might involve the digging of fire lines, effectively waterless moats to separate blocks of trees, and extinguishing blazes when they erupt.

3 Is Trump right?

The president has been attacked by his opponents both for politicising a natural disaster and for refusing to engage with overwhelming scientific evidence that climate change is to blame for the extent of the devastation, not mismanagement.

The Pasadena Fire Association meanwhile tweeted: “Mr. President, with all due respect, you are wrong. The fires in So. Cal are urban interface fires and have NOTHING to do with forest management. Come to SoCal and learn the facts & help the victims.”

Speaking for the emergency services personnel on the ground, the president of the California Professional Firefighters union commented: “Wildfires are sparked and spread not only in forested areas but in populated areas and open fields fuelled by parched vegetation, high winds, low humidity and geography.

“Moreover, nearly 60 per cent of California forests are under federal management, and another two-thirds under private control. It is the federal government that has chosen to divert resources away from forest management, not California,” Brian K Rice said.

Mr Rice further branded Mr Trump’s assertion “ill-timed, ill-informed and demeaning to those who are suffering” as well as “dangerously wrong” in conversation with CNN.

Among the celebrities weighing in was Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio, known for his environmental activism: “The reason these wildfires have worsened is because of climate change and a historic drought. Helping victims and fire relief efforts in our state should not be a partisan issue.”

California has recently suffered a five-year drought, meaning the dry condition of brush lining forest floors serves as an ideal fuel for wildfires. Although these occur naturally as part of the lifecycle of any woodland, their increasing prevalence in California in recent decades serves as an ever-more convincing argument for global warming.

High pressure 70mph winds sweeping down from the mountains and desert-standard levels of humidity have further encouraged the spread of the current blazes, picking up embers and making new flare-ups more difficult to contain.

CNN meteorologist Tom Sater points to these Santa Ana winds playing a role in the disaster, which are keeping rain from the Pacific at bay and mean the expected October rainfall has not happened this year, as suggesting “the fingerprints of climate change”.

“This is not the new normal, this is the new abnormal. The chickens are coming home to roost, this is real here,” agrees state governor Jerry Brown.

While Mr Trump might broadly be right to say more needs to be done to clear dead forest to prevent this tinder box effect from taking place, this has little bearing on the situation in the beach resort community of Malibu and enacting such a programme is difficult without the proper resources in place.

Further withdrawing federal funding seems unlikely to help the situation and Mr Trump’s threat has been likened to defunding the National Hurricane Centre until the hurricanes go away.

His suggestion that a lack of access to water is hindering firefighters was also dismissed by Scott McLean of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, observing that planes seeking bodies of water to scoop up and dump over the flames have no shortage of rivers, lakes and ponds at their disposal.

Chemical retardants are more commonly used for the purpose these days in any event.

4 Why might he express this point of view?

The president has long expressed doubts about climate change and infamously pulled the US out of the 2015 Paris Accord. His search for alternative explanations behind the California fires is entirely consistent with that stance.

Critics suggest his rejection of the evidence has more to do with opposition to potentially restrictive environmental legislation hindering lucrative business opportunities than a heartfelt scepticism about the prospect of global warming.

Accusing California of mismanaging the situation would provide a platform for him to further reduce federal funding the state’s forestry authorities – as he has threatened – and, perhaps, make the case for private enterprise stepping in in future, opening the door to commercial opportunity.

This fear has been raised by California Democrats on social media, who believe the president harbours a special disdain for their state, which so roundly rejected him at the polls, hence his latest criticism of its running.

Republican senator Cory Gardner has since moved to reassure the people of California, telling NBC’s Meet the Press: “That’s not going to happen.”

Fellow senator Lindsey Graham concurred on CBS’s Face the Nation: “We do have a forest management problem all over the country that we need to address but California will receive the money they need.”

It should not be forgotten that the president is also adept in the art of distraction, as when he took a sudden interest in the plight of white farmers in South Africa this August at precisely the moment Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible Russian election meddling was heating up.

His fear-mongering over the migrant caravan during the midterms was another example of his seeking to steer the national debate to his advantage.

Some will point to his attack on the “gross mismanagement” of California’s forests neatly moving the conversation on among some from last week’s scandal about the White House possibly sharing doctored footage of press corps reporter Jim Acosta to imply he shoved an intern seeking to remove his mic.

====== 440 ========

CLIMATE CHANGE PROTESTERS CHAIN THEMSELVES TOGETHER AND BLOCK ENTRANCES AT ENERGY DEPARTMENT OFFICES IN WESTMINSTER

Climate change protesters have chained themselves together to block the doors to the government’s energy department headquarters as part of a campaign of direct action.

At least two activists were arrested - an 85-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman - after the demonstrators lay in front of the entrance and turnstiles at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.

Some glued their hands to the doors, others sang protest songs or banged drums.

Members of Christian Climate Action and Extinction Rebellion said they were protesting in solidarity with the anti-fracking movement and called on ministers to do more to prevent climate disaster.

It was the start of a planned fortnight of mass civil disobedience in which hundreds of protesters say they are prepared to face arrest.

“We’re here to force the government into action about the increasing ecological disaster that’s happening,” Christian Climate Action tweeted.

“We do this not because we want to, but because our beautiful planet is at stake. When all avenues have been tried and failed, non-violent direct action is the only way.

“If we don’t take action now, we will be the last generation who can.

