WELCOME TO THE WORLD'S FIRST 'SOCIAL EXPERIMENT' HOTEL ROOM

There’s a guestbook asking probing questions such as “what’s your greatest fear?” and “what’s your greatest achievement?”. There’s an iPad on the bedside table loaded with a curated Spotify playlist. The whiteboard in the room has some weird confessions on it, including: “I have a boyfriend” (by Luca, age six) and “sometimes I don’t like my kids. But only sometimes”.

This oversharing is the backbone of Room 301, a three-month “social experiment” taking place at the Kimpton Everly in Hollywood, Los Angeles, a hotel brand long known for its focus on local experiences.

Room 301 is designed to connect guests to the stories of the guests that have stayed in the room before them, which is basically the polar opposite of what hotels do: make reference to the fact that other people have stayed in the room, and the same bed. The hotel’s own rationale reads: “Room 301 reflects Kimpton’s belief that heartfelt human connections make peoples’ lives better and the idea that commonalities and connections exist between all people – no matter their background or life story. Room 301 seeks to uncover the intersections and variances of the human experience.”

There is context. For many years, hotels have been no more than bed factories, providing somewhere clean, safe and warm for travellers overnight. As guests demand more authentic experiences, hotels have morphed into lifestyle brands in their own right – just last week the W hotel chain, owned by hospitality behemoth Marriott, launched its own record label – with things like fashion lines, art galleries and experience “curators”.

That human experience is borne out in a number of interactive elements inside the room. I went inside to check it out.

There’s the confession board (where one of the first guests drew a lewd drawing – naturally. It was removed), a pinboard on which to write an affirmation for the next guest, a Spotify playlist loaded with each guest’s personal track, plus the chance to record a video testimonial, which will only be seen by the hotel. The questions that every guest has to answer include “what is your favourite thing about yourself and why?” and “when was the last time you cried or laughed intensely?”. It feels surprisingly personal, but I suppose staying in a hotel room such as this is.

There are aesthetic elements, too. A pink neon “stay human” – Kimpton’s logo – beams from the wall, while LA artist Colette Miller’s blue-grey angel wings stand guard above the bed. There’s a cracking view of the Hollywood sign from the window, too. Guests can also enjoy a “mystery vice” cocktail downstairs at the bar, based on one of the seven deadly sins.

Perhaps the biggest social experiment of them all is the room’s “pay it forward” activity. Each guest will be given a certificate for 10,000 IHG Rewards Club Points, which they can then choose to keep, or pay forward to the next guest. That’s the one part of this activation that I’m genuinely interested to know the outcome of. I’m not sure I’d choose to gift a stranger thousands of reward points, however karmic it might feel.

The information about each Room 301 guest – from their cocktail choice to the video diary – is recorded by the hotel, and will be shared when the “experiment” comes to a conclusion on 30 November. There are big business benefits for the hotel: the data collected by each guest offers the brand an opportunity to really get under the skin of their clientele.

“With Room 301 we’ll get to know the individuals who stay in the room – their experiences, aspirations and values. We hope to have some interesting insights that can inspire the way we continue to build community at our hotels and restaurants,” said Kathleen Reidenbach, chief commercial officer at Kimpton.

Then next spring the hotel will invite all past guests to meet each other and swap stories of their night in the room.

My take? It sounds utterly mortifying, and I’d rather not think about the guest that had stayed in the bed before me, or showered in the bathroom before me. That said, it’s a super interesting concept, and I’ve never come across such a personal hotel room before. The concept has proved popular with guests around the world, according to the pin map by the door, which shows where guests are from. (Most are American, and only a couple were from Europe.)

If you fancy getting involved with the experiment and staying a night in Room 301, you can book until 30 November. But spoiler: Room 301 isn’t actually room 301. It’s on the 12th floor...

Essentials

Room 301 guests receive a 10 per cent off the best flexible rate at Kimpton Everly (which works out at around $250 a night), plus a $10 donation to a local charity project. everlyhotelhollywood.com

====== 339 ========

WILLIAMSBURG IS STILL THE COOLEST NEW YORK NEIGHBOURHOOD – THIS IS WHY

I stayed in Bushwick in deepest Brooklyn this summer. It still felt a little sketchy late at night, although there was the usual hipster creep: super-fun, bulb-lit bar Carmelo’s on DeKalb Avenue, Milk & Pull coffee on Irving Street. The Bushwick Collective (what even is a collective?) was a ramshackle scrapyard turned alfresco bar, art and games outfit on Troutman Street. I went to next-door upmarket fish restaurant Sea Wolf and stared down some graffiti while drinking frosé – the frozen cocktail.

Bushwick is so hip it even has a truncated nickname: ’Schwick. Ugh. As a 32-year-old who likes sitting down and going to bed at 10pm, I felt 109 years old.

It’s probably how I’d have felt in Williamsburg a decade ago. This neighbourhood, on the East River, was one of the first to kickstart Brooklyn’s metamorphosis from gritty to glam, attracting a bunch of Manhattanites across the Williamsburg Bridge for its cheaper rents and bigger spaces. Since November 2012, median home prices have jumped from $575,000 to almost $900,000 in September 2018, according to real estate firm Zillow. Neither bohemians nor hipsters live here any longer: they can’t afford it.

Unfortunately for them, I’m going to say that Williamsburg has lost none of its cool points to neighbourhoods further down the L train line. Sorry. It’s morphed into a sort of relaxed, adult kind of cool, perfect for those in the upper millennial age bracket.

Here’s how to spend a grown-up weekend in Williamsburg.

Where to hang

Geographically, Williamsburg has much on its side. It faces the East River, overlooking the bombastic skyscrapers of midtown Manhattan. The streets are clean and wide, pounded by joggers, young families and dog walkers (I stalked a great dane/dalmatian cross down Wythe Avenue one morning).

The groomed Domino Park (complete with taco shack and morning zumba classes) and East River Park – with its blink-and-you’ll-miss-it beach and Saturday food market, Smorgasburg – make for a blissed-out neighbourhood feel. Hipster ground zero is Bedford Avenue, a zingy stretch that combines vintage stores (try Awoke Vintage for a curated shopping experience), taquerias and dingy little dive bars begging for a visit.

Plus: the East River. When the L train shuts down next spring, Williamsburg residents have the option of nipping across the Williamsburg Bridge to the Lower East Side, or, far more quixotically and New York-y, commuting by ferry. The NYC Ferry system is still reasonably new, and the short bob from Williamsburg to Brooklyn’s Dumbo/Downtown is genuinely one of the loveliest ways to spend an afternoon and see the city in a whole different way.

Where to stay

The district has been given a shot in the arm with the opening of the Hoxton, the Shoreditch import owned by property developer Ennismore, on almost-riverfront Wythe Avenue. The lifestyle hotel, on the site of a former water tank factory, and the characterful brand’s only foray into America (before Portland, Oregon, follows later this month), has all the accoutrements popular with the trend set: rooftop bar, Summerly, with killer views across to eastern Manhattan (tick); comfy living room-like lobby decked out in millennial pink and soft mustard (tick); and sexy hotel staff in starched white shirts and cool trainers (tick). Rooms are cosy (ask for an East River facing one to wake up to views of the Lower East Side) but since you’ll be spending all your time on the rooftop or in the downstairs lounge, does it really matter?

“The team travel the globe looking for places we like to hang out in and New York has always been in our sights, we love its energy,” says Sharan Pasricha, founder of Ennismore, which owns the Hoxton hotel brand. “The key was to find a neighbourhood where The Hoxton could put down roots and we found that on Wythe Avenue. In many ways, Williamsburg has the same creative spirit and sense of community as Shoreditch, where we first opened our doors in 2006, with its exciting restaurant scene, buzzy bars and independent stores.”

The Hoxton, three years in the making, had some serious competition along Wythe Avenue.

Opposite the Hoxton is the Williamsburg Hotel (complete with rooftop water tower that’s being developed into a bar), while further down is the Wythe and the William Vale, known for its swaggering, 60ft rooftop pool. (One journalist I met in Williamsburg told me her friends were hanging out on the roof all summer. Well, I’m not surprised.)

I checked into this vertical, girdered palace one hot September night to check out the views. Even from my room on the 22nd floor (complete with generous rectangle balcony facing the Williamsburg Bridge) the view is Imax-wide and the stuff of Brooklyn bucket lists. In fact, I’ll go so far as to say it’s got the best views in the entire district, while inside a geometric-meets-sunglasses-bright-white feels like I’m in a very cutting-edge nightclub. (And if you can’t stay, visit the southern Italian restaurant Leuca, on the ground floor: there is a slightly more grown-up feel, with belly-warming dishes such as whole chicken slathered with salsa verde and bouncy octopus; or the rooftop patio Westlight.)

Eat and drink

Where to brunch? There’s Sunday in Brooklyn, an irreverent spot where the menu has a French bulldog on the front and the 3D pancakes are so indulgent we them ordered for Instagram only. Then there’s Cafe Colette, one block down from the Hoxton, which has a handful of metal tables outside that are consistently packed. Palm fronds and wooden stools inside give it a slightly tropical vibe – although the chocolate French toast and poached eggs are definitely home-comfort hangover food. Brooklyn favourite Five Leaves, on the north corner of McCarren Park, has a laid-back Aussie feel – come early at the weekend or risk waiting an hour for your eggs and bottomless coffee.

In Williamsburg on a Saturday? The sprawling Smorgasburg market in the East River Park has 100 vendors selling Instafamous dishes like the ramen burger (two clusters of noodles make up the bun, with a fat patty in the middle flavoured with coriander and soy); the lobster nest, a whole lobster on a bed of garlic noodles; or Japanese shaved ice.

And drinking, which, in Williamsburg, you’ll definitely be doing. That could be hitting the primary coloured bowling lanes of Brooklyn Bowl (according to one unnamed source: “full of youths hooking up”) and drinking pints (pints!) of margarita; drinking a craft cocktail at Hotel Delmano; or just banging back the sundowners at Summerly on the Hoxton’s roof before a lazy dinner at buzzy Klein’s downstairs.

Brooklyn Brewery just off Wythe Avenue galvanised the local beer scene and today is still as rough and tumble as when it first opened (plus, most bars and pubs in the neighbourhood loyally serve its beers). Brewery Berry Park, opposite McCarren Park, has a quiet rooftop and great happy hour deals on beer.

And that new NYC Ferry service? It has margaritas on tap, which definitely won’t end up down your front the moment the ferry pulls away. And really, what could be more grown-up than that?

Essentials

Getting there

Virgin Atlantic offers up to eight flights per day between London Heathrow and New York JFK, with fares starting from £320 for travel this winter, including taxes and fees.

Staying there

Rooms at The Hoxton start from $159 plus taxes, which includes a daily breakfast bag.

The William Vale has rooms from $445 a night plus tax. The hotel is offering a Fall Retreat package, which gives 10 per cent off your stay plus a swag bag worth $250 (valid until 1 December).

Visiting there

For more information, visit nycgo.com

====== 340 ========

WHY YOU SHOULD VISIT HANOI FOR MID-AUTUMN FESTIVAL

An explosion of colour and a hugely-photogenic cultural celebration across Asia, Mid-Autumn festival may not be as well-known as Lunar New Year, but it provides just as good an excuse to visit countries which mark it in style. Of those, few are as memorable a destination as Vietnam, while the ancient capital of Hanoi is the ideal base for joining in the food and fun-filled festivities that this year fall on 24 September.

Vietnam’s Mid-Autumn festival is called Tet Trung Thu and has been celebrated for more than 4,000 years, having originally marked the end of the rice harvest in the Red River Delta around the capital. Parents were busy during the harvest, so the festival holiday at the end was a chance to spend time with their children. Fast-forward four millennia and that means that kids are front and centre, while it’s also a great way for visitors of all ages to truly immerse themselves in traditional Vietnamese culture.

Reachable in 12 hours from London, Hanoi is a large and hectic city with roads that can be notoriously difficult to cross thanks to swarms of mopeds at every turn (if in doubt, just cross confidently and whatever you do, don’t stop). It pays to have a central base within easy reach of the main sights, something that means you also get to avoid Hanoi’s taxi drivers, not all of whom graduated from charm school.

Charm is definitely in abundance, however, at the Sofitel Legend Metropole Hanoi, the city’s most iconic hotel that has been welcoming illustrious visitors including Graham Greene and Charlie Chaplin since 1901. The colonial era building with its elegant white facade and dark green shutters sits right in the heart of Hanoi’s French Quarter, just a few minutes’ walk from the stunning neoclassical Opera House and the peaceful Hoan Kiem lake.

Elsewhere, the Unesco World Heritage Site Imperial Citadel of Thang Long definitely merits a visit. It provides a fascinating look at the city’s role as the centre of regional power for almost 1,300 years, while special events and exhibitions provide insight into the cultural significance of the Mid-Autumn festival.

Not unlike Christmas, much of the festival’s importance comes in the buildup and there’s no more atmospheric or Instagrammable spot to experience it than Hang Ma Street in Hanoi’s Old Quarter. Dozens of shops, stalls and walking hawkers sell a huge array of technicolour star-shaped lanterns and traditional toys hand-crafted in paper and bamboo. There are animal face masks that kids decorate and paint, while vast piles of drums give a not very subtle hint that you’ll be staying up late on Mid-Autumn festival (whether you want to or not).

Speaking of which, when it comes to the big night, prepare for a brilliant sensory overload. Families gather together across the city as they seek out spots to watch the full moon – it represents prosperity and fullness in life – just one of many traditions that have passed down through the generations. Hanoi’s lakes and bridges in particular draw visitors in their tens of thousands. Paper lanterns soar skywards, there are street puppet shows, lion dances and live music, markets and incredible food at every turn.

Even on a normal day, Hanoi easily ranks as one of Asia’s finest eating destinations. The late Anthony Bourdain called Vietnam “my first love; a place I remain besotted with, fascinated by”. He was famously joined by President Obama for a bowl of bun cha grilled pork noodles at Bun Cha Huong Lien, now a popular stop on the tourist trail. Forget the seated photo opp, however, as the table in question is today encased in glass and hangs on a wall – but the bun cha is just as sensational as ever.

Eating at Mid-Autumn festival is largely about street food and snacks, so follow your nose – and other customers – to any intriguing, steaming bowl or grill. One dish that is absolutely fundamental to the festival is known as mooncake, or Bánh Trung Thu. You certainly won’t miss them as they’re absolutely everywhere, and are offered by friends and family while celebrating – tuck in.

Round or square, they’re usually baked or occasionally made from sticky rice, with fillings that can include combinations of salted egg yolk, dried sausage, mung bean paste, sugared pork fat or lotus seed. As you can guess, they’re not exactly diet friendly. Increasingly, however, there are more contemporary and slightly less decadent versions on offer, so look out for caramel with dried fig or pistachio and coffee flavours, both on offer at L’Epicerie du Metropole.

While the flavours and some of the customs of the Mid-Autumn festival have transformed over the years, this is still a hugely special time to visit Hanoi. The cooler and milder weather, the rich cultural kaleidoscope and one of the country’s biggest national holidays all combine to ensure that there are few better chances to get to know the Vietnamese capital like a local.

Travel essentials

Getting there

Qatar Airways flies from London Heathrow via Doha to Hanoi’s Noi Bai international airport from £545 return.

Staying there

The Metropole Hotel offers doubles from £210, room only.

====== 341 ========

THE CRAZY RICH (AND NOT-SO-RICH) GUIDE TO SINGAPORE

The action of smash-hit movie Crazy Rich Asians, which opens in the UK this weekend, takes place in Singapore's most swaggering hangouts. But Asia's most glam city also has plenty of low-key attractions too.

Here's a crazy rich and not-so-rich guide to Singapore.

Rooftop pizzazz

Crazy rich?

Marina Bay Sands is the triple-tower ship-topped building that cost £4.2bn to build and is hands-down Singapore’s most bonkers and bling piece of architecture. Rooftop bar Ce La Vi, on the 57th floor, is the party hotspot for a moneyed crowd. Accompanying 360-degree vistas of the skyline and the supertrees in Gardens By the Bay are plates of wagyu beef ribeye and 2kg portions of beef tomahawk, alongside bottles of 1961 First Growth Pessac-Léognan​, Chateau Haut-Brion or Vintage Dom Perignon Rose.

Not-so-rich

Lantern, the rooftop bar at the swanky Fullerton Bay Hotel might not have the views of Marina Bay Sands (it’s much lower down) – but on the flipside has great views of the landmark itself, an infinity pool for Instaglam photos, and a happy hour (11am-6pm) where beers cost £6.50 each, and selected wine and cocktails are £8.

Drinking dens

Crazy rich?

Atlas Bar offers 1,011 different varieties of gin in a grand lobby bar in Parkview Square, Singapore’s so-called Batman Building. At art deco Atlas, unrestrained opulence is the watchword: ceilings are frescoed and gins displayed in an 8m high gilded tower. Go all-out with rare vintage shots – a measure of 1910 Bell Sec Dry Gin costs £105. Or for £106,000, try some “Shipwreck Champagne”: one of 3,000 bottles of 1907 Heidsieck & Co. Monopole “Goût Américain”, which ended up at the bottom of the Baltic Sea when a contraband schooner sank in 1916 carrying Tsar Nikolai II’s booze order. When brought to the surface 80 years later, many bottles remained drinkable – for those who can afford it.

Not-so-rich

As elegant as Atlas, but a little less ostentatious, Smoke and Mirrors is an intimate bar tucked inside cultural heavyweight The National Gallery. Decor at the indoor-outdoor bar is all brushed copper and dark wood, while tables are packed with punters in elegant eveningwear and Jimmy Choos. Mixologist Yugnes Susela shakes up some of the Lion City’s most innovative cocktails, including the Purple Gringo (juniper agave, miso caviar and sherry) and the Oddly G&T (pineapple sake, gin and pink peppercorn), for around £15 each.

Tasting menus

Crazy rich?

Japanese chef Tetsuya Wakuda is behind legendary Tetsuya’s restaurant in Sydney, and two-Michelin-starred Waku Ghin is the chef’s only overseas outpost. The 25-seat restaurant’s curved walls feature niches with silver artworks in them, and diners eat in private rooms during a 10-course feast which costs from £250 per person. Signature dishes on the European-Japanese menu include marinated Botan sea shrimp with caviar and sea urchin, and wagyu with wasabi.

Not-so-rich

When courses are referred to as acts, you know it’s fancy. Another two-Michelin star affair, Odette, offers contemporary French fine dining by chef Julien Royer in elegant surroundings that feel part Scandi-chic, part old-school French white tablecloth glamour. Provenance of ingredients is key: seafood comes from Hokkaido, artisan cheese and asparagus from France. Rather than just one long tasting menu, Odette offers four, six and eight-course lunch options, which are significantly cheaper than its £180 eight-course dinner. A four-course lunch costs just £70.

Arty hangouts

Crazy rich?

Private members’ clubs are where Singapore’s super-rich head when they’re in need of a cultural hit. At swish members’ club 1880 in Robertson Quay you’ll find venture capitalists networking with models and tech whizzes. A roster of exclusive events includes life-drawing classes and talks from Nobel Prize winners on gene-splitting or digital gurus demystifying blockchain. Membership (by invitation or application) costs around £2,800 to join, then £1,200 annually.

Not-so-rich

You might have to hobnob with the hoi polloi, but recently-opened multi-concept space Telok Ayer Arts Club in the CBD has taken the concept of a traditional community centre and turned it hipster. Packed with creatives pondering over the work of up-and-coming artists such as Abigail Goh in funky spaces, its club nights – overseen by Hasnor Sidik, aka trendsetting EDM DJ Mr Has – are the place to network with rising art stars. Best of all? Entry is free.

Private island weekenders

Crazy rich?

Nothing but a break on a private Indonesian eco-island will do. The jet-set choice is Bawah Reserve in the Anambas Islands, a clutch of beachy isles in the South China Sea. A three-and-a-half hour journey, including a portion by private seaplane, takes you to a Maldives-feel retreat with powder-white beaches, sprawling jungle and turtle-filled waters. Bawah has just 35 tented suites, jungle villas, overwater bungalows and a treetop bar and restaurant designed by acclaimed architect Sim Boon Yang. Once you’re there “island hosts” (at least one per guest) cater to holiday whims, arranging champagne picnics on uninhabited islands and boat parties. Rooms are from £1,400 a night and the all-inclusive rate covers spa treatments, dining, transfers and some activities.

Not-so-rich

Just as exclusive is adults-only Cempedak Island, in the Riau archipelago. An eco-hip haven where almost everything – right down to the record player in the treetop bar where cachaca (a spirit made from fermented sugarcane juice) and green tea-infused cocktails are served – is built with bamboo. Two-and-a-half hours by ferry, chauffeur and powerboat from Singapore, Cempedak’s 20 beachside and jungle villas have teardrop-shaped plunge pools and decks perfect for al-fresco parties. Rooms here are from £404 a night, including delicious meals and transfers.

====== 342 ========

THE BEST PLACES TO LEARN MUAY THAI KICKBOXING IN THAILAND

I’m lying face down on the floor of a Thai boxing ring in Bangkok when I’m reminded of “Rembrandt”. That was the nickname of a tough old boy in a boxing gym back in London. I’d always thought he was called that out of respect, because he was an Old Master, or maybe because he was considered an artist in the ring. “Nah,” my coach told me. “It’s because he spends so much time on the canvas.”

I could write an entire travel guide to the various canvases of Thailand: at the MuayThai Institute it’s springy but smelly; at Fightlab it’s soft but non-absorbent; in Koh Samui it has the best views down to the ocean; and at The Siam, it feels like velvet.

Twenty years ago – the last time I was in Thailand – most of my fellow UK travellers were rich kids gazing at the cashmere lint in their navels, squaddies on benders and creepy radio DJ types. Back then you avoided the few oddballs who came to learn muay thai: weedy kids who’d watched too many Jean-Claude Van Damme films and thought rat-infested accommodation and one-handed press-ups were character building.

All that has changed. The country has gone from seedy to upscale; from party animals at full moon raves to downward dog at sunrise. Thailand is now a top destination for fitness holidays, yoga retreats and spa breaks.

The fight scene has changed radically too. I’m in Thailand on a week long tour of all the top muay thai schools, looking for somewhere to spend a few months training next year. I’m amazed by the evolution. Vast, air-conditioned martial arts palaces with state-of-the-art gyms, nutritionists and paleo cafes are par for the course since the explosion of MMA (mixed martial arts) took fighting mainstream. It’s the go-to sport for the beautiful people. On my travels I spot a football star in one camp and have a Victoria’s Secret model as a neighbour in another. In 2016, Idris Elba spent months in Thailand training for his first professional kickboxing fight. He won.

Nowhere defines this better than The Siam in Bangkok. It’s a hotel that’s famous for its beautiful design, priceless collection of antiquities and – somewhat incongruously – muay thai. The star of the show is Yin. He’s an Olympic coach and counts the Thai princesses as clients.

Like a lot of legends he’s smaller than you expect, but still a towering presence when viewed from the canvas. There’s an inverse rule-of-thumb in martial arts: the more lethal the fighter, the more friendly they tend to be. Yin is very friendly indeed. Even his broken English makes his deadly art sound delightful. “I hit and make you very sleepy,” refers to a knock-out punch. “You go to bed with wheels!” He means a hospital trolley.

What I enjoy most is learning about the wai khru. It’s a short Thai ritual set to music that every fighter performs before a bout. I’ll admit, I wasn’t massively interested at first – I wanted to fight, not morris dance – but Yin explains it’s about giving thanks and showing respect to your country, the land, your parents and teachers. It’s good for stretching too. There’s also a bit where you mimic shooting an arrow three times at your enemy. You pretend to miss twice but you persevere and eventually hit your target. Sure, it’s a bit “if at first you don’t succeed, try, try again” translated into dance, but one of the joys of travel is hearing home truths in foreign tongues and seeing them afresh. And if mantras and words to live by are your thing, The Siam has its own tattooist who does magical religious sak yant designs (think of the mystical diagrams gracing the shoulders of Angelina Jolie and Cara Delevingne).

If you want MMA then head for Bangkok Fight Lab. It’s run by Morgan Perkins, a softly spoken Brazilian jujutsu black belt from Utah who has lived in Bangkok for more than a decade. The place is like an aircraft hanger – it has a muay thai ring, a caged octagon, lots of mats to roll on and endless punchbags. At one end, scores of men and women climb up and down very long, heavy ropes beneath a ceiling fan the size of a helicopter rotor. It’s like a scene from James Bond or Austin Powers, with ninjas training inside the baddy’s secret base.

I decide to take a brief break from getting my arse kicked and check out the pros at Lumpinee Stadium. It turns out to be exceptionally cheap to get front row seats to some amazing fights. I take time to watch the crowd too, observe the trainers and their fighters, and breathe in the Tiger Balm-laced air – this is muay thai.

Next I’m off to Koh Samui, where I go to train with Ralph Beale at Lamai Muay Thai Camp. “Half Thai, half Cockney,” Ralph is a humble man with an incredible passion for muay thai. People travel from all over the world to train with him, around half of them women. Kelly Hayes, a British fighter, is there at the same time as me, training for one of her big bouts while her boyfriend goes sightseeing.

Although I’m training at an intense camp, I opt for a little more luxury with my hotel choice and stay at the Four Seasons, which has villas scattered across a lush green hill that slopes steeply down to the beach. Impeccable staff scoot around in golf buggies ferrying guests between massages, scrubs, facials on the beach and yoga in the treetops; there’s even a muay thai boxing ring perched on top of the hill.

Beach holidays, infinity pools and feelgood therapies usually bore me senseless; this time, I love it. Having released my Tyler Durden, I’m more than happy to embrace my inner snowflake. Yoga? It’s great for those high kicks. Spas? Pop another cucumber on my swollen eye, please. They even offer a muay thai recovery massage with herbal steam.

Later – kale, spirulina and lemongrass smoothie in hand – I get all reflective in my private infinity pool and realise just how insufferable I’ve become. But I don’t beat myself up too much. It’s much more fun to hire someone to do it for you.

Travel essentials

An eight night trip to Thailand with Abercrombie & Kent costs from £3,450 per person, B&B. This includes three nights at The Siam Bangkok and five nights at The Four Seasons Resort Koh Samui in a one bedroom villa, plus a five day muay thai tour, international and internal flights and private transfers.

====== 343 ========

PLAY HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW THERESA MAY?

====== 344 ========

PLAY YESTERYEAR CELEBRITIES: HOW MANY CAN YOU NAME?

====== 345 ========

MOUSSA SISSOKO, TOTTENHAM’S ANARCHO-SYNDICALIST, MANY-LIMBED ENIGMA, WEAVES CHELSEA INTO HIS DIZZYING VORTEX OF CHAOS

Great central midfielders often take on the personae of artists. Xavi, obviously enough, was Monet: all short, perfect dapples, not a stroke wasted. Zinedine Zidane was Caravaggio: the piercing light and the devastating dark, the infinite poise and the murderous desire. Moussa Sissoko, on the other hand, is more like one of those video installation artists who films himself sitting naked in a chair in a disused warehouse, before getting up, very deliberately picking up a sledgehammer, and violently demolishing everything in sight, right down to the four walls around him, and then pressing himself tight up against the camera, a terrifying smile on his face, and whispering: “Free the animals.”

On a night of lawless abandon at Wembley Stadium, nothing encapsulated Tottenham's dizzying supremacy quite like the sight of Sissoko running the midfield like a one-man anarcho-syndicalist cell. The headlines belonged to Son Heung-Min and Harry Kane, David Luiz and Jorginho. But in a way it was Sissoko who was the key to this game, its C4, its unreliable narrator, the enigmatic architect of Chelsea’s chaos.

Part of the reason it’s so hard to get a handle on Sissoko, I think, is that he always looks so utterly startled to have the ball at his feet. Every time he gets it, he stares at it for a moment, as if this were a turn of events he had scarcely bargained for. “Why did none of you warn me?” you can see him beseeching his team-mates, while he gamely grapples with this mysterious white orb bobbling off one of his many legs.

That’s the other thing about Sissoko: the legs. You’d swear he has more than two of them. Watch Sissoko tackle an opponent – as he did on several occasions here – and you will be treated to a curious optical illusion by which he appears to attack the ball from both sides at once. There was one moment late in the first half when Mateo Kovacic was charging up the left wing and Sissoko – despite giving away a good 10 yards on him – hunted him down, swung in several of his legs and won the ball so comprehensively that you wouldn’t be surprised if Kovacic hired an entire team of investigators to discover what happened to it.

We’re doing Sissoko a slight disservice here. Once he gets the ball under control, he can be surprisingly fleet of foot, as he proved when he sent Willian up the Jubilee Line to Stanmore in the build-up to Tottenham’s second goal. But by and large, when you’re surrounded by a team of highly skilled technical players, you’re always going to stand out when your first touch is really just a warm-up act for your second and third touches.

This, perhaps, is why Sissoko has spent so much of his time at Tottenham looking so entirely ill-suited to it. Signed in the dying hours of the 2016 transfer window for £30 million, back in the days when that was a lot of money, Sissoko always carried the whiff of a panic purchase, an impression he failed to dispel over the two subsequent seasons. He was usually deployed on the right wing, often as a hopeful substitute. And yet in an age when so many teams direct their press towards the flanks, the modern winger, working with little space, often needs to be the most precise player on the pitch.

Sissoko, bless his socks, is not precise. But he offers different qualities, qualities Tottenham have distinctly lacked of late: pace, awkwardness, forward thrust. There’s an urgency to Sissoko, both with and without the ball, that makes him the ideal foil for a team that occasionally gets lost in their own noodlings. He steams in, wins the ball, moves it on. And so at some point, Mauricio Pochettino realised the best way to use him: not on the flank where he would inevitably get squeezed out, but in the centre, where opposition teams never quite know where the ball is going next, because often neither does Sissoko. The injury to Mousa Dembele has been particularly timely in this respect: Dembele is the sort of player you bring in when you want to control a game. Sissoko is the sort of player you bring in when you want to control an opposition.

This, of course, is the genius of Pochettino. “If it’s in you, I’ll find it,” David Brent memorably promised in The Office. Pochettino, remarkably, goes further: even if it’s not in you, somehow he’ll still find it. And though Sissoko naturally deserves plenty of credit himself, the resurrection of his career is one that could not have occurred without Pochettino’s relentless reinforcement, his exhaustive search for solutions, his zealous cultivation of an environment in which even the fringe players, the misfits, the out-of-form and the out-on-loan, can feel the love and ultimately flourish.

Was this all part of the plan? Could this be the start of something big? As ever with Sissoko, nobody knows. Sometimes, you think you know. You may even have made up your mind about him at one point. But in a way, this was one of those nights that offered not reason but riddles, not conclusions but conundrums. A night to simply sit back, relax and be utterly baffled.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 346 ========

ENGLAND'S ANSWER TO JONAH LOMU, JOE COKANASIGA HAS ALL THE TOOLS TO GIVE THEM THEIR X FACTOR AT THE WORLD CUP

When Eddie Jones made special mention of Ben Moon and Mark Wilson after an autumn campaign that can only go down as a success, it was out of both pleasure with seeing how they have come into the side in the absence of the established Vunipola brothers and courtesy, in the knowledge that if Mako and Billy are fit come September, they will lead the Rugby World Cup campaign.

But his praise of Joe Cokanasiga was different, perhaps due to his delight at finding a little bit of X-factor that he has been looking out for.

Cokanasiga only turned 21 years old 10 days ago, has just 29 club appearances to his name and made only his second international appearance against Australia, but on Saturday it felt like a star was born. The Bath protégé starred in a try-scoring debut last weekend, but that was against Japan and without disrespecting the Brave Blossoms, making an impact against the Wallabies carries significantly more weight - especially when it’s done like Cokanasiga did it.

In many ways, it was impressive that his shining moments came after one he will want to forget. Coming off his wing for on a crash ball, the Fijian flyer ran straight into a brick wall in the shape of Adam Coleman that sent him flailing in the wrong direction. But to his credit, he kept coming and coming and eventually the rewards came his way.

His try was a display of brute strength by bouncing off Dane Haylett-Petty with a shuddering thud, although a lot of that was down to the Aussie wing getting his head on the wrong side, but it was the try that never was which told us a lot more about what the future holds for him.

Cokanasiga’s size and physicality is what makes him stand out, and getting his hulking 19-stone frame into orbit takes some doing. Yet the sight of him flying through the air, over the head of Bernard Foley to rampage towards the try line, brought Twickenham to its feet. It was only his decision-making that let him down and cost him a second try as he went full Jonah Lomu in attempting to truck over Haylett-Petty, who did an excellent job in stopping him and allowed Michael Hooper to get back in time to save the try.

“People are saying I should have passed it but I just backed myself to get there. I thought I was over,” Cokanasiga said afterwards, although with Henry Slade outside him and also plenty of space to run away from Haylett-Petty, he should have ensured he was over the line. But he will learn, as his coach knows.

“He’s just starting, mate,” enthused Jones. “He’s still got his training pants on. Wait until he gets proper pants. He’ll be able to play a bit. He’ll definitely get them. He’s going shopping now.”

As with everything that Jones says, there was humour in his words, but there was also intrigue; just how good could Cokanasiga be in nine months’ time?

The way that Cokanasiga brushed off Foley, sidestepped Jack Dempsey and sent Matt Toomua sprawling with ease before pounding towards the line echoed shades of the late Lomu destroying England time and time again. It cannot be quantified how much relief there was on Saturday that this time, it was a man in white who was tearing up Twickenham.

England are not exactly short on talent out wide, with Jonny May undoubtedly one of the best finishers in world rugby, while Chris Ashton, Jack Nowell and Anthony Watson were all watching on at home, sidelined through injury. They will no doubt have enjoyed what they saw, but for their own personal chances of getting back into the 14 shirt that Cokanasiga currently occupies, it will not have been easy viewing.

It’s almost a shame that after his first taste of international rugby, Cokanasiga now has to go back to the daily grind, but it would be fair to argue that the next two months will be of most importance to the young wing.

If Cokanasiga can go back to Bath and maintain this rich form, he will be impossible to leave out in Dublin when England open their Six Nations campaign against Ireland in a mouth-watering curtain-raiser. That championship also offers a solid run in the national team where he will can continue his incredible development, although while he has made the step up to international rugby look like a stroll in the park, he says it has been anything but.

“Definitely not. It’s definitely a step higher,” he added. “It’s quicker and I’m trying my best to adapt to it. I don’t feel relaxed out there but I’m confident in what I do and I just try to back myself.

“It’s something I’ve always dreamed of. It’s something I can’t really explain. I just love it and there will hopefully be more to come.

“I’d say it’s looking pretty good. We still have a lot of things to work on but it has given us a lot of confidence going into the Six Nations next year.”

Ten weeks is a long time in rugby - look how far England have come in the space of three weeks - but suddenly what should be a daunting trip to Dublin is now a fascinating encounter between the what is arguably the best team on the planet, following Ireland’s win over the All Blacks, and the side who want their Six Nations crown back. It can’t come soon enough.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 347 ========

DEONTAY WILDER ON THE PRECIPICE OF COMPLETING HIS LONELY JOURNEY THROUGH THE WILDERNESS OF AMERICAN BOXING

Deontay Wilder took care of unknown men in anonymous rooms during a desperate journey across the lost lands of boxing in America at the start of his career.

Wilder was an unwanted heavyweight, scratching away in a harsh landscape and in front of punters who had turned their back on the traditional saviours of the sport to become addicted to the slick packaging of the pay-per-view boys and their increasingly contrived fights.

Heavyweights were dead in America ten years ago when Wilder turned professional and even his bronze medal from the Beijing Olympics, a traditional trinket of value for an American, failed to save the boxer from the plastic hotels and tiny casinos where his fights competed with the midnight buffet and often lost.

Wilder kept on hitting men like Kelsey Arnold, a winner of just one of his five fights before Wilder ruined him in 73 seconds at the Desert Diamond Casino in Tucson. It was Wilder’s sixth win, his fifth in the first round and six weeks later he was back in the Diamond ring and this time he needed 90 seconds to blast Travis Allen, who slipped away into the desert night with 500 dollars to ease his suffering and his fifth loss in eight fights. Arnold dropped to nine defeats and just four wins before vanishing in 2011 and Allen never fought again.

This is a circuit unchanged since the Thirties, jammed with untraceable men.

“I’m not an overnight success,” said Wilder last week. “I’ve been working on this for ten years and they have been hard years. I’m now 40 and 0, with 39 knockouts.”

The one man that took Wilder the full distance, Bermane Stiverne, was dropped three times and stopped in the first round of a rematch last November in a fight that should have turned the stomach of anybody with an ounce of boxing dignity. Stiverne was in dreadful shape physically and entered the ring looking for the exit.

Next for Wilder it will be Tyson Fury at the Staples Centre in Los Angeles on December 1 in a fight only made possible because of the bravery of both boxers to take a risk. Wilder has more to lose, he has no escape clauses to deliver in defeat; Fury can always claim the opportunity came too soon, but that he had to grab it or lose relevance. It is a truly refreshing fight in a booming business where it is hard not to be cynical and ugly at some of the easily attained excess.

Wilder has now had eight WBC heavyweight championship fights and in modern terms he has beaten the right men, stopping and dropping and bruising and hurting the usual suspects without a single sign of mercy. Wilder likes beating people, insists he has the ability to hurt without feeling a thing.

“I can smile and take you out, I have that killer instinct,” he claims. “It’s never personal with me. I don’t have to get mad and in your face. I can just switch.”

He has certainly been ruthless in fights against static, exhausted heavyweights and he has also drifted against a few tough men with four of his defences going nine or more rounds, before the bludgeoning ends.

In his last fight, Wilder was caught, hurt and staggered by the Cuban Luis Ortiz in a gruelling slugfest. Wilder finished it in sickening style in round ten and was winning by just one point on all three of the scorecards, which should not be a shock as Ortiz had been avoided, was nearly 30 pounds heavier and was unbeaten in 28 fights. There is an argument that Wilder, in his 40th fight, finally had to fight. That, in my opinion, is a dangerous assumption.

In Los Angeles on December 1 it will be Fury’s turn to weave some magical moves, frustrate and test Wilder in a heavyweight fight that might just complete the evangelical work Wilder has been doing on his solo mission in the wilderness of American boxing during the last decade. Wilder also likes to preach from the other pulpit, his bible now worn from study.

The WBC’s belt is the official prize, the cash is the real bounty, but there is also recognition available to the winner for daring to agree to a fight that the sport needs in these glory days where too many men talk of billions, assume a regal attitude and flash their faces on neon signs that illuminate the streets. This is the heavyweight championship of the world, a place where men are mean and certainly not a popularity contest.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 348 ========

COPA LIBERTADORES: THE FINAL TO END ALL FINALS WENT TO EXTREMES IT JUST COULDN'T SUSTAIN

Eventually, Conmebol president Alejandro Dominguez came on air to definitively postpone the Copa Libertadores final second leg and describe the situation as “a disgrace” and “embarrassment”. But that doesn’t just apply to these two lamentable days for South American football. It also applies to the federation’s running of this fixture, and so much else.

Dominguez’s admittedly admirable media appearance at 2pm, and calls for “self-criticism” – from “everyone” – were the first moments of clarity in this entire affair. A SuperClasico built up as the “final to end all finals” did have ends of its own, limits it could not go past as the passion and raw emotion of it all became too much.

Everything was pushed too far – right down to the very staging of the game itself.

It’s hard not to think that the glamour of a fixture like this, on such a stage, became impossibly seductive for everyone, and thus clouded all logic. That applies to the very results that produced it.

There remains the argument that River Plate should never have been in the final in the first place, due to three transgressions in the semi-final against Gremio that would have seen them thrown out had Conmebol followed their own precedents. The federation instead put that to vote.

Such developments contributed to the crushing weight of tension that has arisen within Buenos Aires over the past week, culminating in the events of the past two days.

But that decision to vote on River Plate’s involvement in the competition was the first of many mis-steps in this affair.

The delaying of the first leg due to a deluge of rain now seems so quaint.

The sun was beaming down for the build up to the second leg, but only adding to the heat that saw River fans pelt the Boca bus with projectiles and create this mess, as well as inflict actual injuries – none more so on the reputation of South American football itself.

The organisation of it all, in short, looks a shambles. It has been a mess.

The question remains as to why the authorities took the Boca bus down Monroe Street, an area well known to be full of River fans on match-days.

Even then, once the attack happened, there was an argument that it was just another transgression River should have been thrown out of the competition for. There is of course a wider debate over whether clubs should be punished for the behaviour of fans outside their own stadium but – again – this is the general precedent in football.

The sight of a Boca player receiving the trophy on the River pitch without a match having been played might have been inadvisable, but was imaginable and perhaps deserved.

Instead – and according to both Carlos Tevez and Fernando Gago – the authorities pushed to get this glamorous match going ahead. Both specifically name-checked the “presidents of Conmebol and Fifa”.

There will be questions about the pressure applied in those four hours, especially when it seemed that the most natural response should be to postpone the game – and for much more than a day. Instead, after four different announcements of four different kick-off times on Saturday alone, Conmebol tried to get the match going a mere 24 hours after it was supposed to start.

This was despite the image of Boca captain Pablo Perez with a bandage over his eye, despite the footage of their players retching, and despite the highly understandable proposal from the club on Sunday morning that they were not in a position where any match could be played on a level playing field.

Conmebol still pressed ahead, still opened the doors of the Monumental at 1.25pm on Sunday to let fans in – only to very quickly let them down.

Dominguez had belatedly come to see clarity. He then spoke clearly, and strikingly, talking of how this occasion was ruined by “misfits”.

That is not really the case if you take into account the entire context of Argentine and South American football. Violence like this was entirely fitting with what has happened over the last few years, and should have been legislated for.

It instead displayed the lack of sufficient organisation, lack of sufficient planning.

So much for matching the Champions League, as Dominguez so wants to do. He has described Europe’s showpiece competition as “playstation football” but that at least means it runs according to programme. That we don’t see this. It’s impossible not to think Uefa would have stepped in much earlier, even allowing for the distinctiveness of this derby, and not allowed such a mess.

Conmebol will now meet with the chairmen of both River and Boca on Tuesday in Asuncion to decide the “date and time” of the rearranged fixture. There was no mention of a change of a venue, although this entire episode has been a vindication of Dominguez’s fair decision to make the finals one-off games in neutral venues.

It’s just that so much more needs to be done than that.

The final to end all finals went to extremes it just couldn’t sustain.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 349 ========

EDDIE JONES TURNS HIS ATTENTION TO IRELAND AFTER ENGLAND’S AUTUMN REVIVAL: ‘WE OWE THEM ONE’

It will be a week shy of six years since England’s last victory in Dublin when Eddie Jones leads his side into the Aviva Stadium in February, but he will do so with the painful memory of watching Ireland celebrate a Six Nations Grand Slam at Twickenham fuelling the desire to beat what is arguably the best team in the world.

England are no doubt rejuvenated from an autumn series that has seen them win three from four tests and lose to New Zealand by the matter of just one point, but Ireland remain the team to beat after an unblemished campaign that included their second win over the All Blacks in two years.

It is set-up to be a mouth-watering clash that, unusually, comes on the opening weekend of the championship as opposed to its usual billing late in the tournament. But that will not reduce what is at stake, with Jones turning his attentions towards Joe Schmidt and Ireland in what is very much a revenge mission.

“We owe them one,” Jones said after the 37-18 victory over Australia wrapped up England’s hit-and-miss 2018 with six wins and six losses.

“I’m not worried about winning the Six Nations, I’m worried about Ireland. We just need to keep getting better. We play them first up so it’s the most important game we’ve got coming forward.

“They’re the top team in Europe now. We want to be the top team in Europe. It’s pretty simple.”

It will be a belting start to the championship given that Wales travel to Paris and Scotland and Italy meet in Edinburgh, and with the World Cup to follow just six months after its conclusion, the importance of winning it cannot be over-exaggerated if any of the northern hemisphere heavyweights are to see their lofty expectations materialise in Japan.

The clash in Dublin also carries that little bit more weight given Ireland are very quickly becoming England’s bogey team. Sure, Scotland and France also beat them earlier this year, but it was Ireland who halted their winning run under Eddie Jones in March 2017 with a dominant display in Dublin, and it was Ireland who never really looked like losing when the two met on the final weekend of this year’s edition.

Since that encounter, Ireland have gone on to claim a first series victory in Australia and record impressive victories over New Zealand, Argentina, Italy and the United States – the latter two with a heavily rotated side – and the England squad are under know illusions of how tough their next match will be.

“It’s difficult,” said Jamie George after putting in arguably his best performance in an England shirt against Australia. “A huge amount of respect to them, in my eyes they’re the best team in the world at the moment so they’ve got a great playing group that’s well coached. We know that’s going to be a serious test in Dublin so we’re looking forward to it.

“I think we’ve got to emphasise that you can’t dip your toe into test matches, we saw that against Japan. That’s the thing we’ve learned some good lessons over the last four weeks and playing Ireland first up is just so exciting and something to really look forward to and something to build towards over the next couple of months.”

What could end up falling in England’s favour is that they will be a different side defensively on 2 February than they were on 17 March this year. Taking the autumn into account, England’s defence looks to be getting back to where it was in the first year under Jones and his original defence coach, Paul Gustard. But this year brought the surprise news that Gustard was leaving the international set-up in the summer to forge his own career as head of rugby at Harlequins, leaving the door open for Jones to bring in former New Zealand boss John Mitchell.

It appears to have paid off, with England conceding just one try apiece to the Springboks and All Blacks and two in the games with Japan and Australia, and with another training camp in Portugal planned at the end of January for Jones et al to tailor how they want England to defend, they may be able to find the solution to keeping Ireland at bay in a way that they were unable to do eight months ago.

“When you consider we’ve put in a new defence in the autumn – we had three training sessions to put it in and we’ve conceded six tries in four games,” Jones added. “That’s 1.5 (tries conceded) per game which is less than the Tier One Test average, so I’ve been very impressed with our defence and there’s more to come there. That will create more attacking opportunities for us.

“The reality is that Guzzy (Gustard) went to Harlequins and he maybe wishes he hadn’t gone now. I saw their win and loss record … I’m sure he’ll bounce back!

“We had to bring in a new defence coach and a new system. We had to change and changing, when you don’t get preparation time, is difficult. We’ve done that and it’s credit to Mitch (Mitchell) and the players – particularly Owen (Farrell) in that regard. Owen and Brad Shields are the leading players in defence and they’ve worked really hard to get that system right.”

But in leading that charge, Farrell has courted plenty of controversy. Just as the dust settled on his last-ditch shoulder charge on South Africa’s Andre Esterhuizen – a tackle that Australia coach Michael Cheika claimed was reviewed at a recent World Rugby referees’ meeting to demonstrate an unacceptable tackle – he landed himself in a fresh storm with a similar challenge on Izack Rodda when the Wallabies lock was on the verge of scoring a try

The incident, which was not referred to the television match official by Jaco Peyper much to Cheika’s fury, has once again cast doubt on whether Farrell crosses the line with his tackling technique too often, but Jones stood by his captain and he is now about to tell him to change his ways.

“The referee said it was good. When he says it’s not good, we’ll have a chat about it,” Jones said. “When you hit people hard, you place yourself at risk. And he hits people hard. I like people being hit hard.

“There’s a judgement area all the time in that. Obviously we want to be within the laws. Owen doesn’t try to tackle outside of the laws so he’ll keep on working on that.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 350 ========

MANU TUILAGI SAVOURS HIS ENGLAND RETURN IN FRONT OF HIS SEVEN-MONTH-OLD DAUGHTER AFTER ENDING HIS INJURY HELL

The 68th minute of England’s victory over Australia will be one that lives long in the memory of Manu Tuilagi, given that it ended his two-and-a-half-year injury nightmare in one single moment.

And what a moment it was.

“I just wanted to get on,” a beaming Tuilagi said after collecting his 27th England cap in the 37-18 victory over Australia on Saturday. “I was standing there and TT, our S&C guy, was like ‘keep warm, Eddie might say you are on at any time.’ So I was there for five minutes running up and down and I just wanted to get on and it was amazing, the atmosphere was unbelievable.

“It felt like it was my first cap. I was nervous, very nervous to get back out there. I didn’t know what it was like – I had forgotten what it was like, what the day is like, it has been a long time. But I loved it.”

The noise created by the 81,275 inside Twickenham to greet Tuilagi’s return to international rugby was just as loud, if not louder, than any of the four tries England scored on Saturday.

But there were a select few of those in attendance in particular that the 27-year-old cared most about, with his seven-month-old daughter Leilani joining the rest of his family in watching him pull on the red rose once again.

“It was very special. It was the first time my daughter has come to Twickenham and watched the England game. She is seven months, they were in the box and it was a bit loud for her outside but it is nice to see her.

“It was nice to be back, it has been a long time so I enjoyed every minute of it. The whole process, coming to the ground, on the bus, it is an amazing atmosphere. But the most important thing is that we got the win and just to be a part of that, a part of that good performance, that is what it is all about. The boys are happy.”

Unfortunately there is not another international next week. For Tuilagi, it is back to the daily grind, back to Leicester Tigers and back to his constant battle to remain fit enough to resurrect his England career.

But by all accounts, the England camp is a delighted one to have Tuilagi back in the fold.

“We know he can play Test rugby. He has finally got back on the field and he gives everyone a lot of confidence,” said head coach Eddie Jones. “You could hear the crowd when he came on – he’s like the local hero, isn’t he?

“I just think they (his teammates) like playing with him. He’s got something. He looks like a heavyweight boxer. He’s got a bit of footwork, he carries hard – players like playing with those sort of guys and they’ll go to the well for them.”

Jones has been the first one to stress that people should not get carried away with Tuilagi’s return, given the agonising run of injuries that he has endured. Constant setbacks due to shoulder, groin and knee injuries meant that he missed the bulk of the 2016/17 season, while large periods of 2017/18 were also spoiled by repeated knocks, niggles and surgeries.

So with 2019 on the horizon, there is one clear aim on Tuilagi’s radar, especially given that the threat of suffering yet another injury constantly plays on his mind.

“Stay fit,” he noted. “Obviously with the Premiership with Tigers, if all goes well, we’ve got the Premiership, Heineken Cup, Six Nations, World Cup. Our goal is to win through that and to do that you have to be fit and keep going with the game plan, what we’re doing at Tigers and what we do here.

“I was nervous throughout the whole thing, the team run. We had a massive session on Wednesday and that was the session that if I got through that, because it was contact and a fast game, if I got through that I would be all right for the game and thank God I got through it.

“We still had the team run (on Friday), we still had the warm up (Saturday) morning. All the stuff goes through your head.

“This group has been together a long time, probably longer than the one we had in 2011. It is very exciting. There are still young boys in this team to take that forward. Take the learning from this game. Even though we won, there are still a lot of lessons we can take from this, moving forward to the next time we come together.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 351 ========

LEWIS HAMILTON CRUISES TO VICTORY IN ABU DHABI TO END SEASON IN STYLE

Lewis Hamilton won the 73rd grand prix of his career to move within 18 of all-time leader Michael Schumacher, but the most exciting part of the 10th Abi Dhabi may have been the triple donut show that he, runner-up Sebastian Vettel and the retiring Fernando Alonso performed in front of the pits on the slowing down lap.

It looked as if Hamilton was in for a tough afternoon when, having led the first six laps, Mercedes took advantage of a virtual safety car deployment – after Kimi Raikkonen’s Ferrari rolled to a halt on the pit straight with a loss of power – to pit him for a set of fresh supersoft Pirelli tyres. Once again the world champion was faced with running longer than any of his rivals on the same set of tyres.

That dropped him to fifth place behind team-mate Valtteri Bottas, Vettel and the Red Bulls of Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen.

Hamilton briefly overtook the Dutchman on the eighth lap, but the Mexican GP winner soon repassed him on his softer compound tyres.

“Our engineers always say about stopping early but sometimes the tyres don’t last,” Hamilton said, “so I was wary. But once again they were calculating and correct and they did last all the way. But they didn’t feel very good early on when the fuel load was still quite high.”

That meant that he had to run a canny race, looking after his rubber rather than pushing hard.

“There are quite a lot of races where we are not able to push to the maximum because the tyres just overheat, but that’s been the name of game for quite some time,” he explained, and once again that was the case here.

Vettel pitted on lap 15, Bottas on 16 and Verstappen on 17, which promoted Ricciardo to the lead. The Australian, in his last race for Red Bull, then stayed in front, though some rain on the main straight on laps 24 to 27 enabled Hamilton, who by then had risen to second as his rivals pitted, cut a 6.9s gap on lap 23 down to 2.9s just before Ricciardo finally pitted on the 33rd.

Back in the lead, Hamilton then focused on conserving his older tyres, with Vettel pushing after Bottas. But the Finn was fading fast and the Ferrari blew past him on the 35th lap after Bottas locked up in Turn 5. Soon the second Mercedes had also been swallowed by Verstappen’s Red Bull, on lap 38, and then Ricciardo’s when Bottas pitted for a new set of ultrasoft tyres a lap after that.

Now the Red Bulls were the challengers and both drivers turned in some very quick laps as they began to put Vettel under pressure. Up front Hamilton went just fast enough to maintain a decent gap of around five seconds, but just as the quartet began to close up Verstappen started to lose pace as his tyres went off, and Ricciardo’s gallant recovery did not enable him to get closer than 2.2s by the finish.

In the end it was Vettel who put Hamilton under the most pressure, which was apposite given the intensity of their season-long battle. But 2.5s was more than sufficient for Hamilton to move within 18 victories of Schumacher as he took his 11th win of the season.

He started celebrating with donuts out on the track and was joined by Vettel. When they got to the main straight Alonso, who finished 11th, just outside the points after receiving three five-second penalties for deliberately leaving the track and gaining an advantage, made it a smoking threesome as he prepared to leave the F1 arena.

“I’m so happy right now,” Hamilton beamed, mercifully free of the over-attentive, camera-hogging Will Smith who had almost caused a drama being very late to leave the starting grid. “It’s been a real honour and privilege racing against Sebastian. I’ve known him since our F3 days and he’s an honest, hard-working racing driver and he’s raced his heart out. Never look at our shortcomings as anything other than us giving our best.

“As for Fernando, he’s a true legend and it was a privilege to race against him. Before I was able to do that I was always admiring what he achieved. I don’t usually miss other drivers but the sport will miss him, and I definitely will, too.”

Vettel was equally gracious as the pair of them celebrated a hard-fought season.

“He’s the champion and he deserves to be the champion,” he said of his arch-rival. “It’s been a tough year, and today I tried everything until the very last lap. I enjoyed catching him a little bit, but I think he always controlled the pace. It’s been a long year with a lot of races, so congrats to them. Our whole team will try to come back stronger give him a harder run next year.

“And well done, Fernando. The last years have been very tough for him, but we’ll miss him.”

Behind the top four, Bottas was a distant fifth ahead of Carlos Sainz in the surviving Renault. The Spaniards’ team-mate Nico Hulkenberg had provided the initial drama with a first-lap incident in which his Renault was flipped over after contact with Romain Grosjean’s Haas.

Fortunately, though his upturned car caught fire briefly and he was initially unable to extract himself because of the constraints of the halo safety device, the German was recovered by the marshals and eventually emerged shaken but unharmed.

Hamilton revealed that he had had an unconventional weekend, which included hanging out with Smith and filming with him up until 10 minutes before the start.

“Yesterday morning we were filming something with Fifa, and this morning some stuff with Will. He’s the original hypefest and brings a lot of energy. He’s like a big brother to me, and filming just before I got into the car completely changed my pattern, but I got a great start and after that it was really standard, expecting nothing but perfection. I always said that I wanted to finish the season in a high, so I’m very happy to have done that.”

On the podium he bared the tattoos on his back and pointed to one particular inked message as Vettel and Verstappen cooled him with a ‘champagne’ shower. It was the one that referred to Maya Angelou’s poem, Still I Rise.

All through the 2018, there was never any doubt of that.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 352 ========

VICTOR LINDELOF SHOWS MANCHESTER UNITED PLAYERS HAVE HEART, SAYS CRYSTAL PALACE MANAGER ROY HODGSON

Roy Hodgson believes Victor Lindelof’s decision to play through the pain barrier on Saturday said everything about the levels of commitment and desire within the Manchester United dressing room.

Hodgson’s Crystal Palace picked up a deserved point at Old Trafford this weekend, their first on that ground since 1989, though still failed to fully capitalise on yet another lacklustre United performance.

Jose Mourinho, the United manager, accused some of his players of lacking “heart” and “desire” in his post-match press conference, though hailed Lindelof as a “fantastic example” for playing on despite suffering an injury.

Hodgson was just as impressed with the Swedish defender’s dedication and, despite Mourinho’s complaints about “heart”, the Palace manager claimed Lindelof’s display hinted at deep reserves of commitment within the Old Trafford dressing room.

“If anyone doubts anything about Manchester United and commitment and desire, to see Lindelof, who had obviously injured himself, actually keeping pace with [Wilfried] Zaha and [Jordan] Ayew, that would tell you more,” Hodgson said.

“If I was a Man United man, that would be one of the most impressive things that happened in the game as far as I’m concerned.

“It would give me a lot of satisfaction knowing that not only are there good players here who can cause so many problems for opponents, you’ve even got that level of spirit and determination and guts when it comes down to it.

“He could quite easily have used the injury as an excuse, and Wilf and Jonathan who are very quick could have gone past him and maybe even won the game.”

The nature of Lindelof's injury is yet to be confirmed and Mourinho refused to speculate on whether the 24-year-old could be set for a spell on the sidelines.

The draw with Palace extended United’s difficult start to the season, which ranks as their worst since the 1990/91 campaign. And yet, Hodgson believes a trip to Old Trafford is as intimidating as ever.

“It’s just the same,” Hodgson said. “There are 75,000 people who are used to watching a very good team play with very good players, enormous strength in depth, bringing on [Alexis] Sanchez, [Marcus] Rashford and [Marouane] Fellaini.

“That tells you a lot, especially when people like [Romelu] Lukaku, [Juan] Mata and [Jesse] Lingard have started. They started what they thought was their best XI and then “brought those guys on.

“The atmosphere, the fact that so much has been done over the years here to make Manchester United what Manchester United are, no team is ever going to come here without a certain fear factor.

“You’ve got to be a very good team to come here and get something from them because not only have they got good players, they a) don’t give up and they b) run their socks off.”

Palace could not end their winless streak on Saturday, which now stretches to eight games in all competitions, though that record is mitigated somewhat by a recent run of difficult fixtures.

The south Londoners have faced four of last season’s top six in their last four Premier League games, whereas Burnley, Brighton West Ham and Leicester City await over the weeks to come.

Hodgson is hopeful that Palace’s long wait for three points will come to an end soon, though warned his players that they cannot assume their next four fixtures will be in any way easier than the last.

“We need points and we need results, and if they think it’s going to be easier in some way against Burnley, Cardiff, West Ham and Brighton, they are making a huge mistake and they will be told that in no uncertain terms,” he said. “I believe they will accept those words and act on them.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 353 ========

TEAM OF THE AUTUMN INTERNATIONALS: OWEN FARRELL AND GARRY RINGROSE STAR AS WORLD CUP IS BLOWN WIDE OPEN

The autumn internationals have come and gone and while there were wins for both the northern and southern hemisphere, there are as many as five team who will head to the Rugby World Cup with genuine belief that they can win the Webb Ellis Cup.

Not so long ago it seemed that New Zealand were the unrivalled favourites to claim a third straight world title, so much so that their own media were writing headlines that claimed “Just give us the World Cup now” more than a year out from the tournament.

But a defeat by Ireland and near-miss against England has seen the top of the tree bunch up considerably, and with South Africa and Wales both looking in good shape too, it is anyone’s guess who will come out on top next year in Japan.

Somewhat under the radar, Wales went four from four to stretch their winning run to nine tests while Ireland followed suit with their emphatic 16-9 win over New Zealand. England were not far off either, with three wins from four and a one-point defeat against New Zealand, while Scotland suffered an agonising defeat by the Springboks to join a loss against Wales and victories over Argentina and Fiji in what proved a mixed bag of an autumn campaign.

But here we focus on the players who did light up the autumn internationals as they take their place in our team of the campaign.

Click on the gallery above to see who makes the cut.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 354 ========

PIERRE-EMERICK AUBAMEYANG GOAL EDGES ARSENAL TO VICTORY AGAINST BRAVE BOURNEMOUTH

Has a 17 game unbeaten run, stretching back over three months, ever looked quite as wobbly as this?

After three consecutive Premier League draws, Arsenal finally returned to winning ways at the Vitality Stadium against Bournemouth, snatching all three points through Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in another thrilling game they did not always look to be in control of.

Question marks remain. Arsenal are yet to lead a Premier League match at half-time this season. Unai Emery’s bold decision to play a three-man defence ultimately succeeded, but hardly shored his team up at the back. And Arsenal only took the lead in the first place through an incredible volleyed own-goal by Jefferson Lerma, so fundamentally ridiculous it could yet single-handedly revive the lost tradition of the football blooper DVD.

The width of a post then denied Lerma from atoning for his earlier misfortune by scoring a last-gasp equaliser. Josh King, who hit Bournemouth’s equaliser mere seconds before the half-time whistle, also went close with a late free-kick, although Arsenal held out and in turn closed the gap on the top four. Chelsea sit just a solitary point ahead. Beat Spurs in the north London derby next weekend, and Arsenal could even go third.

What Arsenal supporter, at the start of the season, wouldn’t have taken that?

Emery’s decision to play a back three for just the second time this season hardly solved all of Arsenal’s defensive problems, but the fact that both of their goals originated down the left through the impressive Sead Kolasinac went some way to vindicating his decision, as well as justifying the always eye-catching exclusion of Mesut Ozil.

Emery was happy with his experimentation. “We played like that in pre-season and also against Qarabag, and we are still finding our best performance and combinations,” he explained afterwards. “The way that Kolasinac and [Alex] Iwobi connected was very interesting. We attacked well and it gave us another possibility, and the most important thing is it gave us good balance.”

It is to Emery’s credit that, this time, he persevered with the system. Arsenal’s sluggish performance in the first-half in Qarabag so frustrated him that he reverted back to a more familiar 4-2-3-1 at half-time. Here, his side grew into the game after weathering Bournemouth’s early storm.

The home side even had the ball in the back of the net within seven minutes. Exciting young talent David Brooks swapped passes with King before casually rolling the ball past Bernd Leno, but his celebrations were cut short by Ian Hussin’s offside flag. Numerous replays from just about every angle seemed to indicate the decision was an unfair one. Eddie Howe wasn’t impressed.

Things were then to get even worse for Bournemouth when Lerma had the misfortune to score one of the most bizarre own goals in memory.

Naturally, it was Torreira who won the ball, pouncing on a loose pass with the menace of a trapdoor spider before releasing Iwobi who immediately shuffled it out wide to Kolasinac on the overlap. His cross was a poor one, only for a slipping Lerma to smash his right boot through the ball, which flew past a rooted Nathan Ake and Asmir Begovic before they even had time to turn their heads.

If only it had happened 80 yards down the other end of the field, it would have been a goal-of-the-season contender. “We started the game brightly and had some very good moments but Arsenal came back into it,” Howe later bemoaned.

“The first goal was bizarre and I don’t think you will see something like that again. It was one of those games. He was inches away from being a hero at the end and that is football for you.”

But Bournemouth quickly hit back to preserve Arsenal’s impressively awful first-half record this season: Cardiff are the only other club not to have led at the interval in a Premier League match this season. As Arsenal pushed for a second they were hit by the counter-attack, with Callum Wilson taking advantage of their scrambled defence to feed Brooks, whose sumptuously weighted pass was well dispatched by King.

Unlike in Azerbaijan, Emery did not blink and Arsenal slowly began to gain a grip on the game in the second-half. Torreira again went close with yet another low, dipping long-range effort — this time deflected behind — and Aubameyang spurned a fine chance when he blazed over from just inside the box.

A few moments later and he made up for it. Iwobi ignored the easy pass and instead released Kolasinac storming into space down the left. His fizzed ball into the box proved far too hot to handle and there was Aubameyang, sliding ahead of Begovic to win the game.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 355 ========

COPA LIBERTADORES: BOCA JUNIORS AND RIVER PLATE TO MEET ON TUESDAY TO DECIDE DATE FOR POSTPONED SECOND LEG

Conmebol will meet on Tuesday with the chairmen of River Plate and Boca Juniors at their headquarters in Asuncion to decide when the postponed second leg of the Copa Libertadores final will take place, as federation president Alejandro Dominguez described the fans responsible for this “disgrace” as “misfits”.

The match was called off for the second time in 24 hours, when it became clear that Boca players were not in a sufficient condition to play and guarantee “sporting integrity” after the attack on their bus en route to the Monumental stadium on Saturday.

Dominguez said the entire situation called for self-reflection. The recently-installed Conmebol chief had initially ratified a decision for the game to go ahead, only for Boca to make a presentation to the continental body arguing the game should be played under equal conditions.

Captain Pablo Perez had suffered an eye injury in the attack, but Dominguez later said on television that another “four or five” players were injured, meaning they simply could not guarantee equal conditions or the spectacle “that everyone had come to see”.

The possible restaging of the final has been complicated by the fact the G20 meet in Buenos Aires on Thursday, not to mention the clubs’ domestic fixtures. It needs to be played before any South American champion travels to UAE for the Fifa Club World Cup on 10 December.

“The mentality at the moment is this is a disgrace that we’re talking about a situation like this, because of a few misfits, for what is a game of football,” Dominguez said. “I’m not going to take the focus of the events that have taken place, it’s a disgrace. The image that it has given the world, because of the fault of a few misfits, is wrong.

“This is not football. It’s not what any of us want. Football is the opposite. It is athletes, players, professionals, that live, work, give good examples on and off the pitch, that have families, responsibilities, and live the football that makes us all so passionate.

“Now, we have to analyse this from the perspective of what is sporting and fair. There is a team who have been injured, and we are here for the good of the spectacle, so that when the starting of XI of both clubs enter the field, they go without any excuse, that match is played on a level playing field, equal conditions.

“We believe in the spectacle, we believe in giving a good message, we believe of the need to give a signal that the organisation is putting up a great sporting spectacle, that it generates equality of conditions and thereby confidence, and that there is no excuse about the goal that makes the difference, so Conmebol have decided to that in these circumstances, there is not sporting equality, there are no guarantees of the spectacle that both teams have come to this place with all the sporting merits, because they’ve been better than all the teams played, they’ve reached the final because they’ve been superior to all the teams they’ve played.

“In these conditions, we want to guarantee that a sense of fair play is important to us, that football is important to us, we believe we have to give the conditions so that both clubs have the time to recuperate, and from that we postpone the game, and the presidents of both clubs are going to meet in the offices of Conmebol in Asuncion and decide the date and time of the second leg. And they’re going to play.

“The organisation is going to be self-critical, but everyone has to be self-critical. It’s not a situation where we can look elsewhere for faults. The intolerance, the violence, we cannot leave these aside and take the responsibility for. We have to be self-critical. I believe football is happiness, is passion, is family. That’s what we have to prioritise. And we will use the time to consider all of this and, when we play again, that the people go to enjoy a game of football.

“This is not the Argentina we love, we know, it’s not the majority. This is not Argentine society, these are misfits. We have to use this time to give a good sign to the world we can do things well.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 356 ========

AARON MOOY EARNS HUDDERSFIELD RARE AWAY VICTORY AGAINST WOLVES TO CLIMB OUT OF BOTTOM THREE

Huddersfield Town picked up their first away victory since February against a woeful Wolves, who were booed off at Molineux.

David Wagner's side climbed off the bottom of the Premier League to 14th and were hugely deserving of their first win on the road since February 24 as Aaron Mooy scored his first goals in 11 months.

It was their first three points in nine trips after Mooy struck on six and 74 minutes, for his first goals in 29 Premier League games.

This result made it seven points from nine as Huddersfield turned in a comprehensive performance against a disappointing Wolves.

Wolves have now gone five matches without a win and never looked like ending that run here in their worst performance of the season.

Huddersfield, with just two points from 15 on their travels this season, took a shock early lead. Mooy was left all alone to steer home a first-time shot from just outside the box after Wolves failed to cut out Erik Durm's cross from the left.

Wolves struggled to create chances against a determined Huddersfield side, for whom Mooy and Alex Pritchard were a threat.

Huddersfield showed their steel in the 17th minute when Tommy Smith earned a deserved booking for clattering Helder Costa. Terence Kongolo then saw two headers fly straight at Rui Patricio, the Wolves goalkeeper, from corners as the visitors looked strong at set-pieces.

The Terriers were winning the battle in midfield, where Ruben Neves and Joao Moutinho were being quickly hassled out of their stride by the visitors. Those two weren't the only ones who were guilty of losing possession though as Ivan Cavaleiro had a particularly uncomfortable first half for nervy Wolves.

Huddersfield went close to making it 2-0 in time added on when Mounie's goalbound header from a corner hit Doherty, before Wolves were booed off at half-time.

Nuno Espirito Santo, the Wolves head coach, made a double substitution at the break in a bid to drag his side back into the game. On came Morgan Gibbs-White, the midfielder, and Adam Traore, the £18m record signing, for Moutinho and Cavaleiro. But it made little difference as Huddersfield remained firm against little resistance initially.

Wolves went desperately close to equalising, from their first chance in the 56th minute. Traore wriggled to the byline and crossed to the far post where Raul Jimemez's downward header was cleared off the line by Philip Billing. Replays showed the ball was almost all over the line, maybe a grass blade's width away.

Mounie curled a shot narrowly wide for Huddersfield, but that chance was against the run of play as Wolves finally began to bite.

Jonathan Hogg, the Huddersfield midfielder, was booked for tripping Vinagre just outside the box and Neves hit the defensive wall from the resulting free kick.

Wolves went much closer on 66 minutes when Jimenez wasted a glorious chance after the grounded Kongolo left him onside and clean through from Doherty's pass. The on-loan Benfica forward could only stab across goal when he really should have shot earlier.

Huddersfield threatened on the break when Mounie teed up Alex Pritchard for a drilled effort which was smothered by Patricio. But the Terriers weren't finished and Mooy grabbed his and his team's second goal, when he curled home a 25-yard free kick 16 minutes from time.

Wolves will surely be asking questions about the goal as the ball drifted between Neves on the outside of the defensive wall and Costa just beyond it, while Patricio got a good hand on it before it squeezed just inside the near post.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 357 ========

FULHAM WINGER RYAN SESSEGNON HAILS CLAUDIO RANIERI’S INSTANT IMPACT ON AND OFF THE PITCH

Ryan Sessegnon was the last Fulham player to return from international duty last week and consequently the last one to meet Claudio Ranieri.

As has been proven already in his young career, though, the 18-year-old is a quick learner. On the pitch, he played with a clarity of vision against Southampton and a joy that has been largely absent during his maiden Premier League season.

Off it, he was able to grasp the nuances of the Ranieri touch as soon as he walked back into the club’s Motspur Park training ground on Thursday morning. Most of them centred on unity.

Sessegnon said: “Our body language today was down to everything that the gaffer’s done since he’s come in. He’s changed a lot of things in terms of we eat together and we leave together now.

“Before we used to just come up to the canteen and when you finished, you’d just go. Now you can’t leave until everyone’s finished. I think it’s about keeping that team bonding and everyone together.

“The warm-ups we do in training are all together, too. We have to follow each other in a line or in patterns. Little things like that help on the pitch.”

Anyone who witnessed Fulham mount comeback after comeback in the Championship last season will vouch for the unquenchable team spirit fostered by former manager Slavisa Jokanovic, but that was with a group of players who had grown together over two seasons.

Sessegnon added: “There are about 12 new players who have come in this season and it was hard for the old gaffer to gel everyone together.

“The team that got us promoted was a good team, but to gel that team with the new players straightaway was very difficult. Now the fact that we’re all eating together helps with that.

“The gaffer has told me just to be positive and go forward, don’t play back too many times. He sees me as someone attacking in the final third of the pitch and hurting teams. I tried to do that today.”

Sessegnon’s vision set up Fulham’s second goal for Andre Schurrle after Aleksandar Mitrovic had cancelled out Stuart Armstrong’s opener for Southampton in a first half full of attacking intent and defensive lapses.

It was Armstrong’s turn to equalise for the visitors in the second period, before Sessegnon’s flicked header was volleyed home by Mitrovic for the winning goal.

While Southampton manager Mark Hughes was left bemoaning his side’s inability to turn dominance into goals and possession into points, as well as fending off questions about the open revolt towards him among the Southampton fans, Ranieri enjoyed only positive thoughts.

Many of those centred on Sessegnon and the talent within which the Italian hopes to unleash.

Ranieri said: “Ryan is one of the best young players that I’ve met. He must be exuberant, he must be strong but I saw for the first that he is very intelligent. He could improve a lot, but slowly, slowly. He’s young, a child. It’s not easy for him, but I’m very happy and pleased with his performance.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 358 ========

ENGLAND'S WOMEN WERE 'COMPLETELY OUTPLAYED' IN T20 WORLD CUP FINAL DEFEAT, ADMITS CAPTAIN HEATHER KNIGHT

A disappointed Heather Knight admitted England were “completely outplayed” as her team were swept aside by Australia in the final of the World Twenty20 in Antigua.

“We're really disappointed,” she said. “We know we didn't bring our best game.”

In a one-sided encounter, Australia chased down England’s 105 for the loss of just 2 wickets - Player of the Match Ashleigh Gardner finishing 33 not out at the end.

Batting first, England started brightly enough, with opener Danni Wyatt hitting Sophie Molineux for a four and a huge six in the first over. But Wyatt was soon riding her luck - dropped at backward point in the second over and then again behind the stumps in the third.

Tammy Beaumont and Amy Jones both went cheaply; but perhaps the major turning point was the dismissal of Nat Sciver, who looked to be on the wrong end of a very harsh decision as an LBW call was upheld on review, despite the Ultra-Edge technology clearly suggesting a noise as the ball passed the bat.

Wyatt was then dropped again in the eighth over, but her luck, which also included a couple of boundaries helped over the ropes by Australian fielders, eventually ran out on 43 - caught on the ring by Australian captain Meg Lanning.

Two wickets in two balls from Australia’s young leg-spinner Georgia Wareham sealed England’s fate, with Lauren Winfield given out LBW, and Sophia Dunkley bowled by a lovely delivery which lifted and turned back in past her bat to hit leg stump.

Heather Knight (25) offered some resistance, but as the tail collapsed around her England slumped to 105 all out in the final over.

“We didn't have enough points on the board,” reflected Knight afterwards; and so it proved.

Australia’s chase got going quickly, as Alyssa Healy - who was later named Player of the Tournament - hit three boundaries off Anya Shrubsole’s first over.

However, for once Healy could not push on - bowled for 22 by a beauty from Sophie Ecclestone that turned right around her bat, and when Beth Mooney edged Danni Hazell behind for 14, there was perhaps a chink of light for England.

If so, it was soon extinguished by Meg Lanning and Ashleigh Gardner. With Australia needing 62 from 77 balls, all they needed to do was play sensibly, which Lanning did whilst still scoring at all-but a run a ball, putting England’s poor showing with the bat into perspective.

At the other end, Gardner started slowly and was 5 off 13 balls at one stage, before belting a series of sixes as Australia began to cruise home, whilst England were reduced to complaining about the state of the ball as it soaked-up the evening dew, The umpires changed the ball; but it didn’t make a difference, as Australia reached their target with 29 deliveries to spare.

In retrospect an Australian win was always on the cards in this tournament - they are better paid and better resourced than arguably any other women’s sports team in history. But England coach Mark Robinson wasn’t making excuses.

“Resources don't win games of cricket,” insisted Robinson, “players do. You can have all the money and all the systems in the world, but it's players that win matches; and Australia were worthy winners tonight.”

Meanwhile Knight found some bright notes, despite her disappointment.

“I'm definitely proud of how the girls performed - proud that we made it to another final.”

“We came in with a very inexperienced side and some of those players that came in, like Sophia Dunkley and Kirstie Gordon, have stepped up and performed outstandingly - that's a real positive for us to take forward.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 359 ========

ENGLAND JUST SIX WICKETS AWAY FROM MEMORABLE WHITEWASH OF SRI LANKA

England were on the brink of a memorable overseas whitewash in Sri Lanka, ending day three of the third and final Test in complete control in Colombo.

Following victories in Galle and Kandy, Joe Root's side have two full days to finish off their beleaguered hosts who will resume on 52 for four chasing a ground record 327.

Jos Buttler became the latest member of the touring team to weigh in with a crucial contribution, arriving at the crease on 39 for four and playing against type for a mature 64 - his best knock of the series - to usher England to a healthy 230 all out.

Buttler's 89-run stand with Ben Stokes (42) was the turning point of an innings that had threatened to enter tailspin, with Lakshan Sandakan playing the role of enabler with two grievous self-inflicted wounds. The left-arm wrist-spinner twice had Stokes caught - at cover on 22, at slip on 32 - only for replays to show he had overstepped the no-ball line on each occasion.

England were afforded 17 overs to make inroads into Sri Lanka's batting lineup and rammed home their advantage with zeal. Moeen Ali, on new-ball duty, accounted for both openers as Danushka Gunathilaka nicked a sharp off-break to slip and Dimuth Karunaratne exposed his off stump with a loose shot.

Jack Leach had Dhananjaya De Silva lbw on a smart review and Stokes landed one more before stumps, goading Angelo Mathews into a brainless pull to midwicket.

England began the day 99 ahead but quickly managed to turn a hard-won position of strength into a flimsy top-order procession.

Keaton Jennings succumbed lbw to the first ball of the day, Dilruwan Perera coaxing a wicket-to-wicket delivery into the front pad, before picking off Rory Burns in identikit fashion.

The duo have had moments of success in the first series of the post-Alastair Cook era but ended on a low here and will look forward to resuming their union away from the exaggerated spin of Sri Lanka.

Perera's probing saw him pick up first-innings centurion Jonny Bairstow next, with Kaushal Silva on hand to hold a firm chance at short-leg, and when Root fed a leading edge back to Malinda Pushpakumara just nine balls later England were wobbling badly.

Stokes and Buttler combined to nudge the scales back in the opposite direction, adding 71 before lunch and 18 more afterwards. There was much to be impressed by in their work, with big swings of the bat shelved for more conservative strokes and Buttler consistently leaving his crease to knock the bowlers off their lengths. When that ploy worked best they cashed in, milking 20 runs from two ragged Sandakan overs.

Yet their stand still hinged on several instances of good fortune, Sandakan's wandering front foot giving a disbelieving Stokes second and third lives. Buttler was much more controlled but still had to overturn a tight lbw verdict, rapping the knee roll in front of middle but apparently skipping over.

He might also have fallen to the first ball after lunch, when a thin edge down leg side failed to stick in Niroshan Dickwella's gloves. Stokes' luck eventually expired when he failed to clear long-on off the probing Perera but Buttler continued to nudge, push and steer his way to a busy half-century.

Buttler's willingness to advance eventually cost him, stumped as Sandakan dragged one down leg, but it had also enabled him to find consistent scoring shots throughout his innings despite just three boundaries.

Buttler's departure left England 264 ahead with four more wickets and Sri Lanka eyeing a swift clean up job. Stuart Broad obliged by lasting just five balls but the resistance continued elsewhere, Moeen and Adil Rashid adding 22 and 24 respectively - valuable lower-order runs at the business end of a match.

Ben Foakes ended unbeaten on 36 not out, bringing his average to 69.25 in a standout maiden series, with three referrals all going against the hosts before Leach's nick completed Perera's five-for.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 360 ========

CAN SPORT HEAL THE WOUNDS OF WAR?

Sometimes on your travels, there are conversations that really stick with you. In Sri Lanka, having witnessed the first Test series win for an England cricket team on this island in 17 years, it was one of my final conversations with a local that I simply couldn’t shake.

When travelling for work I make a habit of talking to taxi drivers, hoteliers, anyone local really. Individuals seem to appreciate you taking an interest in their country and while the views you hear tend to vary wildly across a broad scale, when you gather them all together at the end you begin to build a picture of what people (in this case Sri Lankans) feel about their country. Arriving for the beginning of a Test series on this beautiful island, a teardrop falling from the Asian subcontinent and into the Indian Ocean, you wouldn’t have known that the headlines internationally were of a political crisis.

“If we take it out to the streets, there will be a huge bloodbath,” warned the speaker of the house after president Maithripala Sirisena ousted prime minister Ranil Wickremesinghe​ – in a move later deemed unconstitutional – and installed his predecessor Mahinda Rajapaksa. What followed over the coming weeks was political manoeuvring, claim and counterclaim. Wickremesinghe refused to leave the prime ministerial residence of Temple Trees, a colonial-era building once owned by the head of the Cinnamon Department of Ceylon but which was now harbouring a political leader at the centre of a storm.

Sirisena had formerly been a running mate of Rajapaksa, only to turn his back on him ahead of the 2015 election, and now he was metaphorically back in bed with his former ally-turned-foe. They searched for the votes to try to oust Wickremesinghe through parliamentary means – but when they couldn’t get them, the president simply dissolved the house.

By now, you’ve probably seen the video of Sri Lankan politicians fighting in parliament. The unsavoury scenes shamed a nation of humble people. So back to that conversation, then. Or the start of it, for now.

“We have had the bad politicians all of my life,” said Manoj, in this instance driving me to the airport amid the sort of electrical storm that has you looking at your boarding pass and quivering at the thought of air travel. “We just have to carry on as normal.”

* * *

Following the victory at Pallekele Stadium last Sunday that sealed the series, England returned to Colombo on Monday and to the lavish surroundings of the Shangri-La Hotel in the upmarket Galle Face neighbourhood of the capital. The establishment opened only last November and the players are fairly unanimous in saying it might be the nicest resort they have stayed in on any tour. But last time England’s cricket team won a Test series here, in place of the pristine lawns and infinity pools of the present were barbed wire and tanks.

Sri Lanka is not yet a decade removed from the end of its brutal civil war. The scars of that conflict pervade every facet of public life – even on the eve of the series, when the country’s still-ongoing political crisis was sparked by Rajapaksa’s return.

Rajapaksa was a typical strongman leader. It is clear when you talk to Sri Lankans that he still commands respect for presiding over the end of the island’s civil conflict. There are, however, serious allegations that government forces, over whom his brother held command at the time, committed war crimes and the murder of approximately 40,000 Tamils during the dying embers of the war. The government has always denied the claims.

“He is a strong leader, good leader,” Sarath, a hotel owner from Kandy tells me. “He ended the war and he did many good things. We liked Wickremesinghe’s ideas, but his promises did not come true.”

The idea of a “strongman” leader is a dominant global theme of our times and indeed it seems very popular in Asian politics and particularly here on the subcontinent. There is a feeling implied in conversations with locals, sometimes even expressed outright, that they would tolerate the corruption and concentration of power in ever-smaller circles if a political leader can get things done. That certainly appears to be the prevalent view of Rajapaksa, and it is an image he attempts to reinforce at every opportunity.

Part of the trouble for the present government, which President Sirisena publicly claimed he was looking to resolve, relates to a controversial sale of bonds by the central bank, which is understood to have cost the nation in excess of $65m (£50m).

“Wickremesinghe was good but there was a big bank robbery,” says Kumar, a restaurateur in Galle, in reference to the bonds scandal. “He is the man of the west and Rajapaksa is of China.”

That divide is significant. It is impossible to drive around Colombo without noticing the amount of infrastructure projects that proudly boast of being driven by foreign capital. China, in particular, has looked to assert itself in subcontinental Asia by building docks and highways in Pakistan and Bangladesh, and it is heavily involved in Sri Lanka too. Concerns over Rajapaksa’s links to China, and the debts he was racking up, persist; but while America progressively isolates itself further from the world, China’s influence continues to grow.

Driving south from Colombo to Galle for the first Test, the political uncertainty was starting to tank the rupee. The influx of thousands of English tourists flocking to the country, and particularly the resort of Galle, were a welcome boost to a tourist industry beginning to be hit by cancellations as news of the political situation spread around the globe just ahead of peak season.

Galle is the perfect venue for a Test match, with a bounty of hotels stretched around the island’s southern coastline and a historic fort looming over the country’s most picturesque cricket ground. This particular match was to be a celebration of Sri Lankan cricket, with Rangana Herath taking the unusual step of playing only in the first Test of the three-match series before retiring. The request had been made so he could begin and end his career on the ground where he took over 100 Test wickets.

The 40-year-old retired from cricket as the most prolific left-arm bowler of all time, and his departure actually told us a lot about the state of Sri Lankan cricket in the present.

After a Test where England dominated virtually the entire match after a wobbly first session, Herath was gone and what he left behind was a Sri Lankan team with virtually no recognisable names to the average international fan. The stars, if Herath himself was still one, have gone now.

For the first time in at least two decades, Sri Lanka doesn’t boast any Test player you could safely describe as being in the best 10 players at their role. Muttiah Muralitharan, Lasith Malinga, Chaminda Vaas, Kumar Sangakkara, Mahela Jayawardene... this has been a nation of standout players and the list goes on but the bloodline doesn’t. Not for now, at least.

* * *

Before the series had even begun, tumult had already struck the Sri Lankan camp. Promising seam bowler Lahiru Kumara, who had been the hosts’ best player during the warmups in Colombo, had been expelled from the squad for breaking a curfew. During the series they would lose spinner Akila Dananjaya, reported for bowling with a suspect action, as well as captain Dinesh Chandimal, who picked up an injury in the first Test.

Off the field, the world of Sri Lankan cricket wasn’t in much better shape. Former captain, opening batsman, World Cup winner and chairman of selectors Sanath Jayasuriya was charged by the ICC with match-fixing offences as the tour began.

Jayasuriya is alleged to have broken the International Cricket Council’s anti-corruption code after a long investigation into match-fixing. The former opening batsman is accused of “failure or refusal to cooperate” with the ICC investigation as well as “concealing, tampering with or destroying documentation”.

Jayasuriya, who denies match-fixing, has also dabbled in politics. Indeed, the world of cricket governance, in a country as mad about the sport as this, and the corridors of governmental power seem curiously, excessively intertwined.

As if to prove the point, as the crisis triggered by Sirisena flared, another former Sri Lankan captain and World Cup winner Arjuna Ranatunga was arrested in connection with an incident in which his bodyguard shot and killed a protester. He was subsequently released on bail, and explained that his security detail had been acting to defend him from a mob.

Ranatunga – once a humble cricketer – had just been dismissed as oil minister when President Sirisena sacked the entire cabinet. To add to the turmoil within the Sri Lankan cricket board, bowling coach Nuwan Zoysa was charged by the ICC with three counts of anti-corruption breaches including “fixing or contriving” aspects of an international match.

The team’s general manager Charith Senanayake then resigned between the first and second Test matches after falling out with head coach Chandika Hathurusingha. When it rains in Sri Lankan cricket, it pours. And owing to the sheer number of international matches to fit into the annual programme these days, this series had been scheduled in monsoon season.

* * *

If England’s win in the first Test at Galle was pretty simple, the victory at Pallekele Stadium, on the outskirts of Kandy, was a tense humdinger. Playing three spinners and a flexible batting attack, Joe Root’s new-look side went into the fifth day of the Test needing three wickets to win. Sri Lanka needed just 75 runs.

What had promised to be a wild crescendo after four days of brilliant play would eventually unfold in far simpler fashion. Moeen Ali took two quick wickets before Jack Leach cleared up the tail by taking out Malinda Pushpakumara with a simple caught and bowled chance.

England were victorious and Sri Lanka a little bereft. They had been outplayed for eight of the nine days of Test cricket England had needed to secure the series and had rarely looked like having the discipline or talent to fight back against what is now the world’s second-best team in Tests. While the tourists’ usual travel sickness meant this was a significant result for Root and his team – having not won overseas in nearly three years, on the subcontinent for six or in Sri Lanka for 17 – it was also a humbling defeat for the hosts.

Sri Lanka had beaten Australia, South Africa and the West Indies by a combined score of 7-0 at home in the past three years. This latest series should have been a contest but rarely looked like it. Amid the backdrop of all that political turmoil (in parliament and around the team), bereft of the star names that have punctuated their squad lists for decades, there was little to be optimistic about.

* * *

And so back to the rain-soaked highway en route to the airport. As the looming, steel grey sky periodically flashed with lightning and the rain began to form streams on the road, cars turned their hazard lights on. Owing to the capital city’s horrendous traffic and some poor timing on my part, the journey out of Colombo had taken more than an hour already and conversation with Manoj had got rather deeper than expected.

The politicians are no good, but if we win in Colombo I’ll be happy

We talked about the political crisis; he told me about his brother who had been shot in 1989 by the army for being in the wrong place at the right time – he was in his twenties. Manoj told me about his son, who died 18 months ago, aged 11, from dengue fever. The hospitals, he said, simply can’t cope. Manoj asked me what it was like to go on a plane. “I have never flown,” he said. “I have never left Sri Lanka.”

While covering the Test series, and reading about and talking to people about the political crisis, it had occurred to me that the island has parallel tracks: there is the elite, those wrestling for power and influence in white-washed colonial buildings; and then there are those normal Sri Lankans whose everyday existence is being affected by the tanking rupee, tourists cancelling their visits and the central bank having a substantial financial hole that nobody can explain.

Manoj was happy to talk about the politics and explain things, but after we had come to the glum conclusion of nobody knowing what would happen next, he said something which surprised me. “The politicians are no good, but if we win in Colombo I will be happy.”

It wasn’t a moment that demonstrated the power of cricket, particularly, but perhaps the escapism of sport. In Sri Lanka, there is only one sport that matters and even in a dead rubber of a series long lost, there were people looking for a small victory to bring some cheer. “My son loved cricket,” he added. “I would have taken him to this match.”

There is not much you can say in response to that. A sadness that lingers long in the memory. When cricket suddenly seems to mean very little, yet to some it would mean the world.

====== 361 ========

BUNKER MENTALITY: HOW DARLINGTON’S FINEST TOOK CHINESE GOLF BY STORM

In July 2016, Callum Tarren was running down a sodden hillside away from the North Korean border. After a series of flights cancelled by the Chinese military, sleepless nights on airport floors, and unsteady beds in bug-riven hotels, now he was hurtling away from Heaven Lake before the monsoon could sweep in.

It was Tarren’s sixth event in seven weeks. His 8,300th kilometre travelled in 53 days since exchanging odd-jobbing around Yorkshire for a one-way ticket and train-hopping around China’s 23 provinces in pursuit of one day winning a position on the PGA Tour.

The long-haul trip from Darlington to Kunming had eaten up all of the 28-year-old’s savings, and he was already relying on handouts from family and friends to find accommodation and food before his first season on the China Tour – a subsidiary of the premier PGA and European circuits – began.

But there in the shadows of Jilin’s snow-capped mountains, which shield the border’s outpost turrets from view, Tarren tied for 40th place at the Ping An Private Bank Wanda Open. He earned himself a small sliver of the $193,500 prize purse which would set him up for three years as England’s most nomadic golfer, travelling between Shanghai and Central America via County Durham.

“It was a big risk,” he says. ”I don’t come from a rich family and I didn’t have much in my bank. Even if I qualified I didn’t know if I was going to be able to afford to play. You have tough times along the way. You’re spending all this money on flights, accommodation and you think what am I doing? I’m actually paying to go to work. I know guys whose credit cards are maxed at £20,000 minus.

“There’s times where you had to stay in not very nice places. Where there’s bugs and things running around. Where it’s very unclean, showers leaking and spraying all over, beds are very uncomfortable and you wake up with bites all over you. I’ve slept on airport floors. That’s just part of the parcel.”

Flights get cancelled for no reason, sometimes they say it’s because of the military, other times it’s mixed weather, thunderstorms. It’s not ideal.

Tarren and Michael Skelton were the first English golfers to play on the China Tour. “Living in each other’s pockets,” they shared flights, trains, buses, hotel rooms, even beds in crummy hotels to halve costs.

Seen as an easier route to golf’s lucrative tours, many Americans and Australasians attempted stints in China, seeing it as a soft touch. But after finding themselves stranded in small airports attempting to negotiate the “brick wall” of rearranging a flight which has inexplicably disappeared from the departures list and playing games of Guess Who while eating from menus with only pictures of barely-discernible rice bowls, the majority found they couldn’t cope.

“Back in 2016, there was only two of us” Tarren says. ”You get a lot of golfers who go ‘Oh I’m going to do that China Tour’ but when it comes down to it, they don’t like getting too far out of their comfort zone and people shy away.

“It’s a different culture, it’s a different way of life. The food’s obviously very different, flights get cancelled for no reason, sometimes they say it’s because of the military, other times it’s mixed weather, thunderstorms. It’s not ideal. I wouldn’t say I enjoy being on fifteen-hour flights and travelling for days at a time.

“The events are all over China, all over the place. We’re out in the sticks, in the middle of nowhere next to a power station and then there’s this awesome golf course. These huge clubhouses with spas in the changing rooms and hotel rooms. They’re like resorts with houses built alongside them but they’re usually empty. They’re like empty cities next to the rural villages. [The villages] are just poverty. It’s crazy.”

Tarren didn’t win an event in his first year in China, but his consistent finishes saw him climb to eighth in the Order of Merit, easing away his nagging financial insecurities. There was more time to sightsee, to seek out westernised restaurants, and the results earned Tarren partial entry onto the Latinoamérica Tour – another PGA-run lower-level tour which skips between country clubs in Central and South America.

So Tarren traded the smog of Shanghai for swashbuckling in the sands of the Caribbean in the spring of 2017, arriving in Guatemala en route to La Reunion Golf Resort at the base of Volcan de Fuego. “It was paradise,” he says, reminiscing about scaling the volcano and peeping at its crater which spat specs of lava and plumes of smoke.

“It was an amazing resort, but it’s not even there anymore. The volcano erupted, it killed hundreds of people and completely flattened the whole resort. To think we climbed that volcano. That’s quite crazy.”

Tarren only played 18 holes that week. The tournament was cut short by Guatemala’s gale force winds so he decided to make the short trip to San Pedro Sula in neighbouring northwestern Honduras – the world’s most dangerous city outside of war zones, where morticians work 24 hours a day.

“I didn’t know what to expect in Honduras,” Tarren says. “I got told that before we went [that San Pedro Sula was really dangerous], but I didn’t see anything that made be like ‘Oh God’. But the Latinoamérica goes to some dangerous places in South America: Colombia, Panama, Peru. Like China, there’s some very poor places.

“We heard stories from the year before when the guys were travelling from the airport on the bus in Honduras, they got stopped by two young kids holding AK-47s and demanded $5 off every person on the bus…I’d have given them $10.”

It’s a way of life. And I’d recommend it to everyone.

So Tarren returned to China for a second season imagining it might even seem comparatively serene, only to find that President Xi had launched a vendetta against golf and was closing hundreds of country clubs causing organisers to scramble to place events before fairways were butchered and bulldozed – such as was the fate met by the vantage point overlooking North Korea which had kept Tarren afloat.

In the 2017 season, Tarren climbed five places to third in the Order of Merit and won his first title. Had the China Series’ deal with the PGA not ended the previous year, Tarren would have won a coveted place on the United States’ lucrative Web.com Tour, which developing players use as a springboard for the main PGA competition in America. Instead, he returned east for another year.

“If I hadn’t performed how I had, would I have gone back to China every year?” he asks rhetorically. “No, probably not. But I knew what it had to offer so I thought I might as well continue down that avenue.”

The China Tour was realigned with the PGA for the 2018 season and Tarren went into the final event of this year’s season last month knowing a win would finally secure him his overdue ticket to the US.

Trailing on Sunday at Clearwater Bay in Hong Kong, Tarren shot an 8-under par 62 – one shy of the course record – yet having walked off the 18th green with a second-place finish and believing another year had passed him by, Tarren was told that the only man ahead of him in the Order of Merit standings had bogeyed the 18th hole, meaning he clinched first spot and a place on the Web.com Tour.

“Someone came over to me and said you’ve pipped him. I said what do you mean and he told me I’d won the Order of Merit. I didn’t even understand what had happened. I was overwhelmed. Everyone had to explain it to me.”

Tarren was swiftly robed in a red velvet winner’s jacket and received an assortment of glass and temple-shaped trophies and placards. It was the first time his long-term girlfriend, who had stayed with him through all the painstaking long-distance phone calls, had been able to watch him at a tournament in China in person. The outcome means she probably won’t have to do so again.

Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy had both played on the main PGA Tour while they were still teenagers. Now, Darlington’s 28-year-old wayfarer enters this season knowing a win could see him playing alongside them.

“It’s a way of life,” he says of the years spent in the Far East. “And I’d recommend it to everyone.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 362 ========

TENNIS IS ON FIRE, FATALLY DIVIDED AND WITHOUT AN ANSWER TO THE QUESTION: WHAT DOES ITS FUTURE LOOK LIKE?

It all began, the story goes, in the century before last: an age of enterprise and empire, when rich men with big dreams could conquer continents and turn the potter’s wheel of history. For the businessman Dwight Davis and his three friends on the Harvard University tennis team in 1899, however, the vision was a little more modest: a transatlantic men’s tennis challenge between the United States and the British Isles. And more than a century after the sterling silver punchbowl that would be known as the Davis Cup was first lifted at the Longwood Cricket Club in Boston, that vision of cordiality and friendship, of shared endeavour in a fiercely individual pursuit, still endures.

Well, just about. For if the bell-tolling and obsequies are anything to go by, it will all come to an end this weekend in Lille. The Davis Cup final between France and Croatia is the last in its current incarnation, and though its name will live on, the essential character of the event will be so drastically altered as to constitute virtually a new tournament. From 2019, the whole thing will pretty much be done in a week: 18 teams in six groups, in one venue, in one city, in late November.

Its organisers are promoting it as a “World Cup of men’s tennis”, breathing life into a tired and ailing format and offering a spectacular climax to the season. Its detractors lament yet another submission of gilded tradition to big money, as well as an unwanted extension to a calendar that already feels bloated to the point of exploitation. Both, in their way, have a point. Either way, it feels like a liminal moment for a sport whose uneasy truces are fast disintegrating into a whirlwind of rancour and rapacity, whose very fundamentals are being renegotiated before our eyes.

As ever with these giant rebranding exercises, there’s a billionaire at the helm: Hiroshi Mikitani, chief executive of Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, best known in Europe as the shirt sponsors of Barcelona. That also helps to explain the involvement of the footballer Gerard Pique, a close friend of Mikitani, whose investment group Kosmos has essentially bought the Davis Cup from the International Tennis Federation in exchange for a guaranteed return of £2.3bn over the next 25 years.

The repercussions of that decision – narrowly voted through at the ITF’s annual meeting in Florida in August – are continuing to be felt. Many felt alienated by Kosmos’s heavy-handed lobbying tactics. The votes themselves remain shrouded in mystery, along with any blandishments that were proffered in order to secure them. As the head of the German federation observed: “Sadly, the discussion in the last few days was mainly about money and not about the sport.” Roger Federer, whose own Laver Cup competition between Europe and the Rest of the World could be under threat from a revamped Davis Cup, angrily accused Pique of “meddling in the tennis business”.

Meanwhile the ATP, which runs the main men’s tour, have – in what you have to say is a spectacularly male move – decided to organise its own rival team competition starting in January 2020, just a few weeks after the revamped Davis Cup. Many of the finer details are far too arcane to bore you with here, but at the root of this tangled web of closet allegiances, naked self-interest and bureaucratic diarrhoea lies, in essence, a sport on fire. Not since the early days of the Open Era in the 1970s, the age of boycotts and rival tours, has men’s tennis felt more fatally divided.

The national federations are divided: most voted through the new changes, but a significant number (including Germany, Australia and Britain) did not. Some federations are even feuding with their own players, notably the French, who voted in favour despite most of their players being against. The players are feuding with the ATP. The ATP is feuding with the ITF. Federer fans and Djokovic fans and Nadal fans are merrily kicking six shades out of each other on the internet. A simmering current of anger and distrust seems to underpin the sport’s every transaction these days, and at the heart of it all is the one question upon which no two people can quite seem to agree: what should the future of tennis look like?

For most of the last 15 years, it’s a question nobody needed to answer. The golden era ushered in by the Big Four of men’s tennis created an illusion of concord, of a sport in perfect harmony, masking an archaic organisational apparatus that was never built for the furious trade winds of modern sport. How is it possible, for example, that no dedicated players’ union exists? How is it possible that the world’s 250th best player (Hungary’s Mate Valkusz, 2018 prize money: £23,000) can barely make ends meet? How is it possible that 45 years after the US Open offered equal prize money, the men and women still operate separate tours run by separate governing bodies and occasionally even separate rules? While Federer and Nadal were making us swoon, nobody cared.

But the dusk of the Big Four era, coupled with the realisation that the same audiences who flocked to Djokovic v Murray aren’t necessarily going to go gooey for, say, Karen Khachanov v Stefanos Tsitsipas, has forced administrators into action. According to ATP president Chris Kermode, the average viewer of tennis on television is in their 60s. Recent years have seen all sorts of fancy innovations tried out: the Laver Cup, Tiebreak Tens, shot clocks, the funky Next Gen competition with no tramlines, no lets, no advantage points, no line judges, and four-game sets. An optimist would describe it as the ultimate blank canvas. A pessimist would describe it as the desperate mayhem of a sport willing to torch its very essence in a forlorn attempt to look relevant.

And so the Davis Cup debate is really a proxy for something much wider: a cultural war of competing visions, competing futures, competing greeds. There are valid debates to be had about the ridiculous packing of the calendar, about best of three sets, about the future of team tennis in an era when the demands on individual players are more ruthless than ever, even about the migration of sport from a live event to a made-for-television entertainment, a movable flat-pack feast that can be auctioned to the highest bidder. But in order to have those debates, it’ll need everyone to stop shouting, and nobody seems to want to stop first. Men’s tennis may have to break apart before it comes together again.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 363 ========

THE FORGOTTEN HISTORY OF BUNNY STERLING, A SKILLED FIGHTER AND PIONEER IN THE FACE OF IGNORANCE AND PREJUDICE

It started for Basil Sylvester Sterling, better known simply as Bunny, behind closed doors at private clubs. No talking, no shouting, just cigars and ancient patronage for the boxers in the clouded ring.

Sterling fought over six rounds when he turned professional, losing his first three fights and returning to Kentish Town in north London, still an Irish and Caribbean slum in 1966, from the swanky surrounds of the high-ceilinged halls in Piccadilly where he made his money.

“It was tough from the very start, tough for me,” Sterling told me in 2010. “I had to take the fights and they were hard fights. It was either accept or not fight.” Bunny and George Francis, the trainer he had first met at the St Pancras amateur boxing club, were boxing outsiders in the late 60s; a black fighter and a white trainer with a gym filling up with other black fighters, Caribbean boxers, Windrush men and some Africans. Francis was fearless.

Sterling arrived in London from Jamaica when he was eight for a funeral, stayed, and died last Friday. He was 70 and he was the first immigrant boxer from the West Indies to win a British boxing title. He was also a gentleman, a skilled fighter and pioneer at a time of great ignorance and prejudice.

“I would get called a n***** lover and asked how I could have a gym full of so many monkeys – unbelievable stuff,” said Francis. “It never bothered me, it never bothered the fighters. Those were different days. I will tell you one thing, they all had to fight that bit harder for the respect.”

In 1970 Sterling fought for the British middleweight title at the Empire Pool, Wembley, against Mark Rowe, the beleaguered sport’s number one attraction at the box-office at the time. Rowe was blond, could really fight and was from the south London borders with Kent. Rowe’s fans packed the faded hall – it was a crumbling dump then – and reacted angrily when Sterling stopped their hero in four bloody rounds to make history. There were disgraceful scenes at ringside that night and Sterling was not meant to beat their idol. Sterling had won just 16 of his 27 fights when he entered the ring that night after a long wait, delays, fighting back-to-back eliminators, going on the road to make a few quid and being treated like an outsider. Sterling had become a very good fighter in adversity, in fights he had no chance of winning and in the 50-50 fights that a white British prospect would simply not have to accept. Sterling and Francis had no choice, Sterling was just one of the many black men in Britain desperate to get a living from the old sport. A black fighter could not be a prospect: well, nobody told Francis and Sterling that.

In many ways Sterling’s crazy journey started once he had the title. He was forced to go on the road, having three Commonwealth title fights in Australia in the next 18 months, a fight in Canada, one in Jamaica and a European title loss in Paris. In Britain the promoters were never desperate to use Sterling, never convinced that a black fighter could ever be an attraction, sell tickets, unless he was an American in the opposite corner, and it was two years and 11 fights before he defended his British title. There was also a rematch with Rowe in 1973 at the Royal Albert Hall and Sterling did it again, this time on points over 15 rounds. However, his wins, losses against good boxers overseas, his talent all failed miserably to move him any closer to anything like a world title fight.

Sterling was promised fights, promised riches and he joined a long list of black and white British boxers in the 70s who simply never had the opportunity they so deserved. Sterling was never bitter about his rejection, he knew that in the north London gym, run by Francis, there were others with harsher tales to tell. Francis would get his world champion in 1974 when John Conteh won the WBC light-heavyweight title and again in 1995 when he guided Frank Bruno to the heavyweight title.

Sterling lost his British title one night behind closed doors, again at the Hilton Hotel in London’s Park Lane. The bow-tied diners stashed their cigars in ashtrays to salute the 15-round fight with polite applause; Sterling lost to Kevin Finnegan and was paid just £1,500 at a time when other British boxers were getting as much as £20,000 for title fights.

A year later Sterling fought for the vacant middleweight title when he met the current British light-middleweight champion, Maurice Hope, who was born in Antigua, at the Café Royal, near Piccadilly. It is a fight that defies logic, even the warped logic of the men that put fights together back in the ancient 70s. Sterling stopped Hope in eight rounds, but four years later Hope became the first black immigrant British boxer to win a world title. Sterling won and lost the European title in his next two fights, in Germany and Italy, and quit the ring in 1977 after 57 bouts. Sterling was a young old man when he walked away, scarred, aged before his time and without the cash to live in luxury, but a bizarre meeting with a Saudi royal during his fighting days led to a career in the oil business. Hope would have to go on the road, travel to Italy and win his world title. These men were making history, forgotten history now and still getting paid tiny amounts in fights stacked against them. Sterling was the first, a decent man fighting against dreadful odds and somehow succeeding.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 364 ========

A TRUE ARTIST OF HER SPORT, SIMONE BILES HAS SHOWN THAT BEAUTY LIES IN BREAKING BOUNDARIES

The night before the start of the world championships in Doha, Simone Biles was in a hospital bed. She’d been suffering from agonising stomach pains for some days, and with no sign of abatement was forced to visit A&E, where doctors discovered a kidney stone. Surgery was out of the question, given that qualification for the women’s all-around began the following morning. An injection was out of the question, given anti-doping regulations. So Biles simply went back to her hotel and decided to compete through the pain.

On Thursday, she won her fourth world title in the all-around, the sport’s blue-riband event. She wasn’t anywhere near her best. She fell from the balance beam, fell on the landing to the vault, went out of bounds on her floor routine. Still, she won, and by a considerable distance: the gap of 1.7 points between Biles in first and Japan’s Mai Murakami in second was bigger than the gap between silver medal and 12th place. Or, put another way: Biles fell twice, could have fallen twice more, and still won gold.

To the gymnastics agnostic, there’s something weirdly compelling about this sort of dominance. On one level, we can have a conversation about difficulty tariffs, the uniqueness of her routines, the way Biles takes on vaults nobody else can, and so essentially begins every competition with an enormous head start. But behind all this, there’s a subtler and far more interesting process taking place, one in which Biles is not simply pushing at the boundaries of her own sport, but at the boundaries of sport itself: why we do it, what it means, what it’s for, possibly even what sport is supposed to be in the first place.

By way of illustration, watch Biles as she stands on the podium receiving her 12th world championship gold medal, a tally she may well have added to by the time you read this. She’s not happy. In fact, she looks livid, and only partly because of the kidney stone. And surely there’s a fundamental dissonance there, the sort that occurs when an athlete has so thoroughly outstripped the level of her fellow athletes that she has ceased, in any meaningful way, to judge herself against them. When you take the competition away, what remains?

Perhaps, in the end, only herself. Her breathtaking floor routine stands comparison with anything a man has ever produced. Her signature vault – ‘the Biles’ – has never been attempted in competition by any other woman. We’re moving into weird, uncharted territory here: where the conventional criteria of sporting success seem less relevant than the urge to invent, to create, to disrupt. As the former Olympic champion Nadia Comaneci puts it: “You have somebody who can do something we cannot even design on a paper.” What Biles is accomplishing is thus not so much pure sport as pure art: something that stands outside the narrow confines of her event, that sets her on a plane very few athletes have ever inhabited.

Who are the true artists of sport? I’m not just talking about people who looked nice, but who genuinely created something new through exemplar. Michael Jordan, perhaps. Lionel Messi, Dick Fosbury, maybe Tiger Woods. These are the change-makers: the athletes who transform their little corner of the world, and who thus in their own small way change the world itself. In one important respect, however, Biles has the capacity to surpass them all.

To understand how, you need to go back to 2006, and perhaps the most fundamental change in the history of gymnastics. That was the year in which the sport changed its Code of Points, removing the traditional maximum score of 10 and introducing an open-ended marking system, in which the only limit on a score was the athlete’s own imagination and physical capability. In a way, Biles was exactly the sort of gymnast envisioned by the new rules. In another, she may well be the one who tests them to destruction.

The long-term effect of the rule change was to turn gymnastics into a sort of physical arms (and legs) race, one that rewarded the most spectacular, tumble-laden routines, and thus placed a premium on explosive power, brute strength and acrobatic daring. For the first time, it was possible to fall and still win a gold medal, as long as you loaded your routine with enough difficulty: in other words, it was better to perform a super-difficult routine with a few errors, than to pull off a moderately-difficult routine perfectly.

In the wake of Biles’s most recent win, there has been a lively debate within the gymnastics community about this. Should you really be able to become world champion after messing up two of your four events? Should falls be penalised more severely? Is the goal of a world championship to discover the world’s best gymnast – which Biles clearly is, by any measure – or to reward the best gymnastic performance on the day?

There is, of course, a deeper subtext to this entire issue. At Biles’s first world championships in 2013, one of her Italian rivals Carlotta Ferlito joked that she and her team-mate would “paint our skin black, so then we could win too”. Ferlito quickly apologised for her comment, but afterwards a spokesman for the Italian Gymnastics Federation named David Ciaralli offered up a chilling and telling defence.

“Carlotta was talking about what she thinks is the current gymnastics trend,” Ciaralli said, as quoted in Dvora Meyers’s book ‘The End of the Perfect 10’. “The Code of Points is opening chances for coloured people (known to be more powerful) and penalising the typical Eastern European elegance, which when gymnastics was more artistic and less acrobatic, allowed Russia and Romania to dominate the field.”

This is a surprisingly prevalent view within gymnastics, although it’s not always expressed in such nakedly racist terms. In 2014 Bruno Grandi, the president of the International Gymnastics Federation argued that the current scoring system has resulted in “less pleasing gymnastics”, arguing that the sport was prioritising “too much of its acrobatic part and not too much artistry”. And in these words, and countless other media articles lamenting the death of “beauty” and “elegance” in modern gymnastics, we can identify a clear underlying prejudice: one that still adheres to Old World, white-centric ideals of elegance and beauty, artistry and body shape.

A false dichotomy is at work here: one that places “beauty” in opposition to “power”, “artistry” in opposition to “acrobatics”, the “elegant” in opposition to the “explosive”. The crowning achievement of Biles – and the likes of Gabby Douglas and Aly Raisman before her – is to prove you can be both at once. That elegance can come with rippling leg muscles. That the delicate can also be spectacular. That beauty is not necessarily a six-stone blonde Russian waif. That true artistry lies not in conforming to pre-existing ideals, but creating new ones, and in so doing, very possibly redefining the notion of beauty itself.

That’s the gymnastics part. Then, of course, there’s everything else: the advocacy, the triumph over adversity, the journey. Biles never knew her father, and was adopted by her grandparents due to her mother’s substance abuse. Earlier this year, she came forward to testify that she, like so many of her fellow gymnasts, had been sexually abused by the US team doctor Larry Nassar, whose crimes were systematically covered up for decades. She wears a teal leotard in solidarity with her fellow victims. She is – and this bears repeating more than once – still only 21.

What’s left? Well, there’s the Tokyo Olympics in two years, where she could add to the four golds she won in Rio and become the first woman to retain the all-around title for more than half a century. But you sense that in large part, the greatness of Biles can no longer be measured on a judge’s scorecard or a medal table or an expensive infographic, but in something less tangible.

What’s left? Only the still-untouched boundaries of her own athletic capacity. Only the terrifying thrill of watching her perform. Only the pure rush of throwing yourself nine feet into the air, feeling both weightless and timeless, and knowing as you reach your apex that no woman has ever done this before. Only the pure art of the true pioneer. Only the legacy of those who will follow in her tiny footsteps. Only the sheer inspiration and irrepressible endurance of the greatest gymnast who has ever walked the Earth.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 365 ========

JACK GREALISH HELPS ASTON VILLA TEAR THROUGH BIRMINGHAM TO EARN SECOND-CITY BRAGGING RIGHTS

It was a dream come true for a couple of people in the dressing room at Villa Park come full-time. Dean Smith’s boyhood ambition of having bragging rights after the second-city derby was finally a reality, as was Jack Grealish’s desire to grab a goal against the club’s bitter rivals.

A six-goal thriller on a blisteringly cold Sunday lunchtime saw Villa come from behind in the first half to dominate the scoresheet, winning 4-2.

There couldn’t have been much of a better time for these noisy neighbours to meet. Just a single goal separating the two in the Championship must’ve made the fortnight break from club football feel like a lifetime.

In both technical areas, this was a managerial derby debut for Smith and Garry Monk. Ahead of the showdown, both knew how to sell it. Monk said "all the pressure was on Villa", and Smith played it down as just another fixture. The Blues have loved playing the underdog, especially under their latest manager. It’s part of how he managed to achieve the nail-biting victory over Fulham to stay up on the final day of last season, and take three points at Marcelo Bielsa’s Leeds in September.

But as much as the visitors tried typically to slow down the game to start with, and plug the gaps, it wouldn’t last forever.

When the atmosphere started to dwindle only 25 minutes in, and the mediocre display began to inspire thoughts that this clash was doomed to be no more than a dull mid-table stalemate, the goals came flooding in and Villa Park was cranked up to 11.

First came Villa captain James Chester’s mistake, which lead to the opening goal. A Connor Mahoney corner looped over to the back post to find Jutkiewicz, who came flying in from the edge of the box to tuck it home. The October player of the month travelled the length of the field to the away corner to celebrate his ninth goal in as many games, where blue flares had already been set off and the party, be it the smaller one, had already started.

But Villa came back fighting immediately, and it didn’t take long to find an equaliser. Albert Adomah’s pace down the right-hand side seemed the optimum route to goal. His ball over was headed on to Kodjia, who had time to chest it down and hammer home. It was the lift home fans needed, and the momentum switched.

Minutes later, it was time for Villa’s own Jack Grealish to step up, as he’d spent a lot of the game on the floor. A long ball to the back post was nodded in by the young midfielder to complete the turnaround, wheeling away into a knee-slide in front of the Trinity Road stand. The stands were shaking with the deafening cheers, home fans cracking out their own claret flares.

The pace of the game was yet to settle as the second half got under way either. Referee Robert Jones signalled for a penalty as Blues captain Michael Morrison bought down Tammy Abraham – although replays showed it was a dubious call. The striker fired in off the post to put some daylight between them and the visitors.

Chance after chance came for both sides. A Conor Hourihane free-kick forced a fantastic save from Lee Camp, tipping it just over as Villa pushed for another. In similar fashion to Adomah earlier on, Mahoney came close as he cut into the box, his shot grazing the crossbar.

Birmingham's football hadn’t been the prettiest, but some defensive mistakes lead to a route back into the game just before the hour. Kristian Pederson was left with the freedom to volley home in the Villa box.

This wasn’t going to be enough though. As Villa continued to hit the visitors on the break, Alan Hutton then completed the damage with 15 minutes still to go with what the right-back described afterwards as the best goal of his career. Intercepting a ball in his own half, the Scot went on a driving run through the middle, City players melting away as he powered on towards goal. As he curled his shot past Camp into the bottom corner, Hutton jumped into the stands, a crowd of his teammates eventually joining to celebrate in the madness of it all.

The last time the Blues managed to engineer a win in the derby was when both sides were still in the Premier League together 13 years ago. They’ll now have to wait until the new year for another chance to put that stat to bed.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 366 ========

TOTTENHAM VS CHELSEA: SPURS END RIVAL’S UNDEFEATED RUN AS SON HEUNG-MIN SOLO GOAL STEALS THE SHOW

Remember the old Tottenham Hotspur? The Spurs that finished second and third in the Premier League, that ripped opponents - good opponents - to shreds with their relentless pressing from the front. The Spurs that wiped Manchester City, Manchester United, Liverpool, Chelsea and Real Madrid off the pitch when they came to town. The Spurs where Harry Kane would score from nowhere, and Dele Alli would ghost in before defenders could even see him.

Tottenham this season have not been bad. They started today’s game in fifth place. But they have not been like that. They have been grinding out results, winning ugly, and scraping past lesser teams. The focus has been more on the stadium delays and debt, and the lack of signings, than on the football itself.

But not today. This was Spurs’ best performance of the season by a distance, their best since they beat Real Madrid 3-1 here more than one year ago. And that scoreline, emphatic enough in itself, does absolutely nothing to convey the extent of Spurs’ dominance here at Wembley.

Had Tottenham scored six or seven it would have been a more accurate reflection of how the game went. They looked like scoring with every attack, Kane, Alli and Heung-Min Son slicing through a Chelsea defence that looked utterly unprepared for the challenge of today’s game. There will be plenty of questions about Maurizio Sarri’s side, their tactics, their personnel. But this afternoon should be all about Mauricio Pochettino and his players.

Because just when it felt as if this season might drift away from Spurs, likely out of the Champions League, still without a stadium, miles off the pace of Manchester City, they now have one of those unforgettable games they can all rally around. Play like this against Inter Milan on Wednesday night, or Arsenal on Sunday, and suddenly everything will feel possible again. Especially with their most important man back to his best.

Remember the Harry Kane of a year or two ago and one of his great gifts was his audacity, that ability to spot a gap and find it before anyone else in the ground could realise what had happened. Watch a compilation of Kane’s goals and there are plenty like this, where he finds the bottom corner from at least 20 yards out, with the goalkeeper and defence still expecting a pass. This is what Kane does at his best but anyone who has watched him recently knows he has not been playing this way. He has been taking fewer shots, hitting them later, as if that confidence to take a risk was left behind at White Hart Lane.

But it was immediately clear here that this evening was going to different. No more of the tentative, cautious Kane of recent months, who has taken an extra touch and an extra second by the time 2016 Kane would already be wheeling away.

Even after three minutes Kane should have put Spurs ahead, pouncing on Serge Aurier’s cross but seeing his header tipped away by Kepa. But he was too sharp for Chelsea, first to everything, and helped them into the lead when he won a free-kick from David Luiz that Alli headed in.

In this furious first 20 minutes Tottenham looked like scoring with every attack, which is not something you can say about many of their performances this season. Son had two glaring chances to make it 2-0 but when the second goal came, Kane was the only man on the pitch who saw it. Cutting in from the left, he saw how much room there was down to Kepa’s right. So he bent an early shot behind David Luiz’s turned back and into the bottom corner. Precisely the type of goal Kane always used to score, and the surest sign yet he is getting back to his best.

And yet to reduce this all to one player is to ignore the fact that Spurs at their best are a high-performance machine in which every single part has a role to play. And that this was an evening when every single Spurs player reached a level he has not done so far this season, each man improving every other one around him.

Yes, it was Kane’s day but it belonged just as much to Alli. He, like Kane, has struggled this season, with post-World Cup fatigue and a hamstring injury that kept him out for a month. But here, tucked in as an inside-forward, he played with all the energy, flair and impudence he shows at his best. Always inventing, always probing, never giving the Chelsea back four a second of rest. He sensed early on that this was not like the Chelsea teams of old, that there was space to run into, and he never stopped testing them out.

And it was Alli who scored the most important goal of all, the first one, the man who broke open the game. Only eight minutes had gone when Eriksen drove in a flat free-kick from the right, the perfect weight for a skimmed header into the net. Alli has been reading Eriksen’s deliveries for years now and he got just enough on the ball to beat Kepa and score, his first goal for two months.

But the real star of the show here was Son. Once Spurs had the lead and Chelsea had to open themselves up even further, he became the most dangerous player on the pitch. Chelsea never came to terms with his movement, either his quick dribbles with the ball or his late darts without it. They barely even looked like they wanted to. Son looked like he could not believe his luck, and wasted two golden first-half chances set up by Eriksen and curled another just with his left. The only man stopping Son from scoring was himself.

Nine minutes into the second half Son managed to overcome that with one of the greatest goals of his time at Spurs. Running away down the right wing, getting on the end of a Dele Alli pass, he skipped past Jorginho far too easily and then shuffled inside to get past Luiz. It should not have been that easy to get through on goal but there he was, and with his left boot he beat Kepa from close range.

Kane and Alli both missed good chances to make it 4-0 and in the end it was Olivier Giroud who scored the fourth and final goal of the game, giving the scoreline an appearance of evenness or proximity that was utterly at odds with the events of the 90 minutes.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 367 ========

MARIN CILIC CRUSHES LOUCAS POUILLE TO SEAL HISTORIC DAVIS CUP WIN FOR CROATIA

Marin Cilic clinched Croatia's second Davis Cup title by crushing France's Lucas Pouille 7-6(3) 6-3 6-3 to give his side a decisive 3-1 lead in an historic final at Lille's Stade Pierre Mauroy on Sunday.

The powerful world No 7 was relentless as he snuffed out any hope of a famous French fightback - giving Pouille little chance of extending the last final in the 118-year-old competition's current guise into a deciding fifth rubber.

Pouille, 24, did not have a single break point and despite pushing Cilic hard in the first set, he lost the last four points of the tiebreak and never threatened a comeback.

Cilic wasted four set points when Pouille battled back from 0-40 down at 2-5 in the second set but with his own serve rock-solid he calmly moved into a two-set lead.

The mainly French 22,000 crowd kept roaring their support for Pouille, but it was the Croatia contingent, decked out in their distinctive red and white, who would soon be celebrating.

Cilic broke for a 3-2 lead in the third set and then closed in for the kill when Pouille served at 3-5.

The Frenchman saved two match points from 0-40 but Cilic would not be denied and finished it off with a delightful lob.

Immediately the 30-year-old former US Open champion was swamped by a swarm of his team mates as Croatia could begin the party after emulating their triumph of 2005.

Croatia's sports-mad President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic was among the fans at courtside to savour a landmark title which offered a measure of consolation after France beat Croatia in this year's soccer World Cup final.

"It's not every day that you become a world champion," Cilic, draped in a Croatian flag, said on court.

"For us it's a dream come true, for this nation. You can see the fans are so passionate and they are here enjoying themselves. In Croatia it's going to be incredible too."

Whatever happens in the future Croatia's win will have a special place in the record books as this was the last 'one on one' final before the competition undergoes a major revamp.

The 16-team World Group, established in 1981, will be scrapped next year in favour of an 18-nation World Cup-style finals week that will take place in Madrid.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 368 ========

MICK MCCARTHY APPOINTED REPUBLIC OF IRELAND MANAGER AS FAI OUTLINES STEPHEN KENNY SUCCESSION PLAN

Mick McCarthy will succeed Martin O’Neill as the Republic of Ireland manager after signing a two-year contract with the FAI, as the organisation outlined a long-term plan which will see the highly rated Stephen Kenny take over in 2020.

The 59-year-old McCarthy will embark on his second stint in charge of Ireland, after his first came to an end following the 2002 World Cup, and will be expected to earn qualification for the 2020 European Championships.

The FAI also confirmed the appointment of Kenny, who has enjoyed a successful six-year spell in charge of the League of Ireland Premier Division champions Dundalk, as Ireland’s under-21 manager, with a plan to succeed McCarthy in two years following Euro 2020.

McCarthy said: “I’m honoured and excited to be back with the Republic of Ireland. I am delighted that the FAI Board and CEO have given me this opportunity to lead the team to Euro 2020.”

The FAI chief executive John Delaney said McCarthy was the obvious candidate to replace O’Neill, who left the role this week after relegation in the Nations League.

Delaney said: “This is a very exciting time for Irish football as we are able to welcome back a proven manager at international level in Mick McCarthy and also look to the future with Stephen Kenny.

“Mick was a great player for Ireland and then had a terrific impact as manager by guiding the team to the round of 16 in the 2002 World Cup following a memorable draw with eventual finalists Germany.

“There is no doubt that he knows international football and has the appetite to lead the team forward again.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 369 ========

WALES WIN OVER SOUTH AFRICA BRINGS WARREN GATLAND’S WORLD CUP CONTENDERS OUT FROM UNDER THE RADAR

It was left to South Africa’s erudite coach Rassie Erasmus to best sum up Wales’ progress over the past 18 months and identify how Warren Gatland has shaped a squad now firmly established as World Cup contenders.

“The Welsh are just totally in sync and aligned with what they want to do tactically and technically,” Erasmus said after his side slipped to their fourth loss in succession to Wales on Saturday night.

“The planning of their cycle to peak at the World Cup has been excellent. They obviously think more long term than maybe other countries who are in crisis management trying to get back onto the boat trying to get good performances and put good squads together.

“If you look at Warren’s squad you can see he’s building lots of fly halves, lots of nines, lots of twos, lots of 15s. He’s got a proper squad to pick a World Cup squad out of.”

There was a thinly veiled dig in there at England, for sure, but Erasmus’s broader point about long-term planning and the resultant squad depth was spot on.

Proper squad, proper coach, proper prospects. Wales are in the shape of their collective lives going into next year’s World Cup cycle following a near perfect autumn which saw them win four Tests from four for the first time and extend their winning run to nine in succession.

It seems extraordinary now that some scoffed at Gatland’s insistence on chopping and changing his team to add depth and experience when clearly the New Zealander knew what he was doing all along.

Remember the outcry when Gatland picked a second-string side to face Italy in the Six Nations? Or when he opted to rest his key stars over the summer and take a young, thrusting squad to Argentina, where they proceeded to win the series 2-0 and blood a whole raft of youngsters who otherwise would still be craving international exposure.

Among those young(ish) bloods were Ellis Jenkins and Gareth Anscombe, who have both emerged as impressive leaders and players in the current Welsh squad.

Jenkins, who is set to be side-lined for an extended period after a questionable South African clear out at the end of the match left him with a potentially serious ACL injury, was absolutely magnificent on Saturday.

Only 12 months ago the Cardiff Blues flanker sat behind a long list of high-class back row performers including Sam Warburton, Dan Lydiate, Aaron Shingler, Josh Navidi and Justin Tipuric – all of whom either have or could grace a British and Irish Lions shirt in the future – as his prospects of playing in next year’s World Cup seemed remote at best.

Warburton’s retirement through injury has opened the door for club and to a lesser extent country and Jenkins.

On the evidence of Saturday night in Cardiff, when he was the best player on the field by some distance after receiving a late call off the bench to replace the injured Lydiate, the 25-year-old Cardiff Blues captain will be among the first names pencilled into Gatland’s squad for Japan next year.

Jenkins can console himself with that probability as he begins what looks likely to be a lengthy recovery process over the coming months. As carrots dangling at the end of a tunnel go, they don’t get much juicier than a World Cup squad place. We wish him well on his recovery.

With No8s Ross Moriarty and Taulupe Faletau also likely to fully fit and firing come the World Cup, Wales can now rightfully claim to have more back-row depth than any other country in the world. It is a healthy place to be.

Like Jenkins, Anscombe grew in status over the summer and was deservedly given a starting berth on Saturday. It didn’t go perfectly for the New Zealand born playmaker, with a couple of missed touch finds blotting his copybook, but he showed enough quality going forward to reaffirm the belief Gatland has options at No10 aside from Dan Biggar, Rhys Patchell and Blues young tyro Jarrod Evans.

Elsewhere, Liam Williams was tin-tack sharp at full back while George North has enjoyed a fine autumn and looks reborn on a National Dual Contract at Ospreys while Hadleigh Parkes had his best game of the Under Armour series and Jon Davies is fit, firing and fresh again.

Scarlets and Lions prop Rob Evans has also been hugely impressive off the bench after returning from injury to give Gatland the sort of depth other nations crave. “A proper squad to pick a World Cup squad from.”

Erasmus said it, the rest of the world now knows it. The only negative for Gatland is that he no longer has a hope of keeping his squad “under the radar” where he wants them.

He attempted to push the focus back onto Ireland and England after the game but Wales’ secret is out.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 370 ========

TYSON FURY VS DEONTAY WILDER: FIGHT MADE AVAILABLE TO WATCH VIA LIVE STREAM THROUGH APP FOR THE FIRST TIME

Next month’s highly-anticipated clash of unbeaten heavyweights Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder will be made legally available to stream live through an app.

Showtime PPV, who are broadcasting the bout in the US, are also making the event available through their official app for subscribers and non-subscribers to purchase and live stream.

The app can be downloaded on Apple, Amazon and Android devices, or viewers can also watch directly on Showtime.com, with the event itself priced at $74.99 (£58.65).

Additional tickets for the fight at Staples Center in Los Angeles on 1 December have also been released due to overwhelming demand, priced at $125 (£98) and $75 (£59).

Fury and Wilder are both hoping that a victory will put them in position to challenge Anthony Joshua in a lucrative fight to unify the world heavyweight belts at some point in 2019.

Wilder, who has ended 39 of his 40 professional bouts inside the distance, has held the WBC world heavyweight title since defeating Haitian-Canadian veteran Bermane Stiverne in 2015.

Fury (27-0, 19 KOs) claimed the other three major heavyweight belts with a shock unanimous decision win over Wladimir Klitschko in November 2015, but vacated his titles 11 months later and spent more than two years out of the ring due to a prolonged legal battle with UK Anti-Doping, as well as issues with substance abuse and depression.

The fight will be broadcast live on Showtime PPV in the US and BT Sport Box Office in the UK.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 371 ========

MICHAEL ESSIEN SAYS HE WILL TURN TO JOSE MOURINHO FOR COACHING ADVICE AS HE CONSIDERS MANAGERIAL CAREER

At almost 36 years old, Michael Essien is without a club. He hasn’t made a competitive appearance for over a year, after he was released by Indonesian side Persib Bandung. The former Chelsea midfielder understands there isn’t long left now before he finally has to throw in the towel, marking the end of a career filled with success – two Premier League and Ligue 1 titles, one Champions League – and plagued with injury.

But while Essien believes there’s still football to play, he’s currently at the stage of determining what to do when retirement comes, and one option he’s open to is management.

“I’m still thinking about it to be honest,” he tells The Independent. “I’ve been following some of the coaches, trying to get a little bit more experience, because coaching is very different from being a player. I’m trying to see that side of it, and taking in everything. And when I decide to hang up my shoes, hopefully I know what I’m going to do.

“If I want to go into coaching, Jose would be the first person I would pick up the phone and call and get some advice. I played with some top managers, so I can pick up the phone and call any of them and I’m sure they would help me out, they would give me some guidance and take it from there.”

If the Ghanaian does opt for life on the touchline, it would make obvious sense for this to be his primary point of contact. Jose Mourinho has been a father figure to Essien since his arrival at Stamford Bridge 13 years ago. When signing for Real Madrid on loan, another chance to play together, the midfielder repeatedly referred to him as “daddy” during his first press conference. Mourinho has even ventured back to Essien’s home in Accra to meet his real family. There is no doubt of a special bond with the special one.

Despite this, there was a resistance to talk about Mourinho at first. The Man United boss is notorious for his refractory attitude with the media, and Essien clearly doesn’t want to comment on anything that may add to the build-up of negative headlines.

As he ponders his next move, Essien’s former Chelsea colleagues have also made significant career decisions. Joe Cole and Didier Drogba, who were at the club when he arrived, have both announced their retirement over the last fortnight. And Frank Lampard, who Essien says was the best player he’d ever appeared alongside, made the switch to management this summer.

“It’s a big surprise for me,” he says, letting out a short chuckle again, “because if somebody asked me when I was a playing if Frank Lampard would be a manager I would say no, because he’s very quiet. He would say something if he needs to. But he would come in, train well, plays football, and just goes home. But I know he’s a very intelligent boy. So yeah it’s quite a big surprise for me, but he’s been really good.”

When explaining why being a pundit has never crossed his mind, Essien admits something that is already quite obvious – “I’m a man of few words,” he laughs, “I don’t really like talking.” It’s true, his softly-spoken and mostly laconic answers had been an onerous task to draw out as he was cross-examined for thoughts on his future.

But even if Essien isn’t cut out for the world of post-match analysis, that doesn’t seem to bother him. Not many things do. For now, he’s still got an eye on his immediate plans. As he continues to keep up his fitness, training regularly at Chelsea’s Cobham facilities, Essien says there are various offers on the table that he’s yet to make a final decision on. He’s still open to ideas, even admitting he might entertain a contact from a Football League club.

“I want to keep playing,” he insists, “I mean I think I still have a year or two in me, but I’m not rushing into anything. If something comes up and it’s interesting I might consider it. I think that’s what I’m trying to do really, and we’ll see what happens.

“I just want to enjoy the few years ahead of me playing football. It’s something I love, it doesn’t really matter [where]. I’ve played at the highest level, so I’m just looking forward to enjoying the football, so anywhere there is interest, then yeah. I will consider it.”

Essien is taking part in the EE Wembley Cup on Sunday, November 25, playing with the likes of Robert Pires, Cafu, and David Trezeguet. Tickets are available via www.ee.co.uk/wembleycup

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 372 ========

HUDDERSFIELD BEAT WOLVES TO EARN CRUCIAL THREE POINTS

Aaron Mooy scored twice as Huddersfield climbed off the bottom of the Premier League table with a surprise 2-0 victory against Wolves.

The Australia international midfielder found the net in each half as the Terriers were deserved winners at Molineux, where the hosts looked off the pace on their return from the international break.

Mooy's double was the first time Huddersfield had scored twice in a game this season and their second win of the campaign lifted David Wagner's team up to 14th in the table. Wolves are now without a win in five Premier League matches, losing four. PA

The final game of Sunday afternoon's Premier League action is Wolves vs Huddersfield. Callum will be here shortly with all the team news and build-up to the game at Molineux. In the meantime, we point in you in the direction of Jonathan Liew's brilliant assessment of Moussa Sissoko from Tottenham's win over Chelsea at Wembley on Saturday: Moussa Sissoko weaves Chelsea into his dizzying vortex of chaos The teams are in! Contrasting starts This is, of course, a clash between two sides who are relatively new to the Premier League. Wolves have adjusted well since their promotion as Championship winners last season, while Huddersfield are hopeful of narrowly avoiding the drop for a second successive year. The hosts will be strong favourites today. A win will see them move into tenth, above Leicester. Huddersfield, meanwhile, sit bottom, and will stay there if they don't avoid defeat today. This is, admittedly, not likely to be an eight-goal thriller. But it is an intriguing contest nonetheless. The teams are out. Not long to go now. Can Wolves get their first win in four games? Or will Huddersfield build on their two-game unbeaten run and move off the bottom? KICK OFF Wolves kick us off at Molineux. Wolves 0-0 Huddersfield 3 minutes Some early pressure from the hosts. Moutinho swings in a corner and Bennett's header is blocked. GOAL! GOAL! Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield (Mooy) 6 minutes Huddersfield's travelling fans go wild. The ball is pulled back into the path of Mooy and the Australian guides his right-footed shot expertly into the bottom corner. Wolves are caught out, and now they have a job on their hands to come from behind. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 9 minutes The home fans are making their frustration clear. Wolves have not started well: they look unusually sloppy defensively and have made things too easy for the visitors. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 10 minutes Excellent tackle by Kongolo to deny Cavaleiro, who was on his way through on goal. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 14 minutes Another dangerous Huddersfield counter. Pritchard finds space and runs at the Wolves backline. His shot is blocked and loops out for a corner, but there's an alarming amount of space on the break for the visitors. YELLOW CARD Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 17 minutes Huddersfield's Tommy Smith slides in but gets nowhere near the ball. He's in the book and will have to be careful now. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 20 minutes Huddersfield look a well-organised and accomplished team so far, which might surprise some Wolves fans. David Wagner's side are executing their game plan immaculately, and playing with a lot of energy. How long they can keep it up for remains to be seen. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 24 minutes Wolves captain Coady makes a typically strong challenge on Hadergjonaj to thwart another dangerous counter. He's left feeling the effects of it, and there's a pause in play as he receives treatment. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 30 minutes Another pause in play as Boly receives treatment. This game isn't flowing and that will suit Huddersfield. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 33 minutes Huddersfield have hardly given Wolves a sniff in front of goal. There's little cohesion in the hosts' attacks, despite their domination of possession. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 35 minutes Bennett goes for goal from distance, but his shot is way over. Huddersfield will welcome more efforts like that. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 37 minutes Big chance for Mounie. He attacks a corner with purpose and wins a header. There's enough power, but it's straight at Rui Patrício. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 39 minutes This time Kongolo wins a header at the back post. Again, though, it's straight at the goalkeeper. Wolves 0-1 Huddersfield 43 minutes Moutinho is robbed of the ball in midfield by Mooy and Huddersfield look to spring another counter. They have done that well throughout, transitioning quickly from defence to attack. Wolves, meanwhile, have been poor and the fans are voicing their discontent. 1 2 3 Next

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 373 ========

ARSENAL SHOW RESILIENT SIDE TO OVERCOME BOURNEMOUTH

Arsenal extended their unbeaten run to 17 games in all competitions on Sunday with a 2-1 victory at Bournemouth that moved them within a point of the Premier League's top four.

The home team's record signing Jefferson Lerma, who cost £25m in August, scored a spectacular own goal to give Arsenal the lead but Norwegian international Josh King, back in the Bournemouth side after injury, equalised just before half-time.

That meant Unai Emery's team have still never led at the halfway stage of a league game since he joined in the close-season.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang slid in the Gunners' second goal in the 68th minute and their three-man back line held out, although Lerma hit a post.

Arsenal can make up ground on their big local rivals Tottenham Hotspur, who are still three points ahead of them, by winning the north London derby next weekend.

Bournemouth stayed eighth after a third successive defeat in a testing period, with fixtures against Manchester City and Liverpool to come in the first eight days of December.

Reuters

It's Bournemouth vs Arsenal from 1.30pm. Team news and full build-up coming shortly, but in the meantime here's the latest from the Arsenal camp: Unai Emery insists attack is the best form of defence for Arsenal The teams are in! Bournemouth: Begovic; Francis, Cook, Ake, Daniels; Brooks, Gosling, Lerma, Fraser; King, Wilson Arsenal: Leno; Bellerin, Mustafi, Holding, Sokratis; Torreira, Xhaka; Iwobi, Mkhitaryan, Kolasinac; Aubameyang The race for Europe A win for Bournemouth at the Vitality Stadium today would take them to within a point of Arsenal and up to sixth in the Premier League. The Gunners, meanwhile, are looking to close the gap on Chelsea in fourth, after Maurizio Sarri's side were beaten by Tottenham last night. No Ozil Mesut Ozil drops to the bench for Arsenal, and there is no sign of Alexandre Lacazette. For the hosts, Joshua King makes his first start since the end of October. All-out attack This shouldn't be a cagey encounter. Both of these teams are at their best when on the front foot, not when trying to hold on to a lead. Bournemouth, under Eddie Howe, are a team capable of scoring goals against the best in the division, so the Gunners will no doubt be wary of the threat they pose. Expect goals in this one. Back on track Bournemouth, after a superb start to the season, have dropped off slightly in recent weeks. Back-to-back defeats against Manchester United and Newcastle brought them back down to earth, but a win here would put them back on track. Similarly, Arsenal have found victories hard to come by of late. They have drawn their last three league games, but they have an opportunity now to move within a point of Chelsea. The teams are out at the Vitality and we're moments away from kick off... KICK OFF Bournemouth get us underway. Can the hosts get off to a quick start? Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 1 minute Bournemouth are immediately on the front foot. King looks to pick out Brooks but sees his pass blocked, before Wilson drives at Arsenal's defence. It comes to nothing. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 3 minutes Arsenal threaten for the first time as Mkhitaryan fires a shot off. It's blocked and Bournemouth come away with the ball. Unsurprisingly, it's been an open start here. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 7 minutes The game has been played mostly in Arsenal's half thus far. The hosts look bright and inventive, while the away side appear to still be adjusting to Unai Emery's change of system. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 8 minutes Brooks has the ball in the back of the net for Bournemouth, but the linesman has his flag up. No goal. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 9 minutes Now Arsenal come close. Torreira strikes one from long range and Begovic gets a touch to push it onto the post. Iwobi, with space and time, can't convert the rebound. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 12 minutes Bournemouth probe, looking to find a way through the visitors' defence. The signs have been promising for them so far. Arsenal's defenders do not look entirely comfortable in a back three, and there's a worrying amount of space down the sides. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 16 minutes Lovely interplay on the left wing between Daniels and Brooks. The former puts the ball across but it evades everyone. Arsenal have not settled yet, and Emery will be concerned. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 20 minutes Much better from the visitors. Kolasinac is played in on the left and looks to drive the ball across goal. Then Iwobi gets a shot off but it's straight at Begovic. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 23 minutes Chance for Aubameyang. Arsenal's top scorer has been quiet so far, but the ball falls to him from a corner and he fires a shot just over. Bournemouth 0-0 Arsenal 24 minutes Arsenal are enjoying a spell of pressure now. Aubameyang picks out Kolasinac with a cross to the far post, but the full back heads wide. GOAL! GOAL! Bournemouth 0-1 Arsenal (Lerma OG) 30 minutes A disastrous own goal gives Arsenal the lead. Lerma, in an attempt to get a foot on Kolasinac's ball across, can only drill the ball past his own goalkeeper. Had it been at the other end, it would've been a good finish. 1 2 3 Next

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 374 ========

AT LEAST MAURIZIO SARRI WAS HONEST ABOUT CHELSEA'S UTTERLY HOPELESS PERFORMANCE, NOW HE MUST HOPE IT'S A ONE-OFF

Maurizio Sarri left nothing out and spared no-one. His team had been “very bad in all directions, physically, mentally, technically and tactically.” No player had impressed him, but even if he had played 11 different players he would not have expected a different result.

It was as meticulous a destruction of a team’s performance as you will hear from any manager in a press conference this year. Three times Sarri used the word “disaster” and he made clear it applied to the whole team, not just his defence. But then desperate measures are for desperate times and this was the worst performance you will see from any Big Six side all year, a performance where a 3-1 defeat was a miscarriage of justice and 6-1 would have been a fairer sentence.

Think of everything you would associate with Chelsea teams over the years: organisation, discipline, refusal to lose, bodies on the line defending, personal responsibility, all the rest of it. Literally none of this was on show at Wembley on Saturday evening. And Sarri knew it. He spoke afterwards with sadness rather than surprise, and the forcefulness of a man hoping his message would start to get through to his players.

“Today I saw a lot of problems,” Sarri explained. “We played very badly from a physical point of view. Mentally. Technically, especially the first 25 minutes. Tactically. So we have a lot of work, we have a lot of problems to solve. But I knew it very well before this match. And now I think it is clear for everybody, and I hope first of all, for the players.”

Sarri could have left it at that but instead he went into detail about why the Chelsea performance was such a “disaster”. And as bad as the defence was, he made it clear that this was a collective failure. The whole team was on the hook.

“The defensive phase today was a disaster,” he said. “I am not just talking about the defensive line, but the defensive phase. The offensive players pressed very badly. The midfielders defended…not very well. And the defensive line, as a consequence, was a disaster. But it was a disaster in the defensive phase of the team.”

The problem, or one of them, was that Spurs had realised how vulnerable Jorginho can be when put under pressure. Mauricio Pochettino had switched formation, going to a 4-3-1-2 with Dele Alli putting maximum pressure on a defensive midfielder who does not like to defend. The result, frankly, was carnage. And worst of all Sarri looked like a man who knew what was going wrong but had no way of solving it.

“It was clear after five minutes that it was really difficult to use Jorginho as usual,” Sarri said. “We were surprised because they usually play 4-2-3-1 or 4-3-3, and today they played 4-3-1-2. In the first 25 to 30 minutes we have big problems to exit from our half. We lost a lot of balls. Against Tottenham it is very dangerous to lose a lot of the ball in your half. In short counter-attacks they are one of the strongest teams in Europe. So it was a disaster. After 20 minutes, 2-0 was the minimum.”

“They were better than us, 11 players out of 11.I wanted to change the match with something different. But I think that I could have changed 11 players with the same result.”

What Sarri really needs is time on the training ground to fix this, but he knows that he will not get it. Chelsea have two more Europa League group games left and then he is into his first Christmas spell in English football. There is barely time to breathe, never mind to coach his players how to be organised better. “We have to work in training,” he said. “You know very well it is not easy. Unfortunately we have no time. We have to play every two days, so it is very difficult to have training just for improving the team. We have time only to prepare the next match. But we have to try to do something.”

But as strikingly bad as this Chelsea performance was, maybe it should not have come as a surprise. Because there was a growing sense before today among some Chelsea fans that a bad defeat for them was in the post. Because as well as the team had started the season - unbeaten before today - and as well as Eden Hazard had been playing, the team as a whole had been far from perfect.

Just to watch Chelsea play this season is to see a team awkwardly trying to teach themselves how to do something that is difficult, dangerous and far from natural for them. At times it has been thrilling, at times it has been nervy but it has never felt safe. And how could it? Chelsea play an aggressive 4-3-3 with the full-backs pushed all the way up.

Manchester City can make that work but they are in their third season with Pep Guardiola, they have one of the league’s canniest defensive midfielders in Fernandinho and two centre-backs quick enough to cover the wide areas to defend against the counter. Chelsea have none of the elements required to make the system work. David Luiz and Antonio Rudiger are flawed in different ways while Jorginho is a defensive midfielder who is not athletic enough to defend properly. This means that Chelsea can be remarkably easy to turn over when teams win the ball, with space to run into everywhere you look.

That was the story at Wembley on Saturday night. Sarri admitted that he was caught off-guard by Spurs’ 4-3-1-2 with Alli playing in between the lines. Kane and Son got in behind the centre-backs every time they wanted to and it is no exaggeration at all to say that Tottenham should have won 7-0.

Apart from everything else it felt like the most un-Chelsea like performance of modern times. This was a team whose great successes over the years have been built on watertight defence, and an absolute refusal to give opponents a single inch. Here, the Chelsea back four gave them yards and yards and yards. Chelsea conceded 15 goals on their way to the 2004-05 title, 22 when they retained the title the following year, 27 when Jose Mourinho returned in 2013-14, 32 when they won the title back the following year. Keep defending like this and they will obliterate those figures this season. Sarri’s job is to make sure this is just a one-off

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 375 ========

TEAR GAS AND TENSION: THE SHAMEFUL INSIDE STORY OF THE COPA LIBERTADORES FINAL THAT NEVER WAS

It was the derby built up as “the final to end all finals” and yet, shamefully, it did not even start – at least not on the Saturday it was scheduled.

After another long and tense wait on the evening itself, the 2018 Copa Libertadores final second leg was finally postponed until the following Sunday after Boca Juniors’ bus was attacked en route to River Plate’s Monumental stadium, subjecting the visiting squad to tear gas and forcing captain Pablo Perez to hospital with an eye injury.

But the story behind that could yet be as gripping as the game itself.

A game already heralded as the ultimate Superclasico still had so many levels to go, the ferocious emotion perhaps inevitably spilling over, ensuring that a fixture already taken to its peak in terms of the stage it was to be played on was then taken to a peak in terms of everything happening around it: political intrigue, human drama and outright violence.

The main questions will revolve around exactly what pressure was put on Boca to play the match in the four hours between their bus getting attacked and the match finally - justifiably and logically - getting postponed. An hour before that eventual confirmation, Carlos Tevez and Fernando Gago went on Fox Sports Argentina to outright state “the presidents of Conmebol and Fifa are obliging us to play.”

The more searching questions will revolve around the hugely controversial questions that led to this. Not to mention the argument that River probably wouldn’t even have been in the final had Conmebol followed their own precedent on three transgressions that took place around the semi-final with Gremio, when suspended manager Marcelo Gallardo somehow getting into the dressing room to give a team talk.

The South American federation at least finally showed some consistency of logic in postponing this match, but that should not spare severe criticism of this utter farce and embarrassment of an occasion.

Its great spectacle only saw everyone make a spectacle of themselves.

This was an afternoon of so many striking images. There was the smashed Boca bus, the police firing tear gas, violence outside the stadium and then players of such renown as Tevez visibly wretching as they walked towards the dressing room.

That was all the result of the attack on the bus that took place shortly after 3pm, and first called into question the very logistics around travelling to this final, let alone just staging it. Why did the Boca bus go down Monroe Street, an area where it was known there would be so many River fans?

The bus made it to the Monumental, but one of the players did not stay there. Pablo Perez had to go to hospital, with an injury to his eye. There were also reports that Gonzalo Lamardo joined him. By that point in the away dressing room, many of the Boca players and officials were complaining they were not fit to play.

This was when the long wait really started, and everything got so complicated, not least to the amount of voices around.

It very quickly became apparent that the main authorities - Conmebol, Fifa, the broadcasters, and even the office of president Mauricio Macri - wanted the game to go ahead. On top of all of the issues like the embarrassment of the game getting delayed and the logistics, there was the fact it was already scheduled for this Saturday - rather than Wednesday 29 November - because the G20 summit is taking place in Argentina on Thursday.

The authorities had a quandary themselves. Did they do what was sensible and postpone the game, but face the logistical nightmare of 70,000 dissatisfied River fans having to leave and global embarrassment? Or did they press ahead for short-term gain, and face a long-term fall-out from what would have been justifiable Boca complaints.

This was the tension inside the walls of the stadium.

Out in the stands and on the pitch, there was at that stage a strange calm, with rock songs like ‘Bad Moon Rising’ being played at a lower volume as if to consciously soothe fans who were by now getting word that the match might be postponed.

Then, just at 4.45pm, there was the first of four statements confirming the game would be put back. This one was very carefully worded, indicating the match would take place “not before 6pm”.

It was just after 5pm that it was confirmed the game would be going ahead, only for Boca official Marcelo London to publicly emphasise how difficult this was for his team.

With so many intense talks going on, Osvaldo Pangrazio - the president of Conmebol’s medical commission - was brought in to assess whether there was any medical reason the match could not take place. All manner of information then swirled around, until an official letter confirmed that Pangrazio stated there was no such reason.

“From a medical point of view, there exists no cause for the suspension of the encounter,” it read.

This was when Boca began to properly get out information of their own, as a picture was released of Perez’s face with a bandaged eye.

“We’d come to play a match and we found a completely different situation,” London said. “It’s shameful.”

But still the pressure was there. Still the talk was all the powers wanted this seismic fixture played that night.

It was then that Tevez and Gago let that be known, as they appeared on Fox Sport Argentina.

“Well, first of all, just to let our families know we’re fine,” Tevez said, the very words only adding to the drama of it all, and reflecting the seriousness of the situation. “There are only three or four players who have injuries, but first of all to our families, we can’t communicate with them from the dressing room, that makes it even more difficult with all of this, to talk to our families?”

Tevez was then asked whether Boca were in a condition to play.

“No, no… it’s a situation where they’re obliging us to want to play. I don’t see it, Pablo with something in his eye, with our teammate as well, they’re obliging us to want to play, so we’re waiting?

“There are many players who were coughing, feeling like they’d vomit. My throat hurt me a lot, and in the last hour I’ve had a headache.”

Remarkably, Perez was at that moment coming back to the Monumental.

“It’s difficult to concentrate,” Tevez said, as the entire world focused on what was happening in the hidden rooms of the stadium, away from the cameras.

“If we have to play, we’’ll play, but these aren’t the conditions to play,” Gago added. “The presidents of Conmebol and Fifa want us to play.”

Gallardo was supposedly willing to support Boca in whatever decision they took, but Tevez wasn’t quite so conciliatory. He complained that “not a single player from River” went to check on their fellow professionals.

The vibe at that point was that the game would go ahead, under the force of so much major political influence, but with Boca effectively protesting about.

The potential for a very ugly aftermath was high, to go with what seemed set for an ugly game.

It was just as well there were no Boca fans in the stadium, specifically because of the potential for all of this, and the reports of rubber bullets being fired at River supporters outside.

The music started to ratchet up then, though, as ‘Shook Me All Night Long’ was played so much louder and the red-and-white bunting theatrically came down.

The refs were warming up, everything was heating.

There were then two final twists, only adding to the bizarre theatre of the day.

It was confirmed that Perez would be starting - despite having just come back from hospital - only for the match to immediately be suspended.

The day finished as it started, with utter chaos.

And yet there was Conmebol president Angelo Dominguez still - somehow - presenting a perception of decorum.

“There was a gentleman’s agreement between the presidents of the two clubs,” Dominguez said. “One did not want to play, and the other did not want to win in these circumstances.”

But it seems the controversy from the “final to end all finals” is really only starting.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 376 ========

COPA LIBERTADORES: RIVER PLATE VS BOCA JUNIORS, AS IT (DIDN’T) HAPPEN

The Copa Libertadores final was postponed to Sunday after Boca Juniors players were injured when their bus was attacked by River Plate fans.

CONMEBOL President Alejandro Dominguez announced the decision on Saturday, 10 minutes before the final was supposed to start.

Dominguez met with club directors and FIFA President Gianni Infantino. Relive all of the drama below.

Key Points Match abandoned after Boca team bus was attacked

Final rescheduled for Sunday evening, 5pm local time (8pm GMT)

Preview

What time does it start?

River Plate vs Boca Juniors kicks off at 8:00pm (GMT) on Saturday 24 November.

Where can I watch it?

River Plate vs Boca Juniors will be shown live on BT Sport 2 from 7:45pm (GMT).

BT Sport subscribers can stream the game live via the BT Sport app.

The match is also being aired on FreeSports.

Player to watch…

Lucas Pratto: The 30-year-old striker was River’s best player in the first leg, scoring their first goal and contributing to the own goal which means the sides head into Saturday’s finale level. The Argentine, who has five caps for his country, has scored four goals in 13 appearances in this year’s competition, and his partnership up front with Rafael Santos Borre could well be decisive in Buenos Aires.

Form guide…

River Plate: LLWWLD

Boca Juniors: WLDWDW

Odds…

River Plate to win: 11/10

Boca Juniors to win: 13/5

Draw: 39/20

Prediction...

River Plate 2-1 (4-3) Boca Juniors

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 377 ========

COPA LIBERTADORES 2018 FINAL SUSPENDED: MATCH OFF AFTER BOCA TEAM BUS ATTACKED BY RIVER FANS

The second leg of the Copa Libertadores final between Argentinian rivals Boca Juniors and River Plate has been suspended.

The match between the Buenos Aires rivals on Saturday evening was delayed twice after the Boca bus came under attack from River fans as it arrived at the stadium.

CONMEBOL, the South American Football Confederation, then decided to postpone the match entirely after the attack, which left two Boca players hospitalised.

The match will now kick-off at 17.00 local time on Sunday evening: 20.00GMT.

Television footage showed River supporters hurling objects at the bus as it made its way to the El Monumental ground.

Several windows were smashed with numerous Boca players suffering cuts from broken glass. Reports from local news outlets also claimed that some players were taken ill due to the effects of tear gas, used by police to help disperse the crowds.

After the incident, Carlos Tevez said that Boca Juniors were “not in a condition to play” the second leg of the Copa Libertadores final.

“We are not in condition to play. They're forcing us to play the game,” Tevez said on FOX.

Boca players Pablo Perez and Gonzalo Lamardo both had to be taken by ambulance to hospital, the former with slivers of broken glass in his eyes and the latter a cut on his head.

The bus driver, meanwhile, was reportedly knocked unconscious after being hit by a rock.

General secretary Christian Gribaudo was quoted as saying by the website of Argentinian newspaper Clarin: "The players are all injured, you can't play likes this."

Former Argentina striker Gabriel Batistuta branded the scenes "shameful", saying on Twitter: "Another opportunity lost in front of the whole world that observes us, shameful, lamentable."

Boca's former Real Madrid midfielder Fernando Gago also expressed his unhappiness that the game looked set to go ahead, saying: "I can not believe it, I was very surprised. Many players suffered, I had an allergic reaction and there were players who had a hard time breathing.

"We have no choice. If we have to play, we are going to play."

Saturday's violence came three years after the second leg of a Copa Libertadores last-16 tie between Boca and River was abandoned at half-time after Boca fans attacked the River players with pepper spray as they returned to the pitch after the interval. Boca were disqualified from the competition.

The final is finely poised at 2-2 after the first leg two weeks ago.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 378 ========

MAURICIO POCHETTINO URGES TOTTENHAM TO BUILD ON THEIR STYLISH VICTORY OVER CHELSEA AT BEGINNING OF CRUCIAL RUN

Mauricio Pochettino told his Tottenham players to use this evening’s thumping of Chelsea as an “example for the future”, and that if they do so then “all is possible” for them.

Spurs started the biggest week of their season in a perfect way, beating Chelsea 3-1 at Wembley in a game they should have won by far more. Now they host Inter Milan on Wednesday night, needing a win to keep their Champions League hopes alive. Then they travel to Arsenal on Sunday for the first north London derby of the season.

Speaking in his post-match press conference this evening Pochettino did not want to say that this was Spurs’ best performance of the season, even though most observers believed that it was. But he was thrilled with the application and mental approach of his players, and now he hopes that they maintain it for the rest of the week.

“The attitude and desire, a lot of the time we miss it in many important games,” Pochettino said.

“But to compete in this way, the tactics and system are not important, but the attitude and the will were fantastic. Now the challenge for us is to keep the level of competition. And to use as an example for the future. We have in a few days another final, and then Arsenal. With this attitude, all is possible.”

There have been times this season when Pochettino was not happy with his players’ performances but here he was delighted with how they approached the game. Spurs played with more ambition and desire than they have shown all year, especially against a top opponent. Pochettino wants this to continue.

“One thing we need to realise is that with attitude we can compete in this level,” he said. “When we struggle to show the real quality, we show a lack of aggressivity, will or attitude, and in that moment it is difficult to perform in the way that we performed today.”

Pochettino pointed to the example of Juan Foyth, who has come from nowhere to be one of Spurs’ best performers this month, to show that the whole squad are important and that Spurs are not just about their big names. “The confidence we have in him and the trust, that is why we put him in to play,” Pochettino said.

“And I think that today is about confirming a bit that it is not about the names on the pitch, it is about the right attitude. When you have 24, 25 playres, to tlak about names is unfair. It is the same with fans or people who have a predilection for some player. We need to assess and look after all players. We spend 12 hours every day with them.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 379 ========

INDY FOOTBALL PODCAST: WAYNE ROONEY, COPA LIBERTADORES AND ASSESSING JURGEN KLOPP'S TIME AT LIVERPOOL

On today’s show Jack Pitt-Brooke stays in caretaker charge and he is joined by chief football writer Miguel Delaney and ESPN’s Liam Twomey.

One third of the way into the Premier League season, they discuss the clearer distinctions of the Premier League table and whether Manchester City will start to pull away at the top. Is it unfair to judge Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool if they cannot catch them? Does he have to win the title to be a success there? And are Liverpool – like their rivals – waiting until Guardiola eventually steps aside in 2020 or 2021?

This is the international fortnight and so attention moves onto the Wayne Rooney Foundation International at Wembley on Thursday night. Is it a nice tribute to a great player? Or is it an embarrassing devaluing of what it means to play for England? And if Rooney is devaluing what it means to play for England, then what about all the other, lesser players to wear the shirt in recent years?

Then after the international break is the second leg of the Copa Libertadores final between River Plate and Boca Juniors, which Miguel is flying out for. He tells us what to expect and the special status the Libertadores still enjoys.

Click play above to listen to the latest episode, which is also available on iTunes, acast and all other podcast providers (if the audio is not appearing on your mobile, you may need to view on desktop or download the podcast).

And if you enjoy the show then please subscribe, rate and review the pod to help us find like-minded souls. Thanks.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 380 ========

ENGLAND’S CONFIDENCE BACK TO WHAT IT WAS IN 2016, SAYS JAMIE GEORGE

Jamie George believes England have recovered the “inner belief” that marked their early days under Eddie Jones following an encouraging autumn series which saw the side win three out of four Tests.

After recording their worst-ever finish at the Six Nations Championships earlier this year – followed by the series defeat in South Africa – England are now back in the ascendancy, having beaten South Africa, Japan and Australia over the course of the past month.

And while Jones’ men may have been denied an historic win against New Zealand, losing 16-15 at Twickenham, such a narrow defeat reaffirmed the progress made by this side following a difficult 2018.

Now, with the autumn series over - rounded off by the 37-18 win over Australia - it seems the feel-good factor is back.

When asked whether the feeling that marked England’s 2016 season – in which they clinched the Six Nations title and recorded a series whitewash in Australia – had returned to the side, Saracens’ George was clear in his response.

“There’s a very similar feeling yes,” he said after Saturday’s victory. “I think it’s just that confidence, that inner belief. It’s difficult to put a word on it – there’s an edge to us personally. You can see that they’re doing everything they can and you’ve got so much confidence in the people around you. You know that we’re doing something special and there’s a similar feeling.”

George, who was given the nod ahead of veteran Dylan Hartley for Saturday’s showdown at Twickenham, also offered his take on the series as a whole.

“We’ll look back at the autumn now pretty happy with how it went,” he said. “Obviously we’d have loved to have gone four from four and there was an opportunity to do that but the team is building into a nice place now and there are a lot of positives to take from it and on reflection I think we did pretty well and it’s an exciting time.

“We’re in a really good place, we’re building really nicely and that’s what we just said in the changing room now. Owen [Farrell] spoke and said the feeling that we’re getting is so positive at the minute and I think the way that we’ve developed from the South Africa week to now is huge and so exciting. We’re desperate to get back into camp and our focus is already on Ireland.”

However, the hooker admitted that his side still have much to learn ahead of next year’s Six Nations opener against the Irish – but added that he and his teammates were relishing the opportunity to further improve.

“We’re in a good place, we’re not in an amazing place so we’ve got room to grow but the mentality of the group is we’re desperate to get better so there’s sort of an edge to us at the moment that I’m really enjoying.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 381 ========

ENGLAND VS AUSTRALIA PLAYER RATINGS

====== 382 ========

ENGLAND VS AUSTRALIA: FURIOUS MICHAEL CHEIKA RAGES AT 'LUDICROUS' OWEN FARRELL TACKLE DECISION AFTER DEFEAT

Michael Cheika hit out at the “ludicrous” decision not to punish Owen Farrell with a penalty try for a shoulder charge on Australia lock Izack Rodda, with the Wallabies head coach furious at referee Jaco Peyper’s justification for not referring it to the TMO.

The first half of England’s 37-18 victory over Australia ended in controversial scenes as Farrell hit Rodda with a shoulder-first tackle similar to the one that caused so much outcry in the victory over South Africa at the start of the month. The fly-half stopped Rodda on the England try line with what appeared to be a shoulder charge, which mirrored his tackle on Springboks replacement Andre Esterhuizen three weeks ago.

On that occasion, Farrell went unpunished after a TMO review deemed it legal, but this time around South African referee Peyper did not even refer it, instead explaining to Wallabies captain Michael Hooper that it was a fair challenge because Rodda also lowered his shoulder for the contact.

“The justification that Rodda tried to take him on with his shoulder is ludicrous,” raged Cheika after Australia’s sixth consecutive defeat against England. “That’s what the referee said. That’s what you do when you carry the ball.”

Cheika was among the coaches who attended a World Rugby referees’ meeting at the start of the autumn test window, and he revealed that Farrell’s previous tackle on Esterhuizen, which was allowed by Australian referee Angus Gardner, was brought up for referral.

“I went to the referees’ meeting they had here in the first week before the Wales game, and they referred back to the Owen Farrell tackle against South Africa,” Cheika added. “The referees left Angus Gardiner out to dry by saying that that should have been a penalty in front of all the coaches. And if that’s a penalty, this is three penalties.”

Cheika’s mood will not improve when he re-watches the match given that Sky pundits Sir Clive Woodward, Will Greenwood and Michael Lynagh all agreed that it should have been a penalty try, with Farrell also at risk of seeing yellow.

England coach Eddie Jones continued his policy of not discussing decisions made by officials though, adding: “I just accept whatever decision the TMO makes and that is the end of it. We have had some good decisions, we have had some bad decisions, we just accept them.”

But Cheika was in no mood to accept the decisions.

“We had three tries disallowed and not one sent for referral,” he added. “Maybe we need to move Australia to the Northern Hemisphere.”

The incident proved a turning point in the match as although a resulting Matt Toomua penalty for offside sent the teams in level, England scored 24 unanswered points after the break to pull away before a late Israel Folau consolation.

But it was not the only decision that frustrated the Wallabies coach, with Dane Haylett-Petty’s disallowed try for a forward pass and a similar call on Hooper late on also gaining his attention.

“There’s still 40 minutes of the game to play which we can manage and control,” Cheika said, “and we didn’t do that. I thought we kicked the ball way too much. We did score two other tries as well but whenever it went back to some type of referral … look, England won the first one that he said was a forward pass. He’s (Peyper) now supposed to say ‘is it a try, yes or no?’ That’s the way that this season with the TMO is being managed here in the northern hemisphere; the first time we’ve been playing with it.

“None of that happened. The ball went out of his hands backwards, as did Hooper’s one. It goes backwards out of his hands and goes forward. They’re the rules – I don’t think they’re the right rules but they’re the rules – and they didn’t even stop to look at them.”

It ended an autumn campaign for England that has been largely positive results-wise, with three wins and a one-point defeat by the All Blacks giving Jones plenty to work with ahead of next February’s Six Nations.

But it could have been a very different story given that England were once again off the pace in the first half as they were last weekend against Japan, though the England coach was keen to praise the country of his birth for that.

“We knew Australia would be tough today, they have had a tough year and all the shenanigans off the field generally brings a side together, so they were always going to be at their best,” he said. “First half we had opportunities to get bit further ahead than we were, we missed those, allowed them back into the game and they got a bit of confidence.

“Second half we were able to regroup, play in a real English way and I was really pleased with that.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 383 ========

SRI LANKA VS ENGLAND: ADIL RASHID CONJURES CAREER-BEST FIGURES TO LEAVE HOSTS IN A SPIN

Adil Rashid and Ben Stokes combined in compelling fashion as England grappled the initiative from Sri Lanka on day two of the second Test, setting up the prospect of a series whitewash in Colombo.

From an imposing position of 173 for one shortly before tea the hosts lost nine wickets for 67, bundled aside by Rashid's career-best haul of five for 49 and a lung-busting three-wicket burst from the indefatigable Stokes.

That guaranteed England an improbable first-innings lead of 96, extended by three as Rory Burns and Keaton Jennings fended off four overs before stumps.

Sri Lanka were left dizzy by the speed of developments at Sinhalese Sports Club, one moment basking in the biggest stand of the series - 142 between Dimuth Karunaratne and Dhananjaya De Silva - and the next fighting for a foothold in a game that had been ruthlessly ripped away from them.

England captain Joe Root had been curiously reluctant to use Rashid and Stokes, who bowled just one of the innings' first 41 overs between them. Once unleashed, they threw themselves into the spotlight, Rashid's leg-spin accounting for both of Sri Lanka's set batsmen before he added three more scalps and a direct hit run-out for good measure.

For his part, Stokes defied the oppressive heat and humidity to turn in an exhausting 10-over stint either side of tea, hammering Sri Lanka with fiery, short-pitched bowling and bringing an element of menace no other seamer has been able to muster throughout the trip.

The day began with England frittering away their final three wickets for 24 runs in well under half-an-hour. Moeen Ali and Jack Leach both picked out the safe hands of Angelo Mathews off the bowling of Dilruwan Perera, with Broad completing Lakshan Sandakan's five-wicket haul with a clumsy duck.

A total of 336 looked a little underpowered on a decent surface but an early slice of Jennings' brilliance at short-leg got England up and running in the field. He showed bravery and instinct to follow Danushka Gunathilaka as he advanced down the track at Leach, mirroring the batsman's steps to leave himself perfectly placed to gather a thick edge.

After two remarkable interventions in Kandy, this was another one for the scrapbook but the trail soon went cold for England, Karunaratne (83) and De Silva (73) chipping away at the arrears over the course of 36 energy-sapping overs.

That the pair were allowed to linger so long and so profitably lay at Root's door. He dropped Karunaratne on two, Broad finding the edge in a lively new-ball spell only for Root misread the trajectory at first slip and parry a catchable chance for four off his wrist. He later spilled De Silva on 42, losing control despite wrapping both hands around the ball, with Broad again unfortunate.

They were costly misses, particularly with Moeen and Leach struggling to summon their muse, and both men seemed set to hammer home the point until the belated introduction of Rashid struck gold.

De Silva fell late in the afternoon, turning Rashid to the waiting Jennings. At 183 for two at tea, Sri Lanka still held the balance of power, a position they soon surrendered under a stern examination of wrist spin and pace.

Karunaratne followed a similar route to De Silva, giving away his hard-fought knock just after the restart as Rashid and Jennings combined for a regulation bat-pad dismissal.

The batting side never looked settled again. Stokes, tearing into the crease and hammering the old ball into the middle of the pitch, had already slammed Karunaratne's ribcage when he got his first tangible rewards. A mis-timed pull canonned off the toe of the bat and was well held by Ben Foakes.

The 27-year-old kept pounding away, defying clear signs of weariness to see off Niroshan Dickwella with a strangle down leg and Perera with a ball simply that rapped the gloves as it hurried through.

Rashid's wiles were more cerebral. A googly deceived Roshen Silva, allowing Jennings to take a stunning one-handed catch and move his tally to four in the innings, and a big leg-break to Kusal Mendis offered Stokes catching practice at slip.

Rashid also effected the run out that caught Sandakan short - off the bowling of Stokes, predictably - and pinned Malinda Pushpakumara lbw to wrap things up.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 384 ========

SRI LANKA VS ENGLAND: JONNY BAIRSTOW HITS OUT AT CRITICS AFTER DAY ONE CENTURY

Jonny Bairstow scored a brilliant century before rounding on those who he perceives have "castigated" him during his period on the sidelines.

Bairstow, who returned to the side for the third Test against Sri Lanka after missing the first two matches of the series with injury, scored 110 to bat England into a promising position on day one in Colombo.

The Yorkshire's celebrations on reaching three figures were as passionate as you're ever likely to see and speaking afterwards he didn't go easy on his critics.

"There are different things you go through when you get castigated about being injured doing X, Y and Z when people don't actually see what's gone on," he said.

"The bits behind the scenes, when you're doing your rehab when you're sleeping on an ice machine, the things that people don't see and yet they have an opinion on it.

"It's all well and good when it's going good and people have an opinion on how well you're playing, but it's the hidden things they don't see.

"People that don't sometimes see the hard work that goes on behind the scenes, people that sometimes have an opinion when they're sat at home and they don't see the hard work and the graft that goes on in the heat and humidity and all the other stuff.

"I'm proud as punch of myself and everything that I've done over the last few weeks because that injury potentially should have kept me out for six-to-eight weeks and I'm back in four weeks and playing in a Test match."

Bairstow admitted his annoyance at being sidelined has been put into perspective by the death of two friends.

He said: "These last couple of weeks there, there's a lot of people that have been in worse times than me. Two people back home that I knew passed away these past couple of weeks so it actually puts it in perspective.

"A lad that we played with on the academy at Yorkshire unfortunately passed away in his sleep, another friend of ours that we spent time with in Sydney passed away all of a sudden from a heart attack.

"It just shows that we're playing a game of cricket and people seem to have an opinion on that. We are playing a game, we're trying our best and putting it into perspective: that's something."

Bairstow, who said he was suffering with cramp as he moved towards three figures, once again reiterated he is not ready to hang up his wicketkeeping gloves, adding: "I've not given up my keeping, I want to make that very, very clear.

"I'm still working hard on my keeping and it's something I still want to do. I've worked hard for the last nine years and I'm not just going to give it up after missing two games."

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 385 ========

SRI LANKA VS ENGLAND: JONNY BAIRSTOW HITS DEFIANT CENTURY TO BAT TOURISTS INTO PROMISING POSITION ON DAY ONE

Jonny Bairstow laid emphatic claim to England's problem position at number three, scoring a wonderful century on an emotionally-charged return to the Test side.

Bairstow's red-faced roar as he reached three figures in the broiling heat of Colombo, bat cast aside and fists pumping the air, was one of the most expressive celebrations in recent memory and spoke volumes about the meaning attached to his battling 110.

In terms of the third Test against Sri Lanka, and England's hopes of a whitewash, it was a vital innings and formed the spine of a promising stumps score of 312 for seven, but for the 29-year-old it meant so much more.

An unfortunate ankle injury forced him out of the opener in Galle where a brilliant debut from Ben Foakes, his stand-in as wicketkeeper-batsman, resulted in his unwelcome omission when passed fit in Kandy.

With Foakes' smooth glovework guaranteeing an extended run in the team, Sam Curran's side strain forced Bairstow to settle for a recall as a specialist batsman in the vexed slot at number three.

Five others have batted there in 2018, with Tom Westley and Gary Ballance also unsuccessfully pitching for the job in the two years since Joe Root scored England's last Test century from first wicket down.

Bairstow has never courted the role, much happier to reside in the lower-middle order and devote equal attention to his keeping, but fate may have revealed it fits better than the gloves.

He got off the mark first ball with four through extra-cover, swatted a gloriously dismissive six over midwicket, swept tidily and punished errors in length. When he eventually departed, bowled leg stump by Lakshan Sandakan, he did so with a point proven and his future seemingly sewn up.

If he nursed any sense of injustice at being overlooked last time out he channelled it in just the right way, knuckling down for 186 deliveries and sharing in crucial stands of 100 with Root and 99 with Ben Stokes.

While the psychological demands of his knock were most obvious in the wide-eyed yell that accompanied his 100th run, the physical toll was apparent much earlier.

He battled with the apparent discomfort of cramp throughout the latter half of his stay, grimaced his way through several sweeps and runs but never dialled down the intensity of his focus in stifling conditions.

The day had started with Root extending his winning run at the toss to eight in a row, batting first for the third time in a row on the trip.

England lost both openers in the first hour, Rory Burns stepping away to cut Dilruwan Perera at the cost of his off stump and Keaton Jennings turning Malinda Pushpakumara obligingly to leg slip.

Brought together at 36 for two, Bairstow and Root proceeded to make a steady century partnership either side of lunch.

Frustrated by the Yorkshire duo and eager to strike again, Sri Lanka wasted both DRS reviews in the morning session - a caught behind shout off Bairstow's elbow and a poorly-judged lbw appeal against Root.

That meant no referrals were left when umpire Chris Gaffaney turned down a plumb lbw that would have landed Stokes a 14-ball duck or when Bairstow was trapped in front on 102.

Sandakan went at more than four an over but continued to check English progress, persuading Root to top-edge a sweep for 46 and having Stokes caught at slip. The all-rounder's 57 was a turbulent knock, including several moments of indecision, four boundaries and two cracking sixes.

A return catch from Jos Buttler gave Sandakan a fourth victim, with Perera accounting for Foakes late on. Moeen Ali was dropped at slip on two and 17, then overturned two lbws as he somehow survived to stumps alongside Adil Rashid.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 386 ========

WOMEN'S WORLD TWENTY20: ENGLAND BEAT INDIA TO SET UP FINAL WITH AUSTRALIA

Twin unbeaten half-centuries from Nat Sciver and Player of the Match Amy Jones carried England to an eight wicket victory over India in their World Twenty20 semi-final in Antigua.

England will now go on to face their oldest rivals, Australia, in the final on Saturday, after Australia thrashed the West Indies in the day’s other semi-final.

Speaking afterwards, a delighted Amy Jones said: “I’m probably not the best at showing my excitement, but I'm feeling very good right now - to finish it pretty convincingly, everyone is so, so pleased.”

Chasing 112, England lost both of their big-hitting openers, Tammy Beaumont (1) and Danni Wyatt (8) early; but they turned out to be the only wickets to fall in England’s innings, as Jones and Sciver played a difficult pitch with discipline and determination, sticking tightly to the plans laid out for them by England’s coaches.

“With [Assistant Coach] Ali Maiden and the batting coaches, we worked so hard looking at their bowlers and making sure everybody played to their plans with the safer places to hit their attack,” said Jones.

With Indian captain Harmanpreet Kaur persisting rigidly with a tight off-side field, both batsmen simply worked the vacant short midwicket area, running hard between the wickets to turn ones into twos and keep the run rate well under control, despite rarely finding the boundaries.

Jones and Sciver ran neck-and-neck throughout, and although Jones ultimately finished one run ahead, with 53 to Sciver’s 52, if ever there was a case for joint Players of the Match it was today.

“Nat was fantastic,” said Jones. “She came in and straightaway took the pressure off. I knew as long as we stayed in together we'd get the job done.”

Earlier it had been England’s spinners who had strangled India’s batting lineup, keeping them to a bellow-par 112 on a pitch where Australia had posted 142 earlier in the day to set the benchmark.

India got off to a strong start with their young superstar Smriti Mandhana dominating the powerplay as she raced to 34 off 23 balls, before being caught and bowled by left-arm spinner Sophie Ecclestone, diving low to her left.

Thereafter the run rate slowed to all-but a trickle, as Jemimah Rodrigues and Harmanpreet Kaur failed to find strategies to score off the spinners.

“Our bowlers were fantastic today - the spinners in particular,” said Jones.

Jemimah and Harmanpreet’s partnership was broken by the run-out of Jemimah, precipitating a collapse that saw India go from 88-2 in the 14th over to 112 all out in the final over - losing their last 8 wickets for 24 runs. Six of those wickets were catches, as India hit the panic button trying to generate some momentum as the match began to slip away from them.

Captain Heather Knight finished with eye-catching figures of 3-9, and goes into the next match on a hat-trick after finishing with two-in-two; but once again it was Kirstie Gordon, in her first international tournament, who was the pick of England’s attack, with 2-20 including the crucial wicket of Harmanpreet, who had scored a match-winning 62 not out when these two sides last met in the warm-ups, well caught by Nat Sciver in the glare of the floodlights.

The semi-finals sewn up, Australia now stand as the final hurdle in England’s quest to become double world champions, after their triumph in the 50-over World Cup at Lords last summer.

“It's a chance to really do something special,” said Jones. “I think as a team we've dealt with the pressure well so far in this tournament - so hopefully, one more win!”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 387 ========

ITALIAN FORMER WORLD TOP-50 TENNIS PLAYER DANIELE BRACCIALI BANNED FOR LIFE OVER MATCH-FIXING

Italian former world top-50 player Daniele Bracciali has been banned from tennis for life after being found guilty of match-fixing, the Tennis Integrity Unit (TIU) said on Wednesday.

Bracciali, 40, was found guilty by an Independent Anti-Corruption Hearing of match-fixing offences at the ATP 500 event in Barcelona in 2011. He was also fined $250,000.

Former Italian player Potito Starace was also handed a 10-year ban from any future involvement in tennis, and a $100,000 fine after being found guilty of match-fixing and associated offences at the same tournament. Both men will have the right of appeal through the Court of Arbitration for Sport.

“In a decision announced today, which follows a disciplinary Hearing held in London on 18-19 September, Prof (Richard H) McLaren found (Bracciali) guilty of match-fixing offences relating to the ATP 500 World Tour tournament in Barcelona in April 2011,” a TIU statement said. “He was also found to have facilitated betting relating to the Barcelona match.”

Bracciali is currently ranked 100 in the world in doubles. As a singles player he reached number 49 in 2006. Starace reached a career-high 27 in 2007. Starace, whose case was heard by the same tribunal, will be prohibited from attending any sanctioned events organised or recognised by the governing bodies of the sport.

The TIU is an initiative of the sport’s various governing bodies, the Grand Slam Board, the International Tennis Federation and the ATP and WTA Tours.

Reuters

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 388 ========

ROGER FEDERER IS UNLIKELY TO WIN ANOTHER GRAND SLAM TITLE IN 2019, CLAIMS RAFAEL NADAL'S UNCLE TONI

Rafael Nadal’s uncle Toni expects a tennis grand slam title to prove beyond Roger Federer in 2019.

The Swiss extended his all-time men's record to 20 slam victories by winning the Australian Open in January but suffered some unexpected losses during the rest of the season, finishing it ranked third.

Nadal, the long-time former coach of his nephew Rafael, believes the physical demands of best-of-five-set matches are likely to put the majors out of reach for 37-year-old Federer.

Writing in his column in El Pais, Nadal said: “What can we expect from 2019? I find it hard to see Federer lifting another grand slam cup.

“Obviously, I do not say it for his game, although I do say it for the toughness of the five-set tournaments. I have to confess that I said that on other occasions and the Swiss, repeatedly, surprised me.”

Alexander Zverev's ATP Finals title last weekend, with the young German defeating Federer and Novak Djokovic back to back, provided a tantalising glimpse of what might be to come next season.

The long-awaited major breakthrough for the next generation appears at last to be around the corner, and Nadal admits he has been made to reconsider his opinion on the matter.

“For some time I had my doubts about whether the youngsters would be able to overcome the game of Federer on grass, the one of Djokovic on fast courts and the one of Rafael on clay,” he added.

“And I had the impression that the change would be caused rather by the decline of some than by the attack of others. The final in London has made me think about it.

“For now, for the coming year, I trust in the full physical recovery of Rafael, I feel new episodes of his rivalry with Djokovic and, in general, a more open panorama with the definitive incorporation of the new generation.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 389 ========

VENUS WILLIAMS SETTLES WRONGFUL DEATH LAWSUIT WITH FAMILY OF MAN KILLED IN FLORIDA CAR CRASH

Venus Williams has agreed to settle a wrongful death lawsuit with the family of a man who died as a result of a car crash involving her last year in Florida.

Jerome Barson, 78, died after sustaining “massive” injuries in a collision with Ms Williams’ car in Palm Beach Gardens on 9 June 2017, though police subsequently cleared the American tennis star of any wrongdoing relating to the crash.

The terms of the settlement have not been disclosed and lawyers for both parties have not commented on the conclusion of the case.

Mr Barson was in the passenger seat of a car driven by his wife Linda – who was also cleared by police – which, according to a report into the incident, slammed into the side of Ms Williams’ car at 40mph at an intersection near her home.

The report claimed that an unidentified third vehicle illegally crossed Ms Williams’ path as she tried to cross a six-lane main road at a green light, setting off a chain of events that led to the crash.

Ms Williams reportedly told police at the time of the incident that she had been driving slowly and had not seen the Barsons’ vehicle prior to the collision.

Mr Barson was immediately taken to hospital but died as a result of his injuries two weeks later.

Asked about the incident during a news conference at Wimbledon the following month, Ms Williams described it as “devastating” before breaking down in tears.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 390 ========

ALEXANDER ZVEREV’S WIN AGAINST NOVAK DJOKOVIC PROVES NEXT GENERATION ARE FINALLY READY TO TOPPLE THE OLD GUARD

Alexander Zverev’s elation after the biggest win of his career at the Nitto ATP Finals in London on Sunday night was evident, but there was no chance of the 21-year-old going over the top as he looked to the future following his victory over Novak Djokovic.

“Just chill out a little bit,” Zverev pleaded when asked about the assertion by Djokovic, five times a winner of the year-end title, that the German was capable of surpassing his own records. “Oh, my God,” Zverev said with a laugh. “I’ve won one of those. He won five. He’s won, I don’t know, 148 titles more than me. Let’s not go there for now.”

Zverev’s victory, nevertheless, inevitably sparks debate about whether the long-anticipated toppling of the old guard at the top of the men’s game is actually underway. The two biggest tournaments in the final month of the season have been won by younger players – 22-year-old Karen Khachanov at the Paris Masters and Zverev in London – while some of their contemporaries have also made big strides this year.

Stefanos Tsitsipas, aged 20, who beat Djokovic in August en route to his first Masters Series final in Toronto, has climbed 76 places in the world rankings since January to his present position at No 15. Alex de Minaur, aged 19, who lost to Tsitsipas in this month’s “Next Gen” final in Milan, has been voted newcomer of the year by his fellow professionals after starting the season at No 208 in the rankings and finishing it at No 31.

“Us young guys, we’re coming through,” Zverev said. “We’ve got multiple years ahead for all of us. A lot of things can happen. A lot of things can change. I'll do everything I can to be on top.”

Meanwhile some of those approaching the tennis equivalent of middle age are also making their mark. Dominic Thiem, aged 25, played in his first Grand Slam final at this year’s French Open, while 23-year-old Kyle Edmund reached the semi-finals of the Australian Open and won his first title in Antwerp last month.

The younger generations, nevertheless, have yet to loosen the grip of the old guard on the sport’s biggest prizes. Of the last 55 Grand Slam titles, dating back to January 2005, only two have not been won by members of the “Big Five” of Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Djokovic, Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka. They are all now in their thirties, as are Juan Martin del Potro and Marin Cilic, the only gatecrashers on the Big Five’s exclusive Grand Slam party of the last 13-plus years.

Despite their other breakthroughs in the game, the younger men have yet to make a big impact at Grand Slam level. For example, Zverev’s best effort was a run to this year’s French Open quarter-finals, while Khachanov has not gone beyond the fourth round at a Grand Slam event.

The bookmakers, unsurprisingly, are not expecting a rapid change at the top: Djokovic, who in the last five months has won Wimbledon and the US Open and reclaimed the world No 1 ranking, is already a hot favourite to win the Australian Open in January, ahead of Nadal and Federer.

“Obviously they’re still going to be the guys to beat at the big tournaments,” Zverev said. “I will do everything I can to get better, to compete with them always. I feel like I’m doing that. But still, I have a lot of things to improve. I’m still very young. Hopefully next year I’ll be able to play better tennis than I did this year, even though it’s been a good year.”

In the immediate future much might depend on the fitness of the old guard. Djokovic, despite admitting that he had not felt at his best in recent weeks, appears to have overcome his physical issues, but Nadal has not played since a recurrence of his knee problems forced him out of the US Open, Murray is still going through rehabilitation following a hip operation in January and Wawrinka has not made a final since starting his comeback in January after knee surgery.

Federer continues to defy the years but has suffered some surprising losses of late. The 20-times Grand Slam champion says, nevertheless, that he is “excited for next season” and “very proud that at 37 I'm still so competitive”. Djokovic aims to build on “a phenomenal season that I have to be definitely very proud of” and Nadal wants to “keep playing tennis for a couple of years”. Murray, meanwhile insists that he is “feeling physically a little bit better every day” as he prepares for a busy start to 2019, having played only 12 matches this year.

In the women’s game the old guard has not been as dominant at the highest level, despite the continuing efforts of the remarkable Serena Williams. Angelique Kerber, aged 30, is the only current top 10 player not in her twenties. Since Williams won last year’s Australian Open the seven subsequent Grand Slam titles have been won by seven different players, five of them by first-time Grand Slam champions.

That group includes 20-year-old Naomi Osaka, who won this year’s last Grand Slam title at the US Open. In addition, four of the six most important events played on the women’s tour after Flushing Meadows were won by comparatively young players in Elina Svitolina (aged 24), Ashleigh Barty (22), Aryna Sabalenka (20) and Daria Kasatkina (21).

Williams, nevertheless, remains the favourite to win next year’s Australian Open. The men’s and women’s tours may have only just drawn to a close this year, but in less than two months’ time the battle of the generations will be renewed with perhaps even greater vigour than ever.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 391 ========

ALEXANDER ZVEREV BEATS NOVAK DJOKOVIC AND PULLS OFF BIGGEST NEW WAVE UPSET WITH ATP FINALS WIN

The takeover by the much-vaunted next generation has a long way to go but 21-year-old Alexander Zverev struck the biggest blow yet for the new wave when he beat Novak Djokovic 6-4, 6-3 here in London on Sunday to deny his 31-year-old opponent a record-equalling sixth triumph in the year-ending Nitto ATP Finals.

Zverev followed up his victory over Roger Federer on Saturday by delivering the finest performance of his career and becoming the youngest winner of this title since Djokovic claimed it for the first time in 2008. He is also the first German champion since Boris Becker in 1995.

“This is the biggest title of my career so far,” Zverev said afterwards. “This trophy means a lot, everything, to all the players. You only have so many chances of winning it. You play against the best players only.How I played today, how I won it, for me it's just amazing.”

Djokovic, who had been aiming to equal Federer’s mark of six year-end titles and to break his record as the oldest winner of the tournament, had utterly dominated the latter half of this season, winning Wimbledon and the US Open and reclaiming the world No 1 ranking from Rafael Nadal, but this looked like a match too far for the Serb, who admitted afterwards that he has not been in the best of health lately.

Zverev, long regarded as the best of the next generation, had already established his credentials by winning three Masters Series titles, but his repeated disappointments in Grand Slam tournaments had un raised doubts about whether he had it in him to succeed at the very highest level.

Might Ivan Lendl prove to be the man who turns Zverev into a Grand Slam champion, as he did Andy Murray? Zverev recruited Lendl to his coaching team this summer, though the first person the German went to embrace after this victory was his father, Alexander senior, who has coached him from an early age.

“My dad is the one that taught me the game of tennis,” Zverev said.“Obviously Ivan, with the experience he has on and off the court, is amazing. That helped me, as well, to play the two matches that I’ve just played back-to-back.”

There have been times since the start of Wimbledon when Djokovic has looked all but unstoppable, but this was an insipid performance by the world No 1. Since losing to Marin Cilic in the final at Queen’s Club in June, Djokovic has lost only three matches, but all of them have been against members of the younger generation in Karen Khachanov, Stefanos Tsitsipas and now Zverev.

Zverev beat Djokovic at his own game as he ground down his opponent with the relentless consistency of his ball-striking. The German served superbly, showed a willingness to attack the net and hit his volleys with confidence and precision.

Djokovic went into the final having not been broken in any of his 36 service games here, but Zverev, returning superbly, broke him four times. Djokovic made uncharacteristic mistakes, particularly in the latter stages, in what was a total turnaround from the meeting of the two men in the round-robin stage, when Zverev won only five games.

Twenty-four hours after sections of the crowd booed Zverev following his victory over Federer, when the German halted a point because a ball boy had dropped a ball, he proved a popular champion.

Zverev said he had not known what to expect from the crowd. “Yesterday I felt like I had done everything right, to be honest, by the rules and how it should have been, but the crowd reaction wasn’t too good to me,” he said. “Today the mindset was that I just wanted to enjoy being out there, I just wanted to enjoy competing and playing against the best player in the world.”

Neither player had looked in any trouble until Djokovic served at 3-4 in the opening set. From 30-30 he made two successive unforced forehand errors to drop his serve for the first time. In the following game Zverev hit three successive aces, netted a forehand on his first set point but converted the second when Djokovic hit a forehand beyond the baseline.

The statistics at the end of the first set told their own story of Zverev’s remarkable serving performance. The German dropped only four points on his serve and put 21 of his 24 first serves in court.

Djokovic was in trouble again in the first game of the second set. A service winner saved Zverev’s first break point, but on the second Djokovic lost the sort of point you would always expect him to win as his opponent worked himself into a position of strength before cracking a forehand winner.

Zverev immediately handed back the initiative by dropping serve with his only loose game of the match, but it was the most temporary of blips. When Djokovic served at 1-1 and 15-15 he netted a forehand at the end of a 27-stroke rally, after which he looked exhausted. Playing an ill-advised drop shot, which he netted, in the next rally indicated that he was feeling the pace and another missed forehand handed Zverev a second break.

Serving at 3-5, Djokovic went 15-40 down with a loose backhand, saved a first match point with a service winner, but then saw Zverev complete his victory with a majestic backhand winner down the line. Zverev fell to the floor in celebration before Djokovic came over to embrace him.

Djokovic, who said that Zverev deserved his victory, was later asked if his extraordinary efforts in the last half of the year had caught up with him. “Maybe a little bit,” he said. “Health-wise I haven’t been really perfect in the last three or four weeks.”

Meanwhile Mike Bryan became the competition’s oldest doubles champion when he partnered Jack Sock to a 5-7, 6-1, 13-11 victory over France’s Nicolas Mahut and Pierre-Hugues Herbert. Bryan, aged 40, had won the title on four previous occasions with his twin brother, Bob, who has been out of action since May with a hip problem. Mike Bryan and Sock also won Wimbledon and the US Open this summer.

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 392 ========

ATP FINALS: ROGER FEDERER DEFENDS ALEXANDER ZVEREV AFTER GERMAN BOOED OFF COURT IN LONDON

Roger Federer has defended Alexander Zverez after the German was booed off court at the conclusion of the pair’s semi-final at the ATP Finals in London.

Zverev stopped play midpoint in the second-set tiebreak after a ball boy accidentally dropped a ball.

It meant the point was rightfully replayed, but Zverev, who had been on a second-serve, benefited from being able to retake his first with which he aced Federer before wrapping up a straight-sets victory.

The partisan crowd, suspecting gamesmanship, broke into a chorus of boos after Zverev won, forcing Annabel Croft to intervene and tell them to “be more respectful” as she conducted her post-match interview with the 21-year-old who was visibly upset.

Federer leapt to Zverev’s defence, assuring him that he’d done nothing wrong, despite the vehement reaction from spectators at the O2.

“Sascha [Zverev] doesn’t deserve it,” Federer said. “He apologised to me at the net. I was like, ‘Buddy, shut up. You don’t need to apologise to me here’.

“He shouldn’t be apologising. He didn’t do anything about it. He just called it how it was. He felt it affected play. There is a rule that if something like this happens, obviously you replay points.

“It’s a bold move by Sascha to stop the rally because the umpire can just say: ‘Sorry, buddy, you’re in the rally. I don’t care. You lost the point. I didn’t see it.’

“That’s where I just wanted to double-check with the umpire, what is the situation. But not for a second was there a sportsmanship situation there.

“Booing, I never like it,” Federer continued. “We see it in other sports all the time, but in tennis it’s rare. So when it happens, it gets very personal and we take it very direct.

“It’s all good. It’s all good. I hope he doesn’t have a sleepless night. It’s not a big deal at the end of the day. I’m definitely not mad at him.”

The incident overshadowed what was otherwise one of the best victories of Zverev’s career, and he admitted afterwards that it took him some time to compose his emotions.

“I was really upset afterwards in the locker room, I’m not going to lie. I had to take a few minutes for myself,” Zverev said.

“But, you know, I hope the crowd and the people who were booing maybe look at what actually happened, maybe just realise that I’ve maybe not done anything wrong.”

Follow the Independent Sport on Instagram here, for all of the best images, videos and stories from around the sporting world.

====== 393 ========

ATP FINALS: ALEXANDER ZVEREV BOOED OFF COURT AFTER DEFEATING ROGER FEDERER IN STRAIGHT-SETS

Alexander Zverev beat Roger Federer in straight sets at the O2 in London, but was booed off court by the arena's pro-Federer fans after a point was replayed during the crucial second-set tiebreak.

The German was on his second-serve with the tiebreak on even keel at 4-4, but after a brief rally Zverev shouted and stopped play when a ball boy accidentally dropped a ball midpoint, which by the game's rules means the point must be replayed. It meant that Zverev reverted to having a first serve, from which he produced an ace, before going on to win the tiebreak and therefore the match.

The perturbing ending prompted the stunned O2 crowd to break into a rapture of boos, which Sue Barker labelled as "embarrassing", which visibly upset the 21-year-old German and marred one of his greatest wins to date.

After the match, Zverev said:

"First of all I want to apologise for the situation in the tie-break," Zverev said. "The ball boy dropped the ball and it is the rules we have to stop the point.

"I apologised to Roger at the net already, he said it is OK and it is in the rules.

"I'm sorry this happened, I didn't mean to upset anybody."

Annabel Croft was forced to try and contain the crowd, who clearly thought the German had acted out of gamesmanship rather than genuine distraction, by iterating the rules to them in the middle of her interview with Zverev as the boos continued. Croft was backed by both Boris Becker and Tim Henman who agreed that the crowd were misreading the situation in ugly fashion.

The incident somewhat overshadowed one of Zverev's most assured performances and one of the best wins of his career having perpetually failed on the grander stages, despite being lauded as the future of the modern game.

Zverev is now the first German player to reach the ATP Tour's season-ending finale since Becker in 1996 and will face Novak Djokovic in the final on Sunday after the Serbian world No1 swept aside South African Kevin Anderson in straight sets.

