9. Austen Chamberlain, who was out for 275 days between his resignation as secretary of state for India in July 1917, following his criticism of the Mesopotamian campaign (see no 8), and his appointment as minister without portfolio the following year. Thanks again to Allan Holloway.

10. Peter Mandelson: 292 days between resigning as trade secretary over his home loan from fellow minister Geoffrey Robinson in December 1998 and his return as Northern Ireland secretary in October 1999. Then had to wait seven years and eight months from his resignation from that post in 2001 to his return as business secretary under Gordon Brown in October 2008.

Not quite: George Young, who left cabinet as leader of the Commons in 2012 and was brought back to government 45 days later as chief whip when Andrew Mitchell resigned over plebgate – but as chief whip he was entitled to attend cabinet rather than a full member.

Paul T Horgan asked about the reverse, the longest interval between offices, and started with Winston Churchill, out of the cabinet between 1929 and 1939. Allan Holloway came up with a longer gap: William Wedgwood Benn, 14 years from being secretary of state for India in 1931 to secretary of state for air (as Viscount Stansgate) in 1945. He also noted two even longer gaps in the 19th century: Charles James Fox, 23 years between his second and third terms at the Foreign Office, 1783 to 1806; and Earl Grey, 23 years 242 days between resigning as foreign secretary in 1807 and returning as prime minister in 1830.

Next week: Unlikeliest cover versions, such as Slade’s version of “Nights in White Satin”

Coming soon: Worst deals in history, after Nigel Farage described the draft Brexit deal thus

Your suggestions please, and ideas for future Top 10s, to me on Twitter, or by email to top10@independent.co.uk

====== 880 ========

DOLCE & GABBANA'S CANCELLED CHOPSTICKS ADVERT SHOWS US ORIENTALISM IS FINALLY BEING TAKEN SERIOUSLY AS A FORM OF RACISM

Dolce & Gabbana has recently faced backlash across China after the company posted a racist Instagram video that portrays a Chinese woman as a demeaning stereotype.

The two-minute video, which has since been deleted but posted anonymously onto Youtube, shows a Chinese model struggling with chopsticks to eat a pizza, pasta and a cannoli. It is laden with gaudy Chinese decorations in the background, an erhu playing loudly throughout, and the model feigns a child-like demeanour. Despite what some have claimed, the video is clearly not an homage to Chinese culture – but instead a racist depiction of the white West’s orientalist perception of Chinese culture.

Further worsening the situation, Stefano Gabbana defended the video in leaked Instagram private messages by referring to Chinese people as “ignorant dirty smelling mafia” and implying Chinese people eat dogs.

This video and the ensuing debate, elucidate greater issues regarding white neo-colonialist desires to excavate China’s wealth, degrading portrayals of east Asian women and a fundamental misunderstanding of what orientalism is.

Postcolonial theorist Edward Said coined the term orientalism, explaining it as “the way that the West perceives – and thereby defines – the East”. Jenn Fang, an Asian American race and feminist blogger behind the well-respected blog Reappropriate, wrote that the white West is “the norm, the standard, the centre, the fixed point around which the rest of the world orbits”. She added: “The East is, by contrast, the ‘Orient’ ... the exotic, the foreign, the Other defined specifically by its deviancy from the … western norm.”

Dolce & Gabbana’s video is therefore emblematic of this white western construction of what “Chinese culture” is to them – a hyper-sexualised Chinese woman against a background of exotic and kitschy imagery. In the video, the Chinese actress makes exaggerated motions, fumbles with her chopsticks in a childish manner and giggles while daintily covering her mouth. At one point, while she tries to eat a large cannoli with chopsticks, the male narrator suggestively asks in Chinese: “Is the cannoli too big for you?”

As is painfully exemplified in this video, east Asian women – and all women of colour – are infantilised sexual objects to be dissected and consumed by the white gaze. This racial fetishisation has violent consequences - Black, Latinx, Native, and Asian women are sexually assaulted at far higher rates than white women are.

On Friday, Dolce & Gabbana released an apology claiming to “respect” Chinese people, coincidently only after consumer backlash in China and major Chinese online shopping outlets removed Dolce & Gabbana’s products. Interestingly, this apology demonstrates another facet of this issue – neo-colonialism – which is the modern-day practice of white first world countries using their wealth and power to not only exert control over third world countries, but also to excavate wealth from these countries.

White western people and companies such as Dolce & Gabbana feign a respect for China, not because they believe Chinese people are actual human beings deserving of respect, but instead because they are trying to make money from the country’s people, while at the same time, happily reducing them to demeaning oriental caricatures to be gawked at.

====== 881 ========

MATTHEW HEDGES' CASE SHOULD PROMPT THE WEST TO RECONSIDER WHO ITS ALLIES ARE

Even if Matthew Hedges were some sort of spy – a notion universally regarded as preposterous by all who know this young academic – a life sentence would be an unduly harsh punishment for such an offence. The United Arab Emirates, and the government of Abu Dhabi, the emirate in which his trial took place, have publicly provided no evidence to corroborate their case, and it would have had to be grievous indeed – a clear and present danger to the security of the state – for such a sentence even to be contemplated.

It may well be, as the UAE states, that Mr Hedges’ case was considered over the course of one month and by three judges evaluating what they say is “compelling evidence” in three hearings. However, the sentence is disproportionate, and the trial, in an alien land with limited access to the kind of legal resources he would have at home, far from satisfactory.

Even states that boast the toughest methods for dealing with foreign agents – North Korea, Iran, or Israel, say – such a sanction as a life sentence is seldom used in earnest. Captives are used as bargaining chips. Even the terrorists sometimes set their hostages free. The UAE, avowedly a civilised state, proposes to have Mr Hedges, aged 31, die in jail.

If only for that reason, Mr Hedges has an undeniable case for clemency, and one that is being actively considered by the Emirati authorities. It is hardly surprising that his wife, Daniela Tejada, says he has been suffering suicidal thoughts and is in poor physical and mental condition. The prospect of being incarcerated at the pleasure of the emir indefinitely is, as it is reported Mr Hedges feels, terrifying. So it is time for the ordeal to end.

It would be insupportable even if he had been caught red-handed. As things stand we have an innocent man tried unfairly and landed with a prison sentence usually reserved for murder or acts of terror by a hostile regime or group. But Mr Hedges is a British citizen, and Britain is a long-term friend of most of the Gulf States, with sentimental, military and political ties dating back to their liberation from the Turks with British assistance a century ago.

Of course, the Hedges case again begs the question of how close the UK should be to the UAE and their allies in Saudi Arabia. Their woeful record on human rights is well known, and only highlighted by the plight of Mr Hedges. The way they have prosecuted their proxy war with Iran in Yemen has been universally condemned. It threatens perhaps the greatest famine in recorded human history – according to the United Nations agencies some 14 million are already dependent on UN food rations. As the “allies” – the Saudis and Emiratis – tighten their stranglehold on this dirt-poor nation the prospect of an unprecedented tragedy draw near.

What, one wonders, do the princelings of the Gulf want for their countries' reputation abroad and stability at home? The murder of Jamal Khashoggi, recorded in its entire grisly horror by the Turkish secret service, has inflated incalculable damage on Saudi Arabia’s image, even with her staunchest allies. So does the blockade of Qatar, and the sponsorship (official or not) of terror organisations throughout the region to pursue the feud with Iran (and the Iranians can be just as ruthless in their approach).

So it is greatly to the credit of foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt that the quiet, insistent, dignified diplomacy that he and his staff have exercised on the UAE has at least made the state look again at its actions. The coming days may being better news, but the time has come when the British, the Europeans and the Americans must also look to the way that they have supported these “friendly” governments. Even George W Bush and Condoleezza Rice, reaching back to a previous era of western foreign policy, thought that encouraging the Saudis and the UAE to adopt a more liberal and democratic way of life would benefit their own citizens and those around them. Now is the moment, with the rulers so badly embarrassed by events, that influence can be leveraged to maximum effect, starting with the question of the terms and conditions of the supply of arms.

====== 882 ========

MANCHESTER ATTACK REPORT RAISES SERIOUS QUESTIONS FOR THERESA MAY AND SECURITY SERVICES

Despite the headlines, much of the parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee report into recent domestic terror attacks does not concern individual operational failings by the security services. Those are serious enough, and worrying, but every organisation will, at some points, make a mistake or lack the resources to carry out some part of its job. It is not complacent to recognise that no law enforcement agency in history, even in the most totalitarian states, has enjoyed a 100 per cent success rate. By all accounts the security services have successfully thwarted many potential attacks through timely and decisive action.

It is true, though, that the case of Salman Abedi, the young man who murdered 22 people in the Manchester Arena bombing, with another 800 injured, raises difficult questions, and understandably. MI5, to its great credit, has admitted the errors it made in failing to monitor or act on Abedi, who was known to them. The Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament is scrupulous in the careful judgment it makes about the mistakes by the security agencies: “While it is impossible to say whether these would have prevented the devastating attack on 22 May, we have concluded that as a result of the failings, potential opportunities to prevent it were missed.”

The very precision with which that is stated only adds to its damning effect.

What is still more concerning are the areas where it would be quite simple for the authorities to close down gaping holes in legislation and regulation that allow the terrorists to operate with undue ease. For example, it is difficult to believe that, after decades of Irish, Islamist and far-right violence, the system for regulating and reporting purchases of the ingredients used to make explosives is, in the words of the report, “hopelessly out of date in dealing with the threat posed, and this facilitated the perpetrators in acquiring the materials they required”.

The government has since acted, but, as the committee underlines, continuous vigilance is required to ensure that these basic safeguards are enforced.

Long a problem in the war on terror are the attitudes of the tech companies, who provide the sometimes closed or encrypted messaging systems the terrorists can access to plan attacks. Of course, there are legitimate concerns about privacy and civil rights, but the resistance to transparency coming from the private communications systems providers stems from their own financial motives rather than some high-minded devotion to human rights.

As the committee states, “We have seen that appeals to these companies’ sense of corporate and social responsibility have not resulted in them making the changes required – and again these loopholes were used by the perpetrators of the 2017 attacks.”

A position where terrorists can freely plan complex operations with impunity is not tolerable. If the incentive of their responsibilities as “corporate citizens” is insufficient, as it appears, then hefty financial penalties should make them think again about cooperating with the intelligence agencies, with due democratic safeguards exercised by ministers responsible to parliament.

It is said routinely after terror attacks that lessons will be learned, but the committee finds that this is not in fact being followed with action. Where the committee itself has made strong recommendations in the past – ones that might conceivably have frustrated some of the attacks last year – they have been ignored. Why the government failed to act on them is not clear – no doubt Dominic Grieve and his colleagues will wish to ask them once again – but the criticism is so severe that the home secretary during the relevant timeframe – one Theresa May – ought to take some degree of responsibility for the dire fact that there might be British citizens alive or uninjured today had the bureaucracy worked properly or the political will been there. That is the biggest failing of all. It requires explanation, at least.

====== 883 ========

AMBER RUDD SHOULD MAKE TACKLING HOMELESSNESS HER FIRST PRIORITY AS WORK AND PENSIONS SECRETARY

Today, some 320,000 British people – equivalent to the population of a city such as Bradford or Cardiff – have nowhere to call home. The majority will be in “temporary” accommodation, such as B&Bs; others will be in hostels; the least fortunate will find themselves sleeping on the streets – about 5,000 of them. The total is up around 4 per cent on last year – which was already a high figure – representing one in 200 British residents.

The housing crisis has gone on for so long and been so severe that the country seems to have begun to think that it is a normal and acceptable state of affairs – an inevitability. It is, of course, nothing of the sort. Many other countries of similar wealth do not have such an experience. In past decades homelessness was much less common than today, particularly among younger people. Failure to take decisive action for so long has incubated institutional complacency, and a degree of public apathy, in a way that it has not, for example, over schools or healthcare. Free access to these is regarded as basic rights for a British citizen and their family. Why not a roof over your head?

Bodies such as Shelter, who are launching their Christmas campaign today, do much to deal with the results of the lack of investment in housing and the shortcomings in the social security system. The dark, cold, dank winter months are particularly hard on homeless people, and they need support now more than ever, and every homelessness charity, and those allied to them such as the food banks, is worthy of support – cash donations, gift of clothing, volunteering,

However, the voluntary sector is simply too small to be able to address the underlying causes of the year-round crisis, and is hardly in a position of authority to do so.

First thing’s first, then, and the new work and pensions secretary Amber Rudd has a clear mission to fix what she has acknowledged are the weaknesses in the universal credit system. It is a reform that has become so complex and underfunded that it risks inflicting still further damage on the health and wellbeing of the most vulnerable in society, and that includes driving them from their homes if they cannot access the housing benefits to which they are entitled in a timely fashion.

If universal credit cannot itself be reformed or paused then it should be scrapped, no matter the cost to the public purse so far. If Ms Rudd feels able to issue a guarantee to every recipient that they will be no worse off under the new system – and will have no undue waits for their entitlements – that would at least be a start.

There is much more to do. Since the era of Thatcherism in the 1980s, the supply social housing has collapsed. The existing stock was long since sold off, and local authorities, until very recently, prevented by law from investing the proceeds in new schemes. The austerity regime since 2010 has hit councils especially hard, and the fact that even Conservative-controlled shire authorities are going bust should indicate that something has gone very wrong indeed. Perhaps it was politically convenient for Westminster politicians to devolve austerity – and the blame for its consequences – to town and county halls, but it is a policy that has been deeply against the interests of every citizen.

Even after Brexit the pressures of demographic change will build, and the demand for housing will continue. It is the supply of housing that has driven prices and rents higher, and has pushed many out of the system. Increasing the supply of private homes, even with quotas for “affordable” places is rarely the answer for those with few resources of their own – no job, no money for a deposit, no money full stop.

Good-quality social housing was something that the British used to be good at, and the main parties used to compete with each other at general elections to see who could set the highest targets of new homes – half a million every year was typical in the decades after the Second World War.

Then it was needed to redress wartime losses and slum clearance. Today it is needed because there is so little left after the selloffs and the loss of funding. This time, though, the taxpayer should not be ripped off through a “right to buy” scheme that offers fortunate residents a hefty discount to buy something that is, in fact, the property of everyone. There is little point in building flats and houses simply to sell them off shortly afterwards. If that recurs then the social housing crisis, and the homelessness that lives with it, will never be resolved.

====== 884 ========

IN POTENTIALLY ALLOWING A FINAL SAY, THE SUPREME COURT HAS PROVEN ITSELF A FRIEND OF DEMOCRACY

With almost each day the Brexit crisis seems to grow more acute, interrupted only by occasional bouts of nervous exhaustion within the governing party.

The prime minister appears to have survived a cabinet meeting without suffering any further resignations and, for now, has avoided a vote of no confidence. This is what passes for success for Theresa May these days. She has, on the other hand, to cope with the vague threat of a veto from the Spanish for her draft UK-EU withdrawal agreement.

And, by the same token, with almost each day the case for a Final Say on the terms of Brexit, now they are known, grows in strength. The weakest of the objections – practicality – raised against having another referendum has no substance. There will be time for a Final Say. For one important obstacle to such a national verdict has been removed by the Supreme Court (formerly known as “enemies of the people” in some quarters), which has ruled that the government has no business trying to prevent a judicial review of the UK’s, and the EU’s, Article 50 legislation.

Obscure as the initiative that was taken some months ago via a Scottish court may seem, the fact that the question will now go to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) for adjudication is encouraging for anyone who feels democracy has not yet run its course on Brexit.

The substantive issue is a simple one: can the UK unilaterally withdraw Article 50? The relevant European Union treaty is silent on the point, as it is on most things to do with secession, because it was hardly envisaged that anyone would wish to quit the most successful multinational trading bloc in the history of the world. If, as seems reasonable, the ECJ rules in an expedited manner that the UK can indeed do so, then that closes off one of the arguments used by Brexiteers against a Final Say. Time will now be needed for a second referendum, and the UK, we may safely assume, will be allowed the possibility to have a vote.

The other side of the equation – the acquiescence of the European Commission, parliament and other member state governments – may also be assumed. All the indications are that while the EU would refuse any extension of the Article 50 timetable to facilitate yet more fatuous negotiations over the withdrawal agreement, set to be ratified by the European Council, there would be flexibility if it was to allow the British people to reflect on the actual Brexit they have before them. It may or may not constitute “the Brexit we voted for”, as it is sometimes said, but it is The Deal – the only deal available now.

It is interesting that the prime minister nowadays makes reference to the three options facing parliament: her Brexit; hard Brexit or no Brexit at all. In other words, the government explicitly allows for the possibility that, on their terms, Brexit can be “frustrated”.

This is going too far. All those who want a Final Say are asking for precisely just that. As they learn more about the withdrawal agreement, in its final treaty form, and they weigh up the political declaration on the future relationship between the UK and the EU, they will be able to sift the arguments for the first time in an informed manner.

No doubt some, on either side, will be ideologically committed to leave or remain – that is their right. Others will want to judge the balance of advantage of each option, for sovereignty, for jobs or for peace and security. Each voter will have their own agenda; which is why there never was some monolithic Brexit that everyone voted for. Many will not have changed their minds since 2016; others will have done so; still more will wish to vote in a referendum they missed last time, or will be coming onto the electoral rolls for the first time.

So it is hardly undemocratic to wish to have a further vote. The Supreme Court, not for the first time, has proven itself the friend of democracy, and the friend of the people.

====== 885 ========

WE CAN ONLY HOPE HUNT DOES A BETTER JOB THAN HIS PREDECESSOR IN IRAN

Jeremy Hunt, possible future Conservative prime minister (a very crowded field) and man whose immediate purpose in life seems to be repairing much of the damage done by his predecessor to the UK’s reputation abroad, arrives in Tehran with a clear message, delivered in plain language. Iran, he says, must not use dual-nationality British-Iranian citizens for the purposes of bartering political advantages: putting innocent people in prison cannot and must not be used as a tool of diplomatic leverage. He is right to do this, and if anything should have gone to Tehran even sooner, though of course such an invitation is at the pleasure of the ayatollahs. It will not be an easy mission.

Not the least of Boris Johnson’s many failures in high public office was his inability to secure the release of Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, the Iranian-British dual-nationality citizen serving time in Tehran for alleged spying. More than that, and unforgivably, Mr Johnson made matters far worse by blurting out at a Commons select committee hearing that she had been in Iran “training journalists”, rather than on holiday, and much closer to the Iranian charge sheet. Ms Zaghari-Ratcliffe does work for the Thompson Reuters Foundation, which does excellent work in the field, but she is of Iranian heritage, and had legitimate family business in the country in any case. Mr Johnson messed up her defence, and it is not surprising that her limited bouts of freedom since her incarceration three years ago have been just that – short, and painful.

Britain, in fact, has little quarrel with Iran, and certainly not with the Iranian people. Like the rest of the EU, the UK opposed President Trump’s spiteful decision to renew full sanctions on Iran and abandon the pact that was delivering some semblance of calm in Iran-western relations. The 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), which relieved sanctions on Tehran in return for an end to Iran’s military nuclear ambitions, remains almost the best hope for long-term peace from the Mediterranean to the Afghan border, second only to a (remote) Israeli-Palestinian peace treaty.

Perhaps Iran believes that the UK still has some mystical power of influence over the Great Satan in Washington. If that were ever true it is not now, and Mr Hunt should advise his hosts exactly that. They shouldn’t need much persuading that Donald Trump doesn’t really take any notice of anybody, nominally friend or foe. Mr Hunt is also going to take up the issue of the Houthi rebels in Yemen, Iran’s agents in one of a number of regional proxy wars against Saudi Arabia or Israel. One optimistic sign is that the rebels said they are halting drone and missile strikes against Saudi Arabia and its allies, after a request from the United Nations.

If his government had taken a stronger stance against UK arms sales to Saudi, that would have helped his case that the UK is not some sort of natural enemy of Iran.

The British do, however, occupy a special place in the pantheon of Iranian hate figures, the “Little Satan”. It dates back to the quasi-colonial era when British Petroleum (formerly the Anglo-Persian Oil Company) controlled Iran’s natural resources and British intelligence connived with CIA plotters to variously promote, back, control or destabilise various Iranian governments – with particularly bitter memories of the fall of prime minister Mohammad Mosaddegh in 1953 (for the “crime” of nationalising BP), and the western alliance with the shah, who was overthrown in the Islamic revolution nearly 40 years ago.

Again, Mr Hunt needs to show the Tehran government that Britain is a friend not a foe, and that its imperialist pretensions are long since abandoned. Some in that part of the world famously have long memoires and a liking for conspiracy theories. Any westerner is bound to be treated as a potential, if not an actual, spy.

The revolutionary guards that effectively run parts of the Iranian economy and still exert considerable political heft are responsible for the detention of Ms Zaghari-Ratcliffe, rather than the diplomats in the Iranian foreign ministry. So Mr Hunt’s entreaties may be sympathetically heard by his polite counterpart, Mohammad Zarif, but not directly by the hard men who matter in Iran’s complex power structures. All who wish for the release of Ms Zaghari-Ratcliffe, and other dual-nationals languishing in Iranian jails, should be aware that her captors have a reputation for ruthlessness.

====== 886 ========

THE US MILITARY IS USING VIDEO GAMES AND ESPORTS TO RECRUIT – IT'S DOWNRIGHT IMMORAL

At the end of the US army’s fiscal year this past September, the independent military news source Army Times reported that it had failed to meet its recruitment target by 7,500 bodies, despite offering up to $40,000 in bonuses, shorter enlistments and student loan repayments.

Last week, via a Reddit Ask Me Anything forum, the US military announced its intention to create a military-branded esports team and enter into a video games competition. The military said the team would be populated by active personnel, reservists and veterans, bringing together accomplished players of first-person shooter (FPS) video games like Call of Duty, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, as well as this year’s breakout title, Fortnite, to tour esports competitions. Their attendance will be shadowed by army recruitment officers.

Newzoo, a company that tracks intelligence in the digital games industry, estimates that by 2019, 427 million people will be playing video games. The military’s encroachment into such a burgeoning entertainment space, occupied largely by young people, poses a variety of serious ethical dilemmas.

There’s been recent controversy in the UK about the army’s ability to have a presence at secondary school career days. The UK is currently the only EU country to permit 16-year-olds to enlist and begin training. In 2016, the UN committee on the Rights of the Child strongly advised the UK government to “reconsider its active policy of recruitment of children into the armed forces” and “ensure that military recruiters’ access to schools be strictly limited”.

The message was clear. Let children be children. Last year, Marvel comics dropped a planned partnership with defence specialist Northrop Grumman after a severe backlash. It’s hard not to think the same kind of outrage is deserved when considering the US military’s forthcoming move into the esports space.

The military has been coveting the video game industry, even dipping into it from time to time, for decades. Between 2016 and 2017, the Australian Defence Force hosted a variety of playable virtual experiences on their website, proclaiming that participation would allow the player to “experience what it’s like to work in the Navy, Army or air force as an engineer”. Dave Anthony, a British former writer of the FPS titan Call of Duty, was even invited to Washington DC to join a group of military experts to discuss the future of warfare. The man coordinating the talk, former Pentagon official Steven Grundman, had reached out to Anthony after watching his son play Call of Duty: Black Ops 2, which Anthony wrote and directed, as Grundman was impressed by “the realism and authenticity” in the game.

The US military founded its own FPS as far back as 2002. Entitled America’s Army and conceived by Colonel Casey Wardynski, the army’s chief economist and professor at the United States Military Academy, the game has been transparent about its intentions from its very inception. The aim was, Wardynski said, to “use computer game technology to provide the public a virtual soldier experience that was engaging, informative and entertaining”.

The relationship between games and the military is being strengthened all the time. It’s rarely reported that makers of FPS titles have to pay a licence fee to weapons manufacturers in order to use their weaponry within their games. Both US and British armed forces have controlled attack drones with unbranded Xbox controllers in the past, blurring the lines between play and real-life bloodshed further. But surely the skills required on the battlefield are different to those needed to be successful in front of a PC?

“I don’t think they’re looking for the skill set as much as the receptiveness to the message,” Monash University ethicist, Professor Rob Sparrow told news.com.au. “If you’re fantasising about this stuff, it might seem plausible that you would be willing to do it in real life. The military is also aware that gaming is one of the main forms of media consumed by young people.”

Recruitment for the military within western countries is generally failing. Earlier this year, the British armed forces revealed that they were 4,000 bodies short of meeting their recruitment target, with private contractor Capita coming in for criticism from Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson, describing the company’s efforts as “pathetic” and a “national disgrace”. Capita had produced a series of expensive adverts that attempted to show the army as a progressive space, the animated shorts showing crying soldiers, mirroring the critique of “toxic” masculinity that has defined other media in 2018. Unlike their US counterparts’ blue-sky thinking, the Ministry of Defence has said they will now return to more traditional, localised forms of recruitment.

But with recruitment down – and, in the wake of lengthily conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as confidence in a military career at historic lows – the fear is that other armed forces outside the US will continue to bring glamour to entertainment fields like video games, looking outside of traditional recruitment techniques, in a bid to strengthen their ranks.

Video games are capable of such societal good. Recent research has suggested that playing video games can slow the natural breaking down of cognitive functions, increase accuracy within training surgeons and be as effective at treating depression as therapy. Even the US army uses games to combat soldiers’ PTSD. It would be a tragedy to use them to propagate bloodshed.

====== 887 ========

MPS SO FAR HAVE DONE AN IMPRESSIVE JOB WITH BREXIT. NOW LABOUR MUST GET ON BOARD

Labour must be careful not to be embroiled with those who wish to reverse the result of the EU referendum by telling the electorate to vote again in a manner reminiscent of Marie Antoinette’s telling the French people to eat cake. Marie Antoinette had her head chopped off at the guillotine; Labour will be slaughtered at the polls.

The 2016 referendum gave parliament one simple task: get the UK out of the EU. So far it has done its job. Article 50 has been triggered, the EU Withdrawal Act has been passed and a date set for leaving the EU. For a parliament with a majority on the Remain side, this is truly impressive. If MPs fail to complete the task by ensuring we leave on 29 March next year, and Labour has a central role to play in this, the whole Westminster setup will be brought into disrepute. People’s revenge will be subtle, but it may not be pretty.

It should come as no surprise to anyone that the proposed withdrawal agreement leaves a number of loose ends or that its accompanying political declaration is couched in inspirational language but they do not constitute a reason to reject the deal. The purpose of a deal at this stage is to provide us with the best possible start after we leave the EU. After more than 40 years of being entrapped within the EU and its institutions, it’ll not be possible to break out in one single giant leap; at the present time, a deal is but a first step, not the end result.

Fawzi Ibrahim

London NW2

Why waste more time?

If, as seems almost certain, neither May’s deal nor a no-deal Brexit will get sufficient support in the Commons, why waste more time in useless politicking? Why not have the parliamentary vote next week? If parliament then concludes that the only way out of the impasse is a second referendum with a simple choice of leaving the EU on May’s terms or remaining, then at least we have a plan.

A second referendum certainly does not need another 10 weeks of campaigning. Those with fixed views will vote as they did before; those on either side, who have taken an intelligent interest in the debate and have now changed their mind, do not need any more hot air from campaigners and the press. We will make our choice, the vote may well again be close, but no one can then argue that the public was ill-informed.

Please let us now just get on with it, so that governments both here and in the EU can get back to the important business of tackling serious domestic problems.

Gavin Turner

Norfolk

Pressing questions need answers

Instead of appearing on BBC 5 to answer a few questions, wouldn’t it be better for the prime minister to answer the public call for a final say on her Brexit deal with the EU? It is also imperative to know whether Brexit would lead to more antisemitism, Islamophobia, nationalism, populism, racial, discrimination, xenophobia and afrophobia? And why does she use European citizens as a bargaining chip in her negotiations with the EU?

Dr Munjed Farid Al Qutob

London NW2

Listen to the people

The prime minister rejects a second referendum on the basis that the first one must be respected. If the House of Commons rejects her Brexit deal, will she similarly respect this vote too and deny any rerun? As they have had longer to reflect upon their original decision, it is the people and not parliament who should be allowed a second vote.

Peter Mendenhall​

Nottingham

A worrying issue

That 22 per cent of young women aged 17 to 19 have an emotional disorder is yet more evidence of a growing crisis in girls’ and young women’s mental health.

This serious and accelerating deterioration should concern us all.

It is not enough to blame body image and social media. While they are rightly cited as possible explanations, they are not the full story.

The sexualisation of girls, the pressures they face around sex and particularly the alarming levels of sexual and other forms of violence they experience must be a key part of the conversation.

It is important to recognise the different drivers and experiences of poor mental health among girls and boys so that we can respond appropriately.

It is vital we see investment in mental health support that takes into account girls’ needs and experiences, including the impact of violence and abuse, in both schools and the community to ensure they get the support they need, when they need it.

Jemima Olchawski

Chief executive of Agenda, the alliance for women and girls at risk

We all have the right to die when we want

I agree with Angela Washington (letters) that the time for legislation on assisted dying is overdue. But is it not time to extend this to cover those who are not terminally ill?

It should be recognised that not all of us find life wonderful. Some, maybe even a majority of people who take their own lives, do it for rational reasons. How much better it would be for all concerned if they could plan their exit and “go gentle into that good night”.

We should all be able to imagine circumstances where we would no longer wish to be here, perhaps as the result of a terrible lifechanging event. Someone jailed for life, for good reason, might like to opt to end it if allowed to go with dignity.

We can admire those who survive adversity and have great lives thereafter, but those who have had enough of life should be respected and not expected to accept that things will get better for them. We all die.

Carol Wilcox

Christchurch

====== 888 ========

IF WE WANT TO COMBAT VIOLENCE AND KNIFE CRIME, COMMUNITY ARTS CENTRES NEED MORE FUNDING

My answer to most social ills tends to be: “We need more arts and community funding!” Under our current government, I want to scream this until my lungs explode.

I’ve been waiting for them to notice that the rise in violent crime among young people seems to have come a very short time after austerity and the brutal cuts to arts funding both in schools and in our communities.

Young people haven’t suddenly become intrinsically more violent. Rightful outrage at the increase in knife crime led to politicians shaking their fists in the air and proclaiming that they would get tough on these gangs and youths who carry knives. Home Secretary Sajid Javid declared earlier this month that he would make it easier for police officers to stop and search: “We will get the police to tip every young kid upside down and shake them until all their knives drop out.” (These may not have been his exact words.)

Theresa May, when she was in the Home Office, made stop and search trickier after it transpired that young black men were seven times more likely to get searched. I’ll be honest – if I was frisked every time I went to get a loaf and some Tic Tacs, I’d start to think that things were stacked against me. We can’t underestimate the psychological impact this has on a young person.

There must be a way to tackle gang and knife crime without making people feel like criminals when they have done nothing other than step out of their houses. If a kid is standing on a street corner at midnight polishing his harpoon then, yes, fair enough, politely enquire what he’s up to. We are not getting closer to changing the culture which leads to violence in the first place if all we do is stop and search.

Combating knife crime is clearly not just a matter for the police.

Ken Marsh, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, commented recently in The Independent that “violence can’t be tackled purely by police – we turn up when someone has been killed or seriously injured and there’s an awful lot that happens before that point”.

This is where the cuts come in. In 1995, I was part of a voluntary youth community theatre project which tackled the subject of homelessness after leaving care or prison. I was the only one in a group of 15 who hadn’t had personal experience of homelessness or prison (I know. You’re thinking, “then how did you get on the project?” What can I say? At 22 I was a shameless blagger). I saw first-hand what the impact is on young people who have already been written off as hopeless by mainstream society, and I saw how all that changed when these young people are given a purpose. It mattered if one of us didn’t turn up to the workshop. Our absence was felt, we were missed, and we were all an integral part of the project we were creating.

Everyone needs a purpose. They need to belong somewhere, and if all you have where you live is gangs and putting up a hard front and acting tough then that is what you will do.

Sajid Javid agreed with the mayor of London that it’s a long-term endeavour to eradicate knife culture: “If you’re trying to take children away from a life of crime, trying to deal with the challenges they have in their lives, that will take time. [Early] intervention is also something that should happen.” Yes, Sajid, yes! But that costs money and this government has slashed funding which used to be allocated to services that bind communities, and gives people somewhere to go and belong without it costing them.

More than 500 Sure Start centres have closed between 2010 and 2018, with budgets halved. If you’ve never used a Sure Start centre, it is a place where parents from all walks of life can come in with their children and spend time with one another, feel less lonely in many cases and get free advice from health and social care workers. Where do those parents get this support now? Where can young people hang out and just be themselves instead of emulating hard nuts in their manor? Or whatever the vernacular is now. I’m from the Eighties.

Local authority spending on culture has been cut by a third between 2009 and 2017. That’s more than a billion quid cut from arts funding. Arts and cultural activity are vital for human well-being – they are neither a luxury nor the preserve of the well-to-do.

Arts groups, theatre groups and mentors all empower young people to discover who they are. They give a sense of purpose, of belonging.

I recently had the pleasure of meeting Temi Mwale, founding director of The 4Front Project, an organisation which aims to support young people affected by violence and give them the resources and skills to resist being sucked into knife culture. The government should be funding projects like Temi’s if it is serious about saving our youth.

====== 889 ========

IT’S CRUNCH TIME, CORBYN. YOU NEED TO TALK ABOUT BREXIT – ‘CONSTRUCTIVE AMBIGUITY’ WON’T WORK AFTER THIS WEEKEND

“We’ll get him for this,” a Jeremy Corbyn aide snapped angrily when Keir Starmer defied the Labour leader by telling the party’s September conference that Remain would be on the ballot paper in any Final Say referendum.

The shadow Brexit secretary, deliberately going beyond the speech approved by Corbyn’s office, won an ovation in the hall, which showed where Labour members stand. His defiance, and the furious reaction in Team Corbyn, shows that divisions over Brexit are far from confined to the Conservatives.

Corbyn has done a pretty good job of masking Labour’s splits. His “constructive ambiguity”, designed not to alienate Remain or Leave voters, also helps to hold his party together.

It’s easier in opposition than government, of course. Corbyn can dodge questions that ministers cannot. On Thursday, he rightly criticised the political declaration on future UK-EU relations as “vague” and “waffle”, but Labour’s position is open to the same charge.

Corbyn can hardly be blamed for wanting to let the Tories’ stew in their own juice; why throw your drowning enemy a lifeline? However, he will soon have to come off the fence. His decisions will matter and, rarely for an opposition, could determine the country’s future.

The vast majority of Labour MPs will obey the party whip and vote against Theresa May’s deal in just over two weeks. When it is rejected (it’s a “when”, not an “if”), they will unite in opposing a no-deal exit next March and voting for a general election. But the Tories and Democratic Unionist Party will reject Corbyn’s call for an election. So the really big question is not what Labour does after the first Commons vote, but in the second one held after, as even her own ministers now assume, May returns from Brussels with some cosmetic changes to her deal and stakes all on getting it through as the clock ticks down to March.

A sizeable number of Labour backbenchers, seeing turmoil on the financial markets, feeling pressure from business and fearing a no-deal departure, might then switch sides and rescue May. They would argue that they had put the party first in the first Commons vote, but now had to act in the country’s interests. There are even rumours at Westminster that, if May’s tweaks shifted the deal in Labour’s direction, the Opposition might abstain, allowing the agreement to win a Commons majority.

I doubt that would happen – Corbyn would face a revolt from party members, and many Labour MPs would still vote against the deal. But I suspect Corbyn might not lose much sleep if 30 to 40 Labour MPs backed a revised deal and the UK left the EU on schedule on 29 March. “Constructive ambiguity” survived an election last year but would not survive another referendum. Corbyn would be relieved to see the back of Brexit, and return to the comfort zone of domestic policy.

Labour’s conference agreed that, if May’s deal and an election are rejected, the party would “support all options remaining on the table, including campaigning for a public vote” (Team Corbyn didn’t want to call it a “people’s vote” because the People’s Vote campaign has several refugees from Corbyn Labour on its staff, and is seen by Labour figures who oppose a referendum as an embryo centre party).

It is obvious from his words and body language that Corbyn does not want a referendum. “It would kill us in the north,” one ally said, predicting a backlash among Labour supporters who voted Leave in 2016. But there is growing evidence that opinion has changed since then, as the cold reality of Brexit bites.

On the eve of Labour’s conference, Corbyn promised he would be “bound” by its decision. After championing internal democracy, he could hardly say anything else. But some Labour members claim his recent media interviews – he told Der Spiegel Labour could not stop Brexit – were “not aligned with party policy” and are urging him to keep his promise.

One route for Labour would be to join forces with other opposition parties and some Tories in supporting a “Norway option” of European Economic Area membership, topped up with Labour’s policy of a permanent customs union. MPs in all parties believe there is a natural Commons majority for this. It could pass Labour’s deliberately flexible “six tests” if the leadership wanted it to.

Yet it’s hard to see May going down this road voluntarily. She will plough on, and enough Tory and Labour MPs might eventually be dragooned into backing her revised deal. But with even Dominic Raab, the former Brexit secretary, admitting today that May’s deal is worse than our current EU membership, Corbyn should not connive in allowing it to be implemented. He should honour his promise to Labour members, stick to his party’s policy and back a Final Say referendum.

====== 890 ========

MEA CULPA: IN AN ALTERNATIVE UNIVERSE, THIS COLUMN WOULDN’T HAVE HAPPENED

I was once told off for using the Americanism “alternate reality” rather than the British “alternative reality”, so I leap instinctively to the defence of my good colleague Matthew Norman, who is accused of the same offence.

Paul Edwards writes to object to this sentence in an article comparing David Davis’s trip to Washington to The Twilight Zone: “An episode of the original alternate reality series was titled ‘Five Characters In Search Of An Exit’.”

As readers of this column may know, I have been reading Kingsley Amis’s The King’s English recently, and he says this: “There is no excuse but the grossest similarity in appearance to confuse these two. Alternately means ‘first one, then the other, then the one, then the other, and so on’; alternatively means ‘another possibility is that …’ Similarly with the adjectives alternate and alternative.”

That would seem to be us told. But Amis then goes on to declare: “Exception: An Americanism that sound anomalous to British ears, as Americanisms will, is contained in the phrase ‘alternate world’ and its derivatives. This refers to a kind of science-fiction story or idea whereby some great crisis of the past went the other way and correspondingly changed history since that point.”

Despite his reputation as a curmudgeon, Amis could be indulgent when he wanted to be: “British readers are advised to follow this trend in the science-fiction context and nowhere else.”

I am not sure I agree with him. I don’t think it matters, but as long as some people do think it does there is no need to put them off. If, in an alternative universe, Norman had written “alternative reality” no one would have batted an eyelid and none of this would have happened.

Prize paragraph: Occasionally this column hands out plaudits as well as brickbats, so I should note that Paul Edwards, despite taking issue with “alternate reality”, praised the quality of Matthew Norman’s writing generally and – justly – singled out his final paragraph about the former Brexit secretary’s travels: “No one knows ... anything at all, beyond the fact that Grandpa Davis went to Washington, where one assumes, without knowing, that his highest level of contact was one of those grizzled bartenders who nod sympathetically at the ravings of deluded nebbishes on behalf of his tip jar.”

Mystery of existence: I have written before about the fashion for “existential”, referring either to a work of art about the mystery of existence or to a threat to the very existence of something. This week we quoted a group called Extinction Rebellion, which called climate change “our existential crisis”, which is all right I suppose.

But we also started a football report thus: “Even if only barely existential in comparison to the cauldron in Kazan … England’s rematch with Croatia was always about so much more than securing a summer siesta in the Algarve.” Given that the England football team either exists or does not, it is hard to see how a match could be “barely” existential.

Listen up: To return to Extinction Rebellion, the environmental group, we reported that it had declared a “Rebellion Day” and “invited the nation to join them outside a tone-deaf parliament”. As John Schluter wrote to point out, we probably meant a “stone-deaf parliament”, meaning one that is not listening, rather than one that cannot hold a tune.

====== 891 ========

HOW TO PSYCHOLOGICALLY PREPARE FOR A HARD BREXIT

Worried about the arrival of hard Brexit?

Quite right too. Indeed I suspect there will be many genuine cases of depression next spring, such is the strength of feeling in some quarters. Here, then are a few thoughts to comfort those dismayed about how things have turned out (this includes me).

1. Brexit might not happen

This argument hardly needs much rehearsal. The prime minister’s Brexit deal has found few friends; there is no majority for hard Brexit in parliament; there may be a second referendum; that would be more likely to return a “Remain” verdict than the one in 2016; anything could happen in the next few weeks. How shocked would you be if we woke up, smelt the coffee and realised that May's deal was so rotten we’d be better off where we are? The biggest U-turn in history? Better than the alternatives.

Even Arron Banks, the “bad boy of Brexit”, is edging this way. I quote his tweet: “I think the civil service have designed the deal to reflect that fact. Remain is a better choice than this capitulation... sadly.”

So, you know, hope springs eternal.

2. On 20 March 2019 the sun will still come up

The buses will run, the BBC will still be broadcasting and fresh water supplies should continue. In other words the apocalypse some are predicting is unlikely to transpire – though you would be wise to stock up (panic buy is the honest term) on certain essentials: loo roll, continental delicacies like salami, olives and some decent wines. You can read more in my guide to Brexit-proofing your life. Eventually, one would hope, the centripetal forces will make their presence felt and we will resume trading with continental Europe in the way we have since the dawn of time.

3. Britain’s decline will be genteel and gradual

As in the 1970s, when the UK was the “sick man of Europe” and only just allowed into the dynamic efficient giant that is the common market, the British may find economic growth frustratingly sluggish, but still positive. We will just have to get used to gradually getting relatively poor compared to our neighbours, until such time as, say, the Croatians and Slovaks overtake us in terms of income per head. But do we care about that? “Poor but happy” could be the new national motto. It’s the difference between having a massive heart attack or acquiring some slowly progressive debilitating illness that will take ages to get you. But life goes on and you make the best of it. If the global economy picks up that would help too (as it did after the 2016 vote). So, not all bad.

4. Brexit might work

I know, crazy idea, but that’s what economics is like. If it did work it would mean a massive amount of dislocation and unemployment as resources gradually shift from declining sectors of the economy and regions to the ones that find new ways to make a living. It would, as Jacob Rees-Mogg admits, take many years, perhaps half a century. It will be children as yet unborn who will get the benefit – Brexit is for the young. Maybe.

5. Brexit would have happened sooner or later

Even Europhiles have their limits. Some, anyhow. Such is the institutional impetus towards integration from the EU Commission and the likes of President Macron and, more hesitantly, Chancellor Merkel and her party, the British would sooner or later find themselves at what you might term “breaking point”. A European Army? Pressure to join the euro (despite the opt-out)? A European fiscal union and finance minister? A common migration policy? Even if you like the sound of any or all of those you must surely accept that they’d not go down that well amongst the great British public. On that reading Brexit is an historical inevitability.

6. Your fellow citizens are deluded racists who read the Sun and the Mail, fetishise two World Wars (and one World Cup) – get used to it

Brexit might be “the moment” when you simply have to come to terms that the folk you share this sceptred isle with aren’t as clever/open-minded/tolerant/humane/woke/whatever as you are. But you’re lumbered with them. Even the shift in opinion since 2016 hasn’t been that dramatic, and, while Remain would probably win now, and a Final Say is the right thing to do, a solid quarter to a third of your fellow citizens just want out of the EU whatever the cost, and would probably personally volunteer to bomb Germany. Worth acknowledging if nothing else.

7. It’s not all about money

Some Brexiteers believe, perfectly sincerely, that “sovereignty” and “taking back control” are such precious things and so closely linked to British democracy and sense of identity that it really doesn’t matter if the City of London and Canary Wharf are turned into wastelands, rural Britain returns to nature and every car factory in the country shuts down. Grasp that and you will find post-Brexit life much easier to comprehend.

8. It will make Britain more entertaining

Once we can just make up our own laws about anything, we can do whatever cranky stuff we want, which may or may not have been banned by the EU. We can bring back feet and yards; the shilling and the groat; we can let Aussies and Kenyans through customs ahead of Lithuanians and Italians; we can put huge taxes on German cars; we can abolish our labour laws; we could nationalise and subsidise vast tracts of the economy to build a socialist New Jerusalem. Just think of the fun the likes of Jeremy Corbyn or Michael Gove could have with the entire Lego set of the UK at their disposal.

Fun, no?

9. We can turn Britain into a giant version of the middle aisle at Lidl

If the Americans have just processed far too many of their famous chlorinated chickens – send ‘em our way. If the Chinese have erred again and churned out too much steel – we can make good use of that. A bumper South African fruit harvest or an especially good year for the New Zealand dairy industry means treats for every British dinner table. Global Britain in action.

10. It’ll make Britain more 'distinctive' and eccentric

Laws unique to the UK mean new customs and traditions that are only seen in the UK could evolve, just like strange new species do on remote islands such as the Galapagos.

Alternatively, the country, fully opened to world trading, could become the most cosmopolitan nation on earth, a melting pot of foods, consumer goods and ideas from every corner of God’s green earth. If we restricted immigration so much that there was a shortage of labour at any price, we might actually have to turn to robotics and AI to pick the fruit, drive the cabs and lorries, clean the hotel rooms and staff the care homes – just as the Japanese have had to try, suffering from similar demographic pressures. Just imagine the Great Global Robotic Britain of 2050, a leisure hive where no one need worry about making a living.

That’s cheered you up, hasn’t it?

====== 892 ========

LEARN TO LIVE: CHILDREN’S LIVES HAVE BEEN MEANINGFULLY AND PERMANENTLY IMPROVED, SAYS WAR CHILD CEO

On the last day of our Learn to Live campaign it’s truly inspiring to look back at what’s been achieved over the past three months.

Children’s lives have been meaningfully and permanently improved thanks to The Evening Standard, The Independent and a group of passionate London schools – whose pupils should be so proud of everything they’ve achieved.

In response to our campaign the government has increased funding for mental health and psychosocial support for Syrian child refugees. It has also provided funding to War Child for supporting children in the Central African Republic.

It makes me hopeful for the future to see that UK children are so moved when they learn about children forced to live in starkly different circumstances.

The empathy and shared understanding that has been fostered throughout this campaign has meant we’ve received letters from hundreds of schoolchildren across the UK supporting War Child and the people we help.

All the young people involved in this campaign – in London and War Child’s programmes – told us that support for the emotional needs of children in conflict must be a priority. This is why War Child has been calling for mental health and psychosocial support to be a core part of any humanitarian response.

It is welcome that the Department for International Development has increased funding to this area as a result of Learn to Live, and we have been heartened by the positive response of the UK government. But now it is critical that we maintain the momentum of this campaign into the future.

Next year the Netherlands will host a global summit focusing on mental health and psychosocial support in emergencies. This will be a critical milestone for further commitments, and we look forward to the government continuing its leadership on this issue on the world stage.

Rob Williams is chief executive officer of War Child UK

====== 893 ========

TO UNDERSTAND TRUMP’S ABUSIVE RELATIONSHIP WITH SAUDI ARABIA, WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND NIXON’S AFFAIR WITH IRAN

A controversial president is in the Whitehouse. America’s largest oil supplier is a monarchy, which is also the US’s largest arms customer. And American foreign policy in the Middle East is almost entirely dictated by its one-sided relationship with this oil-rich monarchy.

While this sounds much like a description of America’s slightly unnatural relationship with the Wahhabi Saudi Arabia today, it is also an exact description of the relationship between the US and the Iranian Shah in the 1970s.

And look how well that ended.

It seems like the US has a habit of becoming infatuated with Middle Eastern monarchies and forming unhealthy relationships with them that end in tears, drunken tweeting and foreign policy disaster.

Lets go back half a century. In the 1960s the British empire was gently disintegrating and London realised it could no longer afford many of the things it used to. These things included battleships, cigars and the ability to keep a permanent military presence in the Persian Gulf.

America was nervous. It had become deeply dependent on oil from the Middle Eastern region to fuel the constant growth on which US hegemony was built. But now that its bankrupt ally could no longer afford to keep the peace (or ensure an ongoing supply of cheap oil), a strategic problem had emerged.

It was then that America met their prince – the handsome, carefully coiffed Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. His family had ruled Iran for 2,500 years. Yes, that’s right: 2,500 years.

The nations’ alliance had got off the ground under president Truman after the Second World War and was based on the principle that the US would guarantee Iran’s security in exchange for oil. The massive growth in the US economy after the war meant that its oil requirements had ballooned, and Iran needed a muscular friend to help it survive in a rough neighbourhood. Initially, arms sales were limited but by the 1960s Iran was the biggest buyer of US military hardware in the world.

The Shah used smooth talk and guile to wrap the US around his finger. America was aware of the deeply undemocratic and brutal nature of his regime, but he wooed them with oil and scared them with pillowtalk about the Soviet and Arab nationalist threat to his rule, and thus to their oil supply. He could do no wrong. The guns kept coming, and with it the implicit promise that the US would defend him from any threat.

But he was going down a dark road. And the US cheerily skipped down that road with him.

Eventually the Shah had managed to make enemies of the Islamic clerical hierarchy, the socialist left and the nationalists. Making enemies of all these groups was quite an achievement and meant that, even with US support, he could no longer survive.

The fall of his unlovely regime may not have been hugely significant but what was significant was the fact that, as his devoted “friend with benefits”, the United States had now inherited all his enemies. Thanks to its blind devotion to their handsome prince, the US had made enemies of almost everyone in the region. By allowing him and his oil to have undue influence, they found themselves in possession of a foreign policy that made no sense to America and did not serve its interests.

The disaster was so enormous that it triggered a hostage crisis, a brutal war between Iran and Iraq, and 40 years of hostility between Iran and America. It was the ugliest breakup imaginable.

Basically the US was like someone who falls into an unhealthy relationship, gets a weird tattoo, ends up compromising far too much, let’s their partner make all the decisions, loses every friend they have and then has to pay their ex’s gambling debts when it ends.

Sensible people learn from relationships like this, and take care not to fall into another one just like it. The US, however, has not been so careful.

With the Arab nationalists and the Ayatollah (who, thanks to the public bromance between the Shah and America, now hated the US) controlling much of the Middle East’s oil, America needed a new friend.

A friend with lots of oil, who needed protection. Saudi Arabia was that friend.

Just like it did with the Shah, the US has completely compromised itself for the sake of this relationship. The US has ignored gross human rights abuses, turned its back on moderate Muslim governments and allowed the most extreme wing of Sunni Islam to proliferate. The nation has even ignored the fact that Saudi money seems to have funded the Taliban and 9/11 attacks, which Saudi Arabia has long denied.

And now the US president has officially stated that even if Saudi Arabia’s de facto head of state ordered the murder of a Washington Post journalist (which is vehemently denied by Saudi Arabia), it isn’t really that big a deal.

It is another deeply unhealthy relationship that is sure to end badly.

====== 894 ========

WHY DID THE UAE FEEL CONFIDENT ENOUGH TO SENTENCE MATTHEW HEDGES TO LIFE IN PRISON? BECAUSE OF THE CHAOS ROUND BREXIT

The United Arab Emirates' sentencing of Durham university PHD student Matthew Hedges to life imprisonment for spying on behalf of the British government has sounded alarm bells and called into question the level of trust between the United Kingdom and one of its historically close allies. The fallout may result in a downgrade in diplomatic ties between the two nations.

Hedges and his academic supervisor at Durham say that he was researching civil-military relations in the UAE since the Arab Spring. His research is said to have touched on the thorny issue of the UAE's military presence in Yemen. The Saudi-led war in Yemen is a controversial topic because of the thousands of civilian casualties, hundreds of alleged war crimes and dire humanitarian situation – the United Nations recently stated that half the population is at risk of famine. The UAE is careful to uphold a positive international image and surely would not want to fuel the fire and incriminate itself further in such a devastating conflict.

Despite countless democratic allies, a modern facade and glossy veneer of openness – with western academic institutions and businesses franchising or expanding into the wealthy Gulf nation – the UAE is notorious for forced confessions, unfair trials and little tolerance for freedom of speech.

The UAE alleges that “espionage material” was found on Hedges' laptop and since May this year he had been detained in solitary confinement in an Abu Dhabi prison in degrading conditions, sleeping on the floor and unable to have a shower during his first month of imprisonment. His sentencing verdict was delivered during a five-minute court session without the presence of his lawyer. Hedges denies the allegations against him, although Emirati prosecutors claim that he confessed while under questioning.

The move by Emirati authorities to allege espionage and impose such a steep punishment on a British citizen might be viewed as a sign of the diminished value the nation places on its ongoing economic and diplomatic ties with the UK, preferring to reorient its alliances elsewhere. This summer the UAE ramped up political, security and economic relations with Russia, signing a new Declaration of Strategic Partnership.

However, Emirati state media has also been touting the opportunities for enhanced trade with the UK, post-Brexit. The UAE's ambassador to the UK Sulaiman Al Mazroui stated earlier this year that he firmly believes a “global Britain” is a key partner for the UAE. He has also said on Friday that he hopes the UAE can reach an "equitable conclusion" regarding Hedges' sentencing, but the outcome remains to be seen.

Hedges' wife Daniela Tejeda met with Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt on Thursday who tweeted that evening, “I've just had a constructive conversation with UAE FM [Foreign Minister] Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed. I believe [and] trust he's working hard to resolve the situation asap. We've a close partnership with UAE which will help us take things forward.”

Despite the susceptibility to arbitrary detention, human rights abuses and skirmishes in the past involving the imprisonment of British citizens for not adhering to the country's strict laws which are based on its moral code, the UAE has hitherto been considered a safe and desirable country for Brits both to visit and to relocate to.

A souring or even severing of ties between the nations could have a devastatingly negative effect on more than 100,000 British nationals living and working in the Gulf state. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that an oppositional stance from the British government over Hedges' judgement might jeopardise the futures of British expats in the UAE – last summer's Saudi-led boycott of Qatar led to the expulsion of all Qataris residing in the country, painfully disrupting the transnational familial and tribal ties of the Gulf region.

The UK and UAE (formerly known as the Trucial States and under a British protectorate until 1971) have very deep and long-established political, security and economic ties with a historically strong trading relationship. Bilateral trade doubled between 2009 and 2016 and is now at nearly £15bn with a target of reaching £25bn by 2020. This ranks the UAE as the UK's 12th largest trading partner – and sixth largest outside of Europe.

Tejeda told BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Thursday morning that the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office had been “stepping on eggshells instead of taking a firm stance” and said she thought “they were putting their interests with the UAE above a British citizen's rightful freedom and welfare”.

American president Donald Trump's support for Saudi Arabia after the murder of its journalist Jamal Khashoggi, which evidence suggests was perpetrated by the Saudi state, demonstrates that in the current climate trade and economics are valued above justice and human rights.

Amid mounting public pressure, Jeremy Hunt recently visited Iran to plea for the release of jailed Brit Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who is also accused of spying. Both Iran and Saudi Arabia are regional hegemons frequently operating from their own playbooks. Is the UAE exhibiting the paranoid tendencies of entrenched sclerotic regimes? Or is this harsh sentencing signalling that it too can flex its muscles as one of the powerful Gulf States that doesn't kowtow to Western human rights demands?

For whatever aim, the UAE is perhaps taking advantage of the instability of Britain's political and economic climate and the intense pressure on the government to negotiate a deal out of the European Union. The UAE knows that at such uncertain times, the loss of an important and strategic economic partner is a great risk.

====== 895 ========

‘ONLY BY DOCUMENTING THE HORRORS OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE IN CONFLICT ZONES CAN WE HOLD PERPETRATORS TO ACCOUNT’

This week, as the prime minister’s special representative on preventing sexual violence in conflict, I am honoured to be hosting the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative Film Festival in London. The event will shine a spotlight on sexual violence in conflict, highlight the need to take decisive action on a global scale, and take forward the fight against impunity and stigma.

Around the world, sexual violence continues to be used as a weapon of war on a scale that is truly appalling. This is particularly true of Syria: according to a United Nations Commission of Inquiry report earlier this year, “no one had been unaffected by sexual and gender-based violence during the Syrian conflict”. This horrifies us all – based on the UN’s findings, we are talking about a whole generation of people affected mentally and physically by these violent crimes.

But individuals and communities, with the UK’s assistance, are working to give voice to survivors and support them to secure justice. I am honoured to share today the voices of two Syrian activists who have done just that.

The UK is at the forefront of the international community’s efforts to secure justice for survivors, shatter the culture of impunity, and tackle the stigma faced by survivors. In 2014 we hosted the largest ever summit on preventing sexual violence in conflict, bringing together governments, NGOs, experts and survivors to begin to change global attitudes to these crimes. In Syria, we have given £10 million through our Conflict, Stability and Security Fund to support gender-related projects since the start of the crisis, including supporting Syrian organisations to raise awareness of women’s rights, to treat survivors of sexual violence, and to document medical evidence for use in any future prosecutions. And we have provided £30 million to the UN Population Fund in Syria to help reduce and mitigate gender-based violence, and provide life-saving sexual and reproductive health services.

The professionals working on the ground in Syria to support survivors and bring their cases to light deserve all of our admiration. Their stories, shared here for the first time, reveal the importance of documenting sexual violence in conflict to build up a body of evidence for prosecutions, to hold perpetrators to account, and to help deter future sexual violence.

Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon is the prime minister’s special representative on preventing sexual violence in conflict

***

A documentation expert working on recording sexual and gender based violence in Syria

All our work documenting sexual violence cases is confidential. Names are kept concealed, and files are codified. The documented cases constitute a file on which legal action could be based in the future. It is the right of these women to have justice done, and to punish the perpetrators of these acts. There is a real fear of attack or threats to doctors involved in documenting these abuses.

There is no denying that there were acts of violence, rape and sexual abuse before the revolution, but numbers then were meagre as there was law and punishment in place then. Since the revolution, huge numbers of cases have been reported from the detention centres. Most of the documented cases are of female detainees held by the regime. The acts of violence ranged from sexual harassment to forceful stripping of clothes to rape and further worse instances. Sexual violence was practised in some areas as a weapon to intimidate a particular group to move to another area. There were also cases from the refugee camps because no accountability system was in place.

We focus on educating women on their rights. We need to try to change stereotyping in the community, to knock down the wall of silence of women and rid them of the social stigma attached to victims. When a son is detained and then released, society tells the father “be proud of him and keep your head high because he was a detainee”. Why not so when the detainee is a woman? She was detained, and she could have done nothing to prevent it. And when she was abused violently outside jail, she was the victim, not the perpetrator. We need to alter the way society views these women.

***

A medical professional involved in treating survivors

The organisation I work for specialises in documenting cases of sexual violence that have taken place in detention centres. We also receive cases that require medical, psychological services or legal assistance, and we try to help them with that too, referring them to other organisations who can help.

I do this work in my spare time, usually a day or two a week. For security reasons I cannot discuss the nature of my work with anyone; even those closest to me are unaware of what I do. Just by meeting with someone who has just been released from a regime detention centre I am putting myself in danger.

Due to the stigma surrounding the issue, women who have suffered from sexual violence whilst in detention often have no one to support them, and are often turned away by their families. They hear about us through other survivors, nurses or first aid centres. They do not tell anyone about what has happened to them as they worry about the community’s perception. We are most often the only people who have heard what they have been through.

During the year and a half that I have been doing this, one case really touched me personally. When I was receiving my training, I attended the case of a woman in her 50s who was gang-raped by teenagers. She said they were the age of her children. Her words still echo in my ears and I cannot get the images out of my mind.

Each story I have heard is painful. These stories must come out to the public. These injustices must be stopped once and for all.

Syria has been under tyranny and oppression for 20 or 30 years. I do not want my children to go through the same thing. There are individuals who have been in jail for months or years, in unimaginable conditions. I do not want us to continue to live under fear of torture and violence from the police-state regime – not being able to raise our voices in protest. One day I hope that we will be able to live freely like a normal country.

Sometimes I feel like this hope is a bit far-fetched. But when I look at other countries which have experienced civil wars like us, or even when I look at the First and Second World War, places where people’s lives eventually came together again, I regain some hope.

====== 896 ========

THERESA MAY HAS DELIVERED AN IDIOT'S BREXIT, BUT THE IDIOTS WILL NOT STAND FOR IT

Around two decades ago, a contestant on Ready Steady Cook who fancied himself something of a comedy legend overturned his plastic bag to reveal the ingredients he had brought with him from home, from which he expected his mystery celebrity chef to whip up a gourmet feast inside 20 minutes. They were: a Pot Noodle, a Mars Bar and a can of lager.

Twenty minutes later, all of which this young man had spent grinning to himself at his anarchic powers of daytime TV format subversion, Antony Worrall Thompson presented him the following meal: a Mars Bar, lightly fried in a lager batter, and, decanted into a nice white china bowl, a Pot Noodle.

It was at this point that the chap had the temerity to question Worrall Thompson’s powers of invention. He may even have muttered the words: “I could have done that myself.”

Was he really that stupid or was he just taking the piss? Alas, the credits rolled before these questions could be meaningfully explored. And suddenly, 20 short years later, Theresa May has returned from Brussels with her “Political Declaration setting out the Framework for the Future Relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom”, and the same is being asked of a very large proportion of pro-Brexit Tory MPs.

As a gentle reminder, it is the UK, not the EU, that has turned up to these negotiations with the Pot Noodle/Mars Bar/lager triptych of demands that involve leaving the single market, leaving the customs union, but, by some process of dark magic, to do so in a way that does not require any kind of customs checks on the border in Ireland, where the EU will end and the UK will begin.

For 18 long months, the EU could not have been clearer about the limited range of culinary solutions these base ingredients offer. For 18 long months, here on the UK side, chocolate and dehydrated noodle related alchemy has been demanded.

And now that the Mars Bar has been gently fried in lager in a brave attempt to disguise the fundamentally obvious, the grinning idiots will not eat it. And more to the point, they think that if they’d just be given the pots and pans themselves, the Michelin stars would surely follow.

And best of all, as Theresa May faced down two hours of questions on it in the House of Commons, it slowly became clear that the late night last-minute negotiations that had brought us to this point had been done entirely to placate the very idiots who would now, alas, not be placated.

For those who still want, say, frictionless trade with the European Union, no hard border in Ireland and the ability to strike free trade deals, words had been included to intimate a “commitment to explore” the eminently impossible.

Earlier in the week, for example, Iain Duncan Smith had been in to see the prime minister to say that the Irish backstop was not needed, because technological solutions that are yet to be invented could do the job instead.

Now, with the desperate need to get this document published or else the weekend summit in Brussels be cancelled, it does indeed say the UK and the EU will consider “facilitative arrangements and technologies” and will look at developing “alternative arrangements” for an invisible border that is currently impossible.

As a result, Mr Duncan Smith wanted to know why, now that a vague commitment to explore his magical solutions was there in black and white, the backstop could not be withdrawn.

In other words, now that I have swallowed this magical flying pill, prime minister, I ask that my parachute be withdrawn.

It was like watching a four-year-old trying to con another four-year-old into going to bed. Like a mouse asking if the trap could be withdrawn now that he has agreed to eat the cheese.

Even Jeremy Corbyn had spotted that the document was “peppered with phrases like ‘look at’ and ‘will explore’.” And if Jeremy Corbyn has seen through your ruse, that’s when you know you really do have a problem.

The main point, though, is that after two hours, I believe a total of two MPs from all parties had spoken out in favour of Theresa May’s deal.

Brexit, like Ready Steady Cook, must end in a meaningful vote. You will not be shocked to learn that, back then, and despite Worrall Thompson’s very best efforts, the audience did not vote Pot Noodle.

When the House of Commons inevitably declines to do the same, more alchemy will be required; and as of now, nobody has even the tiniest clue what.

====== 897 ========

OF COURSE GOD ISN’T A MAN – IGNORE THIS CYNICAL ATTEMPT BY THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND TO FILL EMPTY PEWS

Asked in a church in Trafalgar Square whether God had a gender, Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby said “God is not a father in exactly the same way as a human being is a father. God is not male or female. God is not definable.” The argument is extraordinarily dated in Christian circles, but arguments and discussions over gender pronouns and whether people can define as whichever gender they feel they belong in are a considerable part of the modern discourse. Welby will have been aware his comments would spark a large argument, and of course, many words have been spilled over his belief by writers, myself included.

As a practising Catholic, the guiding books of the faith make clear Welby is right: that there should be any argument is bizarre. The Catechism of the Catholic Church states “In no way is God in man's image. He is neither man nor woman. God is pure spirit in which there is no place for the difference between the sexes.” As Welby says, human language is utterly inadequate when trying to describe many aspects of faith, including the Holy Trinity. But Welby’s intervention has led to many others speaking out and complaining that gendered language is still used in religious services, referring to God as “our father”.

Newsnight hosted a discussion on whether the language describing the language of the Bible and liturgy was patriarchal for using the term “father”. Rev Gavin Ashenden argued the term was used to describe the intimacy and relationship between worshippers and God: “what we’re talking about is the relationship and intimacy that we experience as father”, while Rev Margaret Joachim worried that people with poor relationships with their father may find the term problematic.

As Emily Maitlis pointed out, there is a suspicion the decision to bring up the issue of gender and God plays into contemporary conversations about gender fluidity: the Church of England has a huge problem with falling worshipper numbers and empty pews, and has regularly been accused of attention seeking ploys to entice in younger people. Tweeting about cafes and wifi in churches, rather than service times drew criticism for a lack of seriousness about their mission.

This incident will only compound the church’s perceived problem with hypocrisy. After endorsing a report by the IPPR think tank, it was revealed Archbishop Justin Welby had criticised the gig economy and payday loans, despite the Church of England owning shares in Amazon, and pulled out of a rescue effort for the infamous payday loan company Wonga. Just this week, it was revealed the Church paid women over £10,000 less than men, and that Lambeth Palace - the seat of the Church of England – operates a pay gap of 24 per cent.

Recent statistics show the crisis facing the church: only one in five people who define as Anglican attend Church of England services at least once a month, compared to two in five Roman Catholics. Between 1983 and the present day, those identifying as Anglican has fallen 20 per cent, while the number identifying as Roman Catholic has remained static. Only 2 per cent of young adults identify as Anglican, while 10 per cent are Roman Catholic, five times as many as the established church.

Why is Catholicism more appealing to young people? More and more Millennials find a certain emotional and spiritual core is lacking in an economic climate that stops people owning a house, marrying or having children. Increasing numbers of people are turning to tarot and astrology to assuage that sense of emptiness. The young Catholics I know through various groups are far more serious about their faith than older people, and especially their parents: they may be politically left but are keen on the traditions of the Church and serious about theology.

It is this seriousness, and the continuation of a traditional approach to faith and liturgy that fills Catholic pews. A church that attempts to appear modern and hip in attempts to lure in millennials is as embarrassing as it is off-putting, like a drunk uncle trying to join in a conversation unbidden. People are looking to be part of a tradition, and a community that takes faith seriously rather than chasing headlines for attention. Welby and his colleagues should look inwards at their services and outreach rather than trying to lever themselves into contemporary discussions and obscure arguments.

====== 898 ========

THE BEST WAY TO SPEND YOUR MONEY ON BLACK FRIDAY? A HEFTY DONATION TO STRIKING AMAZON WORKERS

Ah Black Friday. Is there a more grotesque display of capitalism, consumerism, and me-me-me on the planet?

You’d probably expect me to say something like that. This is The Independent after all. We’re supposed to be the news organisation that cares about butterflies and stuff.

It’s not just us, though. The ugly scenes this unwelcome American import has produced on occasion have sparked widespread condemnation. Lots of retailers will privately tell you they hate it, but that for them it’s a case of damned if you do, damned if you don’t.

Here’s the thing. I’d be both liar and hypocrite if I didn’t admit to having taken part in the rampant consumer-fest. Truth be told, I’ll probably take part this year.

I’m not perfect. I have Christmas presents to buy, and like much of the rest of the country, I find it hard to resist a bargain, even though many of the bargains that retailers are touting don’t actually hold up to close scrutiny.

I also have an Amazon account, and much as I might dislike the company’s corporate practices, its customer service is second to none.

However, I admit to feeling embarrassed, when talking to a trade unionist friend of mine who’d suggested some music he thought I might like, about admitting I’d give it a stream via Amazon Music. It’s OK, he said, we’re all a bit conflicted that way.

But it got me to thinking. Is there a way to do Black Friday, and Amazon, while quieting that little voice that says “you’ve read the reports about the way they treat warehouse staff and yet you’re still doing this you utter bastard”. At least a bit?

I think there is, and I’m prepared to put my money where my mouth is.

First off I’m going to publicly pledge my support to the GMB trade union, which represents Amazon workers.

The GMB is on Friday holding a series of Black Friday protests across the UK over what it describes as “inhuman conditions” at the company’s warehouses. Workers in Italy and Spain are expected to stage 24-hour strikes on the same day.

The union has highlighted a series of problems, such as ambulances being called out to the warehouses and complaints to the Health and Safety Executive about conditions. The numbers of both, it has discovered through freedom of information requests, are eye-popping.

It doesn’t want you, or I, to boycott Amazon. Far from it. Amazon provides its workers with jobs after all. So it’s in their and the union’s interests for the company to continue to succeed.

What it does want is this hugely profitable business – the founder and CEO Jeff Bezos is the world’s richest man – to get around a table and find a way of improving conditions for employees, employees who will probably be too exhausted to look for Black Friday deals themselves. Working at a “fulfilment centre” must be unbelievably tough at this time of year. The testimony from staff provided by the union made me shudder.

It’s time for Amazon to do the right thing.

In theory, I’ll save money through Black Friday. So I’ve also kicked over £25 to the crowd fund Ruth Lane has set up with the aim of suing DPD, the delivery company that is a big part of the gig economy a lot of web retailers rely on.

She claims that the company, which her late husband Don worked for, rigidly enforced working patterns, and backed this up with financial penalties. As a result, Don struggled to attend vital medical appointments and died through complications related to insulin-dependent diabetes.

DPD argues that he was self-employed.

Now, I have a similar condition. But I’m fortunate in having an understanding employer.

The donation, to me, feels like an appropriate way of making Black Friday more palatable.

====== 899 ========

THERESA MAY NEEDS TO REASSESS BRITAIN’S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE UAE – MATTHEW HEDGES’ FREEDOM DEPENDS ON IT

Prime Minister Theresa May says she’s “deeply disappointed” by the life sentence a United Arab Emirates (UAE) court has just handed to British academic Matthew Hedges.

Hedges was given a life sentence for spying by a court in Abu Dhabi during a trial that lasted less than five minutes, during which Hedges had no access to a lawyer.

May has vowed to raise his case at the “highest level”.

Perhaps she will tackle the UAE regime at the next Defence and Security Equipment International arms fair where UK weapons manufacturers, helped by the British government, sell their wares to any despot with an open cheque book.

British arms sales to repressive regimes in the Middle East have soared to £5bn since the 2017 election.

The UAE is the second largest importer of weapons in the Middle East and was listed as the world’s third largest importer of weapons between 2012 and 2016. The sale of UK cyber surveillance technology and weapons to the UAE leaped by 94 per cent in 2017. And according to Department for International Trade figures, UK military sales to Saudi Arabia increased by two-thirds in 2017 year on year, with the UK issuing 126 export licences, relating to military goods, to Saudi Arabia with a value of £1.129bn.

Both Saudi Arabia and UAE are using the weapons sold to them by the UK on the people of Yemen.

Charity Save the Children estimates 84,701 children have died since a Saudi Arabian-led coalition began its war on Yemen in 2015.

The UN say more than 1.3 million Yemeni children have been affected by severe malnutrition since the conflict began, and 14 million people now face famine there.

This is of little interest to May, who has played a very active role in promoting UK arms sales to the Gulf states.

In 2017 she insisted that: “Gulf security is our security and Gulf prosperity is our prosperity”.

No doubt May sees the children of Yemen – and Matthew Hedges’ incarceration – as an irrelevance that mustn’t be allowed to stand in the way of “our prosperity”.

Sasha Simic

London N16

Durham University is at fault for allowing PhD student Matthew Hedges to put himself in harm’s way by going to the UAE in search of sensitive information on the effect of the Arab Spring on its security and foreign policy.

It’s widely known the UAE took the Arab Spring extremely seriously and prosecuted en masse 94 government critics who called for reform. It beggars belief he thought he could interview with impunity senior figures about state security.

The first requirement for an academic undertaking research in the UAE is surely fluency in Arabic. It might have stopped him signing a confession in Arabic that he had knowingly jeopardised the state’s “military, political and economic security”.

Rev Dr John Cameron

St Andrews

Anne Hegerty and bush tucker trials

Much as I appreciate the sympathetic feelings expressed towards Anne Hegerty and her courage in I’m a Celebrity, I am still appalled by the callous cruelty of the public who voted for her as a candidate for a trial in the programme.

Christine Oram

Hove

Out-of-hospital care is more crucial than ever

I’m writing in response to your article titled “Theresa May’s £3.5bn for out-of-hospital care revolution not enough to deliver significant changes, experts warn”. The important role rapid response teams play in helping to reduce emergency admissions to hospital isn’t news to us.

At Marie Curie, we provide hands-on nursing care for people living with a terminal illness, and already work closely with other local providers to effectively operate rapid response teams in the UK.

The availability of this service means patients and their families are able to access information and advice over the phone, and urgent hands-on care in their homes, any day of the week.

Working as a clinical nurse manager for the charity, I see every day how our service helps prevent people being unnecessarily rushed to hospital, which can be a very traumatic experience for everyone involved. We can already see increasing need for our service in the community and know that the demand for such services will continue to rise.

We know that people who had care from the Marie Curie nursing service in the community were three times less likely to have an emergency admission, so they could spend their final days in their own home surrounded by their loved ones. Making end-of-life care in the community a greater priority would ensure that more people can die where they want to, which for most is not the hospital.”

Jayne Unwin, clinical nurse manager at Marie Curie

Address supplied

Leave Theresa May alone

Some of your correspondents are being a mite overcritical of Theresa May. She has in fact performed a great public service by demonstrating conclusively that the best deal she could negotiate is infinitely inferior to remaining in the European Union. The interesting question, for historians and psychologists, is whether she did this intentionally or by accident.

Philip Goldenberg

Woking

Spain is forgetting its own territorial history

I see that, once again, Spain is bringing its territorial dispute with the UK over Gibraltar as a reason for its proposed “veto”. Why is it that Spain’s territory in Morocco, Ceuta, is rarely acknowledged? There’s also no mention made of Melilla, the disputed Spanish town of Olivenza on a disputed section of the border with Portugal, or the Spanish exclave of Livia. Is there not some hypocrisy here from the Spanish government?

Brian Donnellan

Huddersfield

A second referendum is anything but undemocratic

I keep hearing the argument against having a second referendum, citing it to be undemocratic and often sarcastically questioning whether it would lead to a “best of three” contest. I would argue we are in an unlimited contest.

Democracy did not end after the first vote. We shouldn’t even be thinking of this as a second referendum.

It would be a completely separate referendum, based on a whole different set of facts and considerations for the voter, which were nowhere near the table last time around. After we have this mess sorted out, we could then move onto more “second referendums”. Fox hunting, anyone?

Marc Cutworth

Cambridgeshire

Britain’s greatness ended a long time ago

I regret that a substantial minority of the entire British public are willing to swim against the tides of history, seeking to divorce the UK from mainland Europe.

Britain was “great” in 1908 when the sun never set on our empire, when our Royal Navy ruled the waves, when British coal supplied energy running much of the northern hemisphere, and when our fortress island homeland could not be destroyed by a few intercontinental nuclear missiles.

110 years later, there are too many fools in British politics who cannot accept that such “greatness” is now forever gone. Their wishful thinking cannot restore it.

Ted Batty

Selby, Yorkshire

====== 900 ========

TO UNLOCK THE DIPLOMATIC MYSTERIES BEHIND THE MURDER OF JAMAL KHASHOGGI, TAKE A LOOK AT SYRIA

The Saudis are going to get away with it. Muhammad bin Salman, too. They may pay a price – we’ll travel in that direction later – but they remain the “vision of light” against Iran’s “vision of darkness”, in the words of Saudi Arabia’s ever more egregious foreign minister.

We are all, alas, making the same old Middle East mistake: of thinking that the bad guys will get overthrown or punished for their murders and transgressions and that the good guys (whoever they may be) will come out on top.

Jamal Khashoggi was the victim of murder most foul. But in the Middle East’s sectarian civil war, the Sunnis have got to win over the Shiites and the Saudis have got the money, and America’s president – for whom the epithet “insane” is now as irrelevant as it is obvious – has managed to quote the Saudis as claiming that Khashoggi was “an enemy of the people” and a member of the Muslim Brotherhood. Even if his murder was “terrible” and “a horrible crime”. It could very well be, announced the leader of the free world this week, that bin Salman had knowledge of the murder. “Maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!”

The story clip-clops along like an old horse and we all trot along behind this lovable, familiar, furry beast.

There was a kind of tragic inevitability behind Adel al-Jubair’s latest appearance as Saudi foreign minister in Bahrain, a Sunni monarchy with a Shiite majority where the UK has just opened a new naval base beside the headquarters of the US 5th Fleet. Al-Jubair accused the press – yes us, colleagues of Khashoggi – of “hysterical” coverage of his murder. It was as if he was running the movie backwards to its original claim of innocence: when the kingdom stated that it had nothing to do with his butchery, that he had indeed left the Saudi consulate in Istanbul alive, that they had no idea what had happened to him. Hysteria indeed. How dare the media go on about Khashoggi being murdered and chopped into bits and secretly buried. Anyway, where was the body?

If there’s a murder, there’s got to be a body. And so here, briefly, we go back to Istanbul and to the Sultan himself, who doesn’t blame good old King Salman, but who really would like to find the corpse and who might – here we go again – have yet another tape of Khashoggi to send to the world’s intelligence services. Be sure our political leaders will not sully their ears by listening to it; Trump called the original recording “a suffering tape”. Canada’s Trudeau chose not to listen to it. But they really should have put their ear to the loudspeaker. Listening to an Arab journalist telling his murderers that he was suffocating would have been a fairly accurate symbol of democracy in the Middle East today.

But Erdogan must have other plans. And here, I suspect, we should move a little south of the Sublime Porte and gaze over the plains of Idlib, the Syrian province where we were long ago told to expect – by Trump, the UN, the British, the EU, Amnesty International, Uncle Tom Cobley and his old grey mare – a bloody, gas-infected invasion by Syrian and Russian forces to finally destroy the Islamist fighters of Isis, al-Nusrah, al-Qaeda and their fellow jihadis, along with tens of thousands of civilians. Idlib is the rubbish basket for the enemies of the Syrian regime. Their only escape route is across the Turkish border – whence they originally came.

But since the Sultan doesn’t want them back, and since Syria and Russia see no point in another bloodbath when the Syrian war has almost concluded — though readers may check this conclusion against future events – the outstanding question remains: where should these assorted Sunni Islamist fighters and their families go?

Since their money and their weapons come from the Sunni Gulf and since their Wahhabi Sunni faith was inspired by the very same creed which governs the Saudi monarchy, what better location for their future welfare than one of Saudi Arabia’s vast sandpits? Could there be a more humane and convenient place for their “re-education” than the ascetic wastes of the Saudi Empty Quarter?

Surely the Saudis, who would according to Trump “gladly withdraw from Yemen”, could accommodate the lot of them, saving the west – yet again – from “world terror” while sparing themselves a second tape from Erdogan and the sudden and most inconvenient discovery of body parts from a victim whose demise may have been known – or maybe not – to Muhammad bin Salman.

Maybe he did and maybe he didn’t, as we must now say.

The Russians must surely approve. The Americans, too. The Saudis would surely be making a sacrifice for all of us to take on so onerous a burden as the desert imprisonment of the Isis and Nusrah legions inside the kingdom itself. After all, these legions of crucifiers and executioners – I’m talking about Isis, of course – would certainly abide by prison rules when their guards are such experts in publicly chopping off the heads of alleged drug addicts and child murderers with the sword, not to mention the dismemberment of a journalist with a bone saw.

Can we see a deal in the making here? The Yemen war comes to an end (thanks to its arms-selling enablers in the west) and the Syrian war reaches its peaceful finale with the blessing of Vladimir Putin. Of the $450bn Saudi Arabia has promised to spend on weapons in the US – let’s have no more talk of a piece of paper – $110bn will go to Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon “and many other great US defence contractors”. Adel al-Jubair’s “vision of light” – Saudi Arabia, of course – can go to war with Iran’s “vision of darkness which seeks to spread sectarianism throughout the region”.

Khashoggi may have had a certain vision of darkness as they put the plastic bag over his head in the Saudi consulate last month, but in the Middle East the good guys don’t always come out on top. The war with Iran must be fought. The war against the Shiites must be fought. Israel and Netanyahu – notice how those names have so far eluded us in our woeful tale today? – will be satisfied with their “secret” Saudi alliance against Iran. Boeing and Lockheed Martin will flourish, along with many other great US defence contractors. And the Saudi crown prince – unlike Khashoggi – will be assured of a long life and an honourable burial in old age. Preferably in one piece.

====== 901 ========

THE WEST’S TREATMENT OF RUSSIA OVER THE INTERPOL PRESIDENCY IS DANGEROUS AND DISINGENUOUS

The Russians made no secret of their unhappiness after their candidate, Alexander Prokopchuk, was soundly beaten in elections for the presidency of Interpol. A Kremlin spokesman accused western countries of “unprecedented interference” in the process of choosing a new leader for the international crimefighting organisation, while senior Russian politicians spoke of a smear campaign and called for lawsuits to be instituted against those who circulated information designed to damage him – the anticipation of which might account for some of the hedging in western reports that Prokopchuk may have had a KGB past.

Still, for all its huffing and puffing, Russia said it would accept the result. And, aside from the diplomatic defeat and obvious loss of face, the victory for the South Korean, Kim Jong-yang, is probably not the worst outcome for Moscow. Prokopchuk remains one of four Interpol vice presidents, and Russia enjoys generally good relations with Seoul.

The whole affair could thus be dismissed as a bit of a storm in a tea cup, especially as the day to day running of Interpol is done by its secretary general, a post currently held by a German, Juergen Stock. The role of the president and his deputies is more akin to chairmanship and steering, rather than hands-on administration. The real contest, it could be argued, will come in two years’ time when the post of secretary general falls vacant.

Yet what happened over the Interpol presidency should not be dismissed so lightly. It raises questions that deserve answers – questions that may not even be asked, now that a result has been achieved that is deemed satisfactory by the vocal western world.

Let’s look back, first, at why there was a vacancy for president in the first place. This was the position that had been held by Meng Hongwei, a Chinese citizen who was halfway through his four year term when he mysteriously went missing during a visit to his home country and was subsequently reported to be under arrest for corruption. Was there no opposition to Meng’s elevation to the presidency two years ago on the basis that he was a citizen of China, and a former law enforcement officer in a country with a hardly stellar record on human rights? If not, why not? Or rather, why – in US and UK eyes – was it apparently fine for a Chinese to hold the presidency of a global crimefighting organisation but not a Russian?

And related to that, why has there been no great outcry about the disappearance of someone who – however you might regard him – was a senior official in a major international organisation? Every once in a while his distressed wife is given a few moments of airtime to remind the world of his plight, but to no great effect. His, probably enforced, resignation seems to have been accepted with barely a murmur, allowing the election for his successor to proceed. Even if Interpol worried about future non-cooperation from China if it made serious representations on Meng’s behalf, why did it not keep his post open, at least nominally, in recognition of the way it became vacant?

Second, why did the US and the UK unleash such a desperate last-minute campaign to prevent Prokopchuk’s election? Diplomats generally prefer to operate incrementally and behind the scenes, so the fact that these two countries resorted to such open lobbying at such a late stage suggests two possibilities. Had they, perhaps, failed to foresee that the Russian could be elected, or had they in fact foreseen the possibility but failed to regard it as a problem?

Either way, it seems to have dawned on the UK rather late in the day that having a Russian president of Interpol did not square particularly well with its massive efforts to mobilise diplomatic action against Russia following the Salisbury poisonings. The resulting campaign against Prokopchuk’s candidacy was fierce, and waged on multiple fronts.

Lithuania and Ukraine threatened to leave Interpol altogether; the UK apparently talked of setting up a rival organisation. US congressmen said it would be like putting a fox in charge of the hen coop. Prokopchuk, for his part, was accused of being a Putin crony, of having a past in the KGB and, in his former capacity, of abusing the Interpol “red card” system to go after Russia’s political enemies abroad.

In any case, the 11th-hour lobbying effort was successful, and Prokopchuk lost by a wide margin. But this poses a third question. A determined alliance of the US and the UK, plus a number of countries with very real reasons to fear Russia (Ukraine, the Baltic states) proved capable of blocking the election of a Russian official to the presidency of an international organisation with 192 members – one of the widest memberships of any international group outside the United Nations.

Prokopchuk surely has his flaws. But the specific objections to his candidacy could be levelled against a host of international officials. Not a few have associations with their national leader (though not every Russian official is associated with Putin). Prokopchuk may or may not have had a KGB association (but I would judge it unlikely, as Russia’s interior ministry, governing the police, and Russia’s intelligence services are quite different and often rival animals). And the charge that he abused the “red card” system of international arrest warrants can be levelled against law enforcement agencies in many countries. One country’s criminal can be another country’s political dissenter – which is why the international asylum system exists.

All of which is not to absolve Prokopchuk but to ask whether the real obstacle to his elevation to president of Interpol had less to do with any of his failings but rather, and solely, with the fact of his being Russian. And if Russians conclude from this experience that their nationals have no prospects of advancement within such international organisations – fewer prospects, for instance, than a Chinese – then who would blame them for asking whether there is not one rule for Russians and one for everyone else, and whether it is worth even joining in the first place.

Club membership comes with rules that apply to everyone. If Russia comes to believe that club rules are applied differently to Russia (the World Anti-Doping Agency, for instance, or the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and now Interpol), is this not tantamount to an invitation simply to opt out or to behave badly – for instance, by using illicit means to access information that, as a member, it should be entitled to see. Of course Russia should comply, and be required to comply, with international rules. But that presupposes that Russia is treated as having an equal stake in applicable organisations and is judged by the same rules as others. In the matter of the Interpol presidency, that is far from clear.

====== 902 ========

THERESA MAY’S STRATEGY FOR GETTING HER BREXIT DEAL THROUGH PARLIAMENT? MASOCHISM

I am not sure it is going to work, but there is something admirable about the prime minister’s sheer resilience. When the first part of the Brexit deal was agreed and published last week she took questions from MPs for three hours. Today, she did the same on the second part of the deal.

In between she has held a news conference, been on a radio phone-in, given interviews, taken questions yesterday, flown to Brussels and will be back there on Saturday. All the while being howled at by members of her own party, who disagree with her, and shouted at by members of the opposition, who broadly agree with her. The voices on her own benches in her support are few and not exactly whole-hearted.

Yet I think the general public is impressed by her. There is some hard evidence for this. YouGov for The Times yesterday recorded a 13-point swing from “May should go” to “May should stay” in a week. But I also hear people on radio phone-ins saying how much they respect her for working hard and resolutely in difficult circumstances.

There also seemed to be less hostility towards her plan in the House of Commons today than there was last week, when most Conservative MPs who spoke seemed genuinely shocked that she had gone ahead and secured the deal she said she wanted.

Today, she offered a peace offering to two of her hard-Brexit critics, thanking Iain Duncan Smith and Owen Paterson, former cabinet ministers, for their ideas on how technology could solve the Irish border question in future. She refrained from pointing out that they might as well believe in UFOs.

But they were resistant to flattery and both asked her to get rid of the backstop – or, as I prefer to call it, the guarantee of an open border in Ireland.

She got absolutely nothing from the other hard Brexiters behind her either. They queued up to condemn the deal. Dominic Raab, recent Brexit secretary, said it was the “regrettable but inescapable reality that this deal gives more control away”. Boris Johnson had a pre-cooked soundbite: “We should junk forthwith the backstop.. which makes a complete nonsense of Brexit.”

Then the pro-EU wing of her party piled in from the other side, with Justine Greening and Dominic Grieve demanding that the decision be sent “back to the people” in a further referendum. And all the while the “back to the people” line was echoed from the opposition benches – except from the leader of the opposition himself.

Jeremy Corbyn delivered a well crafted speech. He is still getting better at this stuff, even if he did read out his speech with his head down most of the time. He had some good lines, but they were merely knockabout. Commenting on the emptiness of a lot of the non-binding rhetoric in the political declaration, he said: “She says ‘nothing is agreed until everything is agreed’; indeed, nothing is agreed.”

As the afternoon droned on, more Tory loyalists lined up to praise the prime minister’s hard work and determination and to declare the deal the best that could be achieved.

It was not obvious in the House of Commons today how Theresa May could possibly win the crucial vote on this deal – the withdrawal agreement and political declaration together. The hard Brexiters on her side couldn’t muster 48 letters to challenge her leadership, but they have many more votes than that against her Brexit deal.

She also loses votes from her pro-EU wing. And the opposition parties show no inclination to help her.

If she can win the vote, she seems to think she can do it through sheer persistence, persuading the public and through them their MPs by her sincere attempt to negotiate a deal that both respects the referendum and keeps us in a close economic relationship with the EU.

If the capacity to endure political pain could decide the vote, she would win.

====== 903 ========

'THIS IS WHAT IT’S LIKE TO TRY TO GET HELP FOR A CHILD WITH MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES'

It was at his best friend’s birthday party that the problem first arose. Full of cake and chocolate, Alex, then seven, had been running up and down the stairs when suddenly he threw up. An alpha male type with a tendency to show-off, he was mortified at this happening in front of his friends. No big deal – happens all the time. But after this, he developed a fear of being sick that was self-perpetuating. This fear actually made him nauseous. And it took over his life.

It wasn’t just a small fear, but all-encompassing. He wouldn’t eat breakfast before going to school and would wretch outside the school gates, trying not to vomit, too anxious and embarrassed to go in. Lunch was impossible – just the smell of school dinners made him heave and his packed lunches would go uneaten. Many mornings started with tears – and Alex wasn’t the tearful type, so we knew how frightened he was.

He no longer wanted to go to after-school activities, even drama club which he loved. The butterflies that anyone would get before playing team sports turned into full-scale nausea for him. In spite of the fact that he never actually vomited he was just too afraid of the “sickiness” overwhelming him, and the embarrassment this would cause.

A visit to his GP had been inconclusive. But by the time the school called me in to talk about the number of mornings he was arriving late due to the nausea, we’d sussed that it was anxiety-related and discussed it with his GP who agreed to refer him to our local children and adolescent mental health services (Camhs).

In children aged five to 15, one in eight have been found to have a mental health disorder. Statistics show that the vast majority of mental health problems are established at a young age and I worry that vulnerable kids like Alex will suffer lifelong problems. What’s more, I worry that the stretched mental health system will leave this new generation of youngsters with no support at all.

By the time Alex had been referred to Camhs, I was beside myself with worry. My handsome son looked grey and miserable and became quite introverted. He’d lost so much weight. At times he was angry, other times tearful. Cajoling him to do the thing he feared – eat, go to school, go to a friend’s house – would only make him retreat further. After a six-week wait and a phone call that got us a cancellation appointment, Alex had his first session with Janette, a Camhs counsellor.

I knew my son was a tough nut to crack. Both cocky and sensitive, he often behaved to others like nothing bothered him. But Janette was patient and reassuring – with both of us. For the next 14 months Alex had weekly sessions with her – sometimes with me beside him, other times while I sat in the waiting room. She would get him to draw his feelings, show her what the “sickiness” looked like in monster form, or teach him breathing techniques to help him calm his anxiety. She got him to talk about his feelings and learn to recognise his fears. After a while he started to trust her.

Eventually they devised between them a step-ladder of micro-stages – little manageable steps that would eventually take him to leading a more normal life. This meant cooperation from the school. But while his teacher was very patient, it was only after Janette came for a meeting with the school administration that everyone committed to the “step-ladder” plan.

Progress was slow and far from linear. Where school attendance improved and he might manage a few mouthfuls of sandwich at a table outside the canteen, the smell of hot dogs at a premier league football match still led to a full-blown panic attack that had Alex running for the turnstiles. Friends’ parties were out of the question.

Through it all, the sessions with Janette, while never fun, were the constant that kept him on track. His anxiety, she told me, was not uncommon among children his age, who are starting to find their place in the world and becoming self-conscious. She was quite confident that he would improve eventually.

And she was right because one day something clicked. Before he’d reached the final “step”, the anxiety was gone, never to be mentioned. And while the symptoms have momentarily returned a few times when he’s faced a new challenge, now 18 he’s thriving – and infinitely more compassionate as a result of his experience.

I cannot stress enough how helpless we felt before we got Alex the right help. Without Camhs and Janette’s patience, I dread to think how different his life would be now. My son should not be considered “one of the lucky ones” for receiving treatment that he deserved – but with so little in the way of adequate support for all those who need Camhs, perhaps he is. Without meaningful action, even fewer children will receive the help they need. The government must listen and take these statistics seriously; if it underfunds Camhs, the results could be devastating.

Names have been changed

If you have been affected by this article, you can contact the following organisations for support:

mind.org.uk

beateatingdisorders.org.uk

nhs.uk/livewell/mentalhealth

mentalhealth.org.uk

samaritans.org

====== 904 ========

‘DAMN THOSE EUROPEANS ‘JUMPING THE QUEUE’ AND TAKING ALL THOSE JOBS WE’D RATHER NOT DO ANYWAY’

At last, our prime minister has explained why we’re sick of Europe; because the Europeans have been coming here to “jump the queue”.

To take just one example, across Britain there are Polish dentists, even though there are thousands of British citizens who aren’t dentists. The EU may object that those people have never shown any interest in dentistry and don’t know anything about teeth, but that’s because they hate Britain.

Because once the Europeans aren’t allowed to jump the queue, you’ll get someone BRITISH, instead of being forced to allow some Pole to poke you about. You’ll have a four-inch hole in your lip and your wisdom teeth will be sticking out of your nose but it will be a BRITISH disfigurement.

It’s the same on these farms. You get a huge queue of British people begging to pick brussels sprouts all day in Lincolnshire, and the Poles push in and say, “No, let ME spend 16-straight-hours bent double in a field until I can’t feel my fingers and I could be fumigated for a month and still stink of brussels-poxy-sprouts, ME ME ME,” and the British miss out. We’re being deprived of the opportunity to enjoy this sort of freedom and it has to stop.

If we end up with no deal, this will work out perfectly. Because we’ll all be surviving by growing sprouts in a mound of earth we’ve set up by the bath, so we’ll be able to pick them whenever we please.

Theresa May gave extra details to her proposal, when she said the Europeans jump in “ahead of engineers from Sydney or software developers from Delhi”. Is that the EU rules then? We need an engineer to build a bridge, and there’s one from Sydney who wants to move here and do it, but they’re not allowed, because we have to give the job to a random Romanian. In the interview, they say, “I not engineer but have many time walk across bridge, and blow up bridge many time in Fortnite computer game, so understand what is bridge”, and we have to give them the job. No wonder people here voted to leave and Australian cricketers get annoyed and cheat at cricket.

She was also quoted as saying it was unfair, because “people coming here because of free movement don’t need a visa, and others do”. So the prime minister’s complaint is that EU citizens jump the queue ahead of other people wanting to move here. So that’s why people are fed up with the EU. Brexit supporters want to make it easier for people from the rest of the world to come here, but because of daft regulations that favour Europeans, we can’t let them in.

So they’ll be delighted when we’ve finally left, and at last we can have a couple of million Syrians and Somalians over here straight away.

You can understand the exasperation with Europeans coming to Britain, and expecting to be treated as normal citizens. Because we wouldn’t dream of jumping the queue if we ever went to Europe.

There are 300,000 British living in Spain, but 40 per cent of them are pensioners, so it’s not the same. Because whereas Poland sends us useless people like dentists and plumbers and builders, we send Europe our citizens who are vital to the economy, performing essential tasks such as completing word puzzles, and living in a country for 15 years without learning how to count to three in the language.

This is the trouble with the EU, it’s all one way. British citizens are allowed to live and work in Europe without a visa, then in return we’re supposed to let them live and work here, without even having a visa. It’s like when you go round someone’s house and they make you a cup of tea. Then when they visit you, they expect you to make THEM a cup of tea, the cheeky bastards.

But the prime minister may have another reason for making these comments. Once a week, she has to offer something to the angry Brexit people to try to keep them on side, and that was this week’s present to them. As the vote on the deal gets nearer, she’ll say, “This morning I had a productive and encouraging discussion with Monsieur Barnier of the EU, and the one remaining sticking point is they come over here, bleedin’ hordes of them, like bloody ants they are, they get off the boat, go straight down the council and they’re given an hovercraft for free, just like that, I’m telling you.”

But at least it’s becoming gradually clearer what the deal will be that we sign up to: an agreement that nothing is ever decided, that we have a permanent transition period, and agree that at all times there will be a crucial summit coming up in the next three weeks, at which everything will be decided, and this will last forever.

And throughout these transition periods, we have to abide by all the laws of the EU, paying money into it without having any say in what it does, which is handy as that’s exactly what the angry anti-European people claimed was happening when it wasn’t true. So the most fervent Remainers will be happy because we really will be doing whatever Jean-Claude Juncker tells us to, and the Brexiteers will be delighted as they’ll have plenty to fume and seethe about forever, going redder in the face every day until their veins stick out nine inches above their forehead, the way they like it. See, it’s all going to turn out fine.

====== 905 ========

I’M A SYRIAN NURSE AND THIS IS WHAT IT’S LIKE TO WORK INSIDE MY COUNTRY’S WORST REFUGEE CAMP

There are no doctors in al Rukban camp, but people call me doctor because I try my best to treat increasing cases of disease among the 45,000 people. In reality, I am a nurse who spent 15 years as the head of intensive care nursing at Palmyra City Hospital before fleeing to al Rukban in southeast Syria where I have lived for three years.

My wife is a midwife, and in total there are six nurses and three midwives in the camp, as well as dozens of volunteers who took a one month nursing training course at a nearby US military base. Sometimes we know how to deal with a medical condition – but we also live in constant fear of doing something wrong.

For over a year, al Rukban was under siege by the Assad regime, which last month cut off the few remaining supplies of food into the camp. For months, the health situation has been appalling – we have been without basic medicine and unable to access qualified doctors. If we wanted medical supplies, we had to buy them through the black market and smugglers, often at four times the actual price. Since the regime’s siege intensified in October, seven people – three children, two women and two men – have died.

Earlier this month a UN aid convoy arrived, to the immense relief of everyone in the camp. The regime had repeatedly delayed the convoy’s arrival and we feared it would never come. Instead, it helped to bring joy and vital aid to a practically abandoned community through the provision of food supplies and vaccination points for the camp’s children.

But as helpful as it was, the food supplies can only last 10 to 15 days. On top of that, because Assad’s regime wouldn’t extend the UN’s time in the camp, nearly 3,000 children remain unvaccinated.

As we feared, the convoy supplied little in the way of medical equipment, bringing only anti-inflammatories and vitamins for the women and children. And there was no coordination and consultation with the medical staff in the camp who could have told the UN what was needed. As things currently stand, there are no promises of another convoy because, frankly, the UN doesn’t know whether the regime will allow them to send in more aid.

We gave the UN a list of around 150 people who are critically ill but they do not know whether they can help them by sending them to Syrian or Jordanian hospitals. When the delegation arrived at the camp, I asked them to visit 37-year-old Osama Al-Abdullah, who was dying of an infection he sustained while in Jordan for surgery. Their answer was that they only came to analyse and examine the situation; they couldn’t offer him anything. They then visited Osama and took several photos. He died the same evening.

Since al Rukban formed in 2015, it has yet to receive adequate medical aid. Before last week’s delivery, the last time any humanitarian aid entered the camp was 10 months ago. Another wait for aid will likely kill more of al Rukban’s residents, many of whom are suffering from health problems caused by hunger.

Because of the lack of food we have many cases of anaemia, especially among women. Complications in pregnancy are also common due to poor nutrition and lack of proper sanitation. My wife advises pregnant women and performs scans with the ultrasound scanner we have at our medical point, but she only has a few simple surgical tools for a natural birth. Many children are born in poor health and in need of an incubator, but like the scarcity of food and other medical equipment in the camp, there are none.

One of my darkest moments was when I realised I could not help a 10-month-old baby with severe diarrhea. He had been suffering for a week but his distraught mother could not afford the medicine he needed. I sat next to them both and couldn’t help but feel helpless and weak. We needed to calibrate his electrolytes using special drugs like potassium, but without a means of curing this woman’s baby all I could do was share her tears. Half an hour later, he passed away.

When we lose a child here, I feel like a father losing his child in front of his eyes, unable to save them. For the actual parents of these children, that pain is even more pronounced.

Heavy storms, in the meantime, have hit Syria, making the situation here worse than it already is. Mud houses covered in tarpaulins and fabric have been destroyed. And as winter draws in, the situation is only going to deteriorate.

We hear that Russia and Jordan are pushing to close al Rukban. They want us to return home but that would mean returning to regime-controlled areas where we could be subject to arrest and forced disappearance by the regime.

We have said it before, and we will say it again, we reject any settlement or return to areas under the regime’s control except under the following conditions: we will return if there is a political solution in Syria that guarantees we will live in peace; if it has been agreed by the UN Security Council; or if we will be protected by UN peacekeeping troops.

The residents of al Rukban camp are civilians, and we call upon the international community to protect us. Do not risk the lives of more than 45,000 people – 70 per cent of them women and children – by forcing us to return home without guaranteeing our safety.

Shukri Al Shihab is a nurse from Palmyra living in the al Rukban displacement camp

====== 906 ========

BREXIT DEAL: WHAT THE DRAFT POLITICAL DECLARATION BETWEEN THE UK AND EU MEANS

What the political declaration says: The future relationship will be based on a balance of rights and obligations, taking into account the principles of each party. This balance must ensure the autonomy of the Union’s decision making and be consistent with the Union’s principles, in particular with respect to the integrity of the single market and the customs union and the indivisibility of the four freedoms.

What it really means: The fourth paragraph of the draft goes right to the heart of the problem. The first half talks about the “indivisibility of the four freedoms” – namely goods, services, capital and labour.

What the document says: It must also ensure the sovereignty of the United Kingdom and the protection of its internal market, while respecting the result of the 2016 referendum including with regard to the development of its independent trade policy and the ending of free movement of people between the Union and the United Kingdom.

What it really means: The next sentence of the same paragraph puts up in lights that “free movement of people” will end. In the previous version, this was buried so deep some experts missed it. But if the freedoms are indivisible, that means the UK cannot have free movement of goods, services and capital. That contradiction is not solved by the rest of the document.

What the document says: The economic partnership should ensure no tariffs, fees, charges or quantitative restrictions across all sectors, with ambitious customs arrangements that, in line with the parties’ objectives and principles above, build and improve on the single customs territory provided for in the withdrawal agreement which obviates the need for checks on rules of origin.

What it really means: The sentence in the first draft that caused Dominic Raab to resign as Brexit secretary is still in there, about building on the single customs territory, only now it has “and improve” in as well, as if that makes it better from the point of view of someone who doesn’t want a single customs territory (fudgespeak for a customs union).

What the document says: The parties envisage that the extent of the United Kingdom’s commitments on customs and regulatory cooperation, including with regard to alignment of rules, would be taken into account in the application of related checks and controls, considering this as a factor in reducing risk.

What it really means: This paragraph referring to “checks and controls” cleverly leaves out “at the border” from last week’s version. This is an important win for Theresa May, in allowing future regulatory checks to be carried out at the point of despatch or arrival.

What the document says: Noting that the United Kingdom has decided that the principle of free movement of persons between the Union and the United Kingdom will no longer apply, the parties should establish mobility arrangements, as set out below.

What it really means: The section on mobility now starts by asserting that “free movement of persons” will come to an end. Someone has joked that “freedom of movement” is being replaced by “liberty of mobility”, but that is not (yet) fair.

What the document says: The parties agree to consider conditions for entry and stay for purposes such as research, study, training and youth exchanges.

What it really means: Specifying the possible purposes for which EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens in the EU might “stay” is new.

What the document says: Within the context of the overall economic partnership the parties should establish a new fisheries agreement on, inter alia, access to waters and quota shares.

What it really means: Scottish Conservative MPs warned the prime minister that they could not accept fishing quota shares being included in the future trade deal. But they have been. More trouble ahead.

What the document says: Both parties affirm that the achievements, benefits and commitments of the peace process in Northern Ireland will remain of paramount importance to peace, stability and reconciliation. They agree that the Good Friday or Belfast Agreement reached on 10 April 1998 by the United Kingdom government, the Irish government and the other participants in the multi-party negotiations must be protected in all its parts, and that this extends to the practical application of the 1998 agreement on the island of Ireland and to the totality of the relationships set out in the 1998 agreement.

What it really means: The explicit reference to the Good Friday/Belfast Agreement has been added, and the phrase “must be protected in all its parts”. But this won’t be enough to reassure the DUP or Conservatives worried about Northern Ireland being kept in parts of the EU single market when the rest of the UK is not.

What the document says: In setting out the framework of the future relationship between the Union and the United Kingdom, this declaration confirms, as set out in the withdrawal agreement, that it is the clear intent of both parties to develop in good faith agreements giving effect to this relationship and to begin the formal process of negotiations as soon as possible after the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the Union, such that they can come into force by the end of 2020.

What it really means: The section on the timetable for negotiating the full trade treaty has been expanded, but with little actual substance. Instead of “using best endeavours to ensure” the treaty can take effect by the end of 2020, it now speaks of the “intent … to develop in good faith”. Which sounds a bit weaker to me, but I’m not an international trade negotiator. As Nick Macpherson, the former permanent secretary to the Treasury, commented: “With no legal status a political declaration can be all things to all people.”

====== 907 ========

HOW ARE MPS COPING WITH BREXIT? THE AMOUNT OF BOOZE THEY DRINK GIVES IT AWAY

It’s getting like the last days of the Roman empire, is Brexit Britain. According to the Government Hospitality Service (chummier cousin of the Home Office’s “hostile environment”), vast sums of taxpayers’ money are being expended on booze. Our rulers knocked back some 4,000 bottles of wines and spirits last year, 20 per cent up on 2016, the year of the EU referendum and the arrival of Donald Trump. By the way, researchers at Kings College London blame Brexit for a relative rise in the use of tranquilisers after the vote. (Antidepressant prescribing in England rose after the UK voted to quit the European Union, in stark contrast to widespread decreases in the prescribing of other medicines).

There’s also been a huge increase in the number of ambulance call-outs to deal with people zonked out on the synthetic cannabinoid spice. And how did Theresa may get through her latest week of Brexit hell? With her “rock” of a husband, Philip – and with a few tumblers of Scotch.

It seems we cannot get through Brexit whilst compos mentis, which seems plausible, with our rulers turning to the bottle to deal with the pressure. Some of the wine was consumed after last week’s marathon cabinet meeting to approve Ms May’s EU-UK withdrawal treaty. Or perhaps the convivial event was in reality a “lock in”, designed to prevent her rivals briefing against her and her text before the No 10 machine got its story out first?

Of course, politics and alcohol have always mixed well. It isn’t all that new. The most famous drunk ever was George Brown, lost to history but in his day a power in the land – deputy leader of the Labour Party, deputy PM, de facto, cabinet minister, massive personality and one of that select group of statesmen unlucky enough to have been photographed after falling over in the street. As foreign secretary in the 1960s, the legend goes that he was once on an official visit to Chile and he asked a beautiful creature in scarlet for a dance at an official reception. The subject of his advances – he had more than one weakness – declined the invitation: “I’m sorry sir, there are three reasons why I can’t – you are blind drunk, this is not a waltz but the Chilean national anthem, and I am the Cardinal Archbishop of Santiago.”

Sadly, the story is untrue, but I much prefer the line his prime minister, Harold Wilson, came up with after one of Brown’s many attempts to resign from the government after he had rendered himself “tired and emotional” as Private Eye always called it. When a colleague attending some ministerial committee asked Wilson where George was, he replied “he told me he’s been thinking. Or least I think he said ‘thinking’”.

Westminster is full of bars, still, open all hours and long benefiting from yet another public subsidy denied to most other businesses (and in stark contrast to the battering the pubs have received from HM Treasury). It is perfectly possible, if honourable and right honourable members are especially busy to spend every waking, or not so awake, hour propping up a bar in some corner of the mother of parliaments. The Sports and Social Club Bar, which had little to do with sport it must be said, was shut down last year after a scrap in which someone got glassed. So much for the rules of debate and the crusade for law and order.

Nor has the Strangers Bar, for the convenience of members and their guests, been a stranger to booze-fuelled civil disturbance. Because of the risk of legal action, and because it reads so much better in terse, dry terms, I have taken this quite deliberately from the Wikipedia entry for Eric Joyce, Labour member of parliament for Falkirk from 2005 to 2015:

“Joyce was arrested at 22.50 on 22 February 2012 in the Palace of Westminster by the Metropolitan Police on suspicion of committing assault. He was reported to have attacked as many as six politicians, including a Labour whip, after having gone “berserk” following a dispute with a group of Tory MPs sitting nearby. He headbutted and punched the Conservative MP, Stuart Andrew, after striking Labour assistant whip, Phil Wilson, while Wilson was attempting to restrain him. He also headbutted Thurrock Conservative councillor, Ben Maney, and punched Basildon Conservative councillor, Luke Mackenzie, both of whom were attempting to break up the incident. Two more Conservative MPs, Alec Shelbrooke and Jackie Doyle-Price, were also caught up in the fracas while attempting to intervene and calm Joyce down. A door window was smashed as Joyce attempted to resist arrest before being removed by police and taken to Belgravia police station.”

Still, most of the boozing is done quietly at corner tables or leaning on the bar where they swap gossip, tell dirty jokes and bemoan the state of the world they were once idealistic enough to imagine they could change. I myself once spent an evening doing just that with the late Charles Kennedy, matching him drink for drink. I can’t remember much about it. And we all know what a tragic end awaited him. Becoming Liberal Democrat party leader merely opened up fresh opportunities for refreshment, as you get invited as a part of the “constitutional wallpaper” at those grand functions for visiting presidents and monarchs, and having a few helps can get you through often dull events and company. And it becomes habitual: Wilson probably knocked back too much brandy after a tough day holding his government together, and Margaret Thatcher might have cut down on the whisky a bit. Tony Blair, even, acknowledged that he found himself becoming too fond of a bottle of red wine.

After Brexit, I suppose one of the few advantages for “Global Britain” will be the opportunity to import yet more alcohol from ever more exotic corners of the globe. A disproportionate quantity of the Mongolian gin, Kenyan liquers and Tongan vin rouge will be heading to London, SW1 0AA.

====== 908 ========

'I’M A SURVIVOR OF THE 7/7 ATTACK – AND THIS IS HOW MENTAL HEALTH CUTS HAVE DAMAGED MY RECOVERY'

Thirteen years on from the July 2005 London bombings, it seems we have made little progress when it comes to supporting victims of terror with the subsequent mental health issues that tend to arise after surviving an attack.

According to a survey released by the campaign group Survivors Against Terror, of which I am a part, hundreds of survivors of terror attacks claim to have received no mental health support due to the NHS crisis.

As a survivor myself, I am deeply saddened by the outcome of the report. It does, however, come as little surprise to me, as this is incredibly reflective of my personal experience after surviving 7/7.

I received no support at all. The only contact I had after 7/7 was with the police, which was, in fact, detrimental to my recovery. There was little consideration for what I had just experienced; I was deeply traumatised, and was expected to answer police questions, made to feel as though I had done something wrong. While I appreciate that the police are required to do their job and needed to speak to survivors, the manner in which this was done was highly insensitive.

As time went on it became increasingly apparent that as my mental health deteriorated, there would be no access to the support I needed. I was unable to eat or sleep, had terrible nightmares and flashbacks and was unable to travel on public transport for fear of having anxiety attacks. I was forced – as many have noted in the report – to access private treatment, a huge financial burden.

The injuries I sustained weren’t visible and as result, weren’t prioritised. At the time, widespread mental health provision for people in my situation simply did not exist, and as a result I was required to seek support out for myself.

This made the circumstances even more difficult, and placed a great amount of pressure on my family who supported me endlessly. To this day, I still struggle with all of the side effects of having survived 7/7, but have still been offered no support.

We have been consistently promised by successive governments that support for survivors of terror attacks will improve, but this report shows that little progress has been made in the past 13 years, and the mental health support required remains inaccessible at the most important time.

Surviving trauma has deeply varying impacts on an individual’s mental health. It requires immediate, personalised and effective long-term care; the longer we allow survivors to suffer on their own, the more prominent underlying issues become, and in many cases it can have devastating effects, including the risk of suicide.

Overall, this is a symptom of a wider issue, of a society that is not protecting the most vulnerable, as well as an overstretched and underfunded mental health service.

Survivors like myself are being consistently let down and treated with disregard by the government. But it shouldn’t be too much to ask that 13 years after 7/7, and considering the wider stigma surrounding mental health, that we treat survivors with the dignity and respect they deserve.

It is glaringly apparent that swift action needs to be taken to ensure that the survivors of terror attacks receive the treatment they require. In the meantime, the only hope I can cling on to, is the possibility that this report will influence change, and terror survivors will no longer have to suffer as I and many others have.

Sajda Mughal OBE is chief executive of JAN Trust

If you have been affected by this article, you can contact the following organisations for support:

mind.org.uk

beateatingdisorders.org.uk

nhs.uk/livewell/mentalhealth

mentalhealth.org.uk

samaritans.org

====== 909 ========

‘WHY DO WE STILL NEED FOREIGN AID? TO KEEP US SAFE IN A DANGEROUS WORLD’

The world is facing a vast variety of threats that continue to risk human security and stability across the globe. Long-term conflict and instability in the Middle East, South Asia and Africa has led to forced migration and violent extremism, resulting in millions of people living in unspeakable situations. Two billion people are affected by instability, conflict and violence.

Elsewhere, persistent poverty, high levels of inequality, corruption and poor governance threaten stability and growth. Not only do these problems stifle development and cause endless human suffering, but they affect the UK’s security and prosperity too.

It is in both our interest and that of the countries in which we work that the government plays a leading role in responding to these issues. That is why the government established the Conflict, Stability and Security Fund (CSSF) and the Prosperity Fund, both of which bring together expertise from across government departments to help directly tackle the root causes of insecurity.

However, these funds must be transparent. Taxpayers should be able to see where their money is being spent and what impact it is having.

The work of the CSSF and Prosperity Fund is guided by the National Security Council. As chair of the National Security Council Sub-Committee that oversees both funds, I am working to ensure that they are accountable and measurable against their intended objectives.

The Prosperity Fund promotes widespread economic growth that is needed in middle-income countries to lift people out of poverty. Despite recent advances, these countries – including India, Colombia and South Africa – remain home to around 60 per cent of the world’s poor. The Prosperity Fund has found innovative ways to help developing countries to improve their infrastructure, skills, trade and business environments; introducing to them sustainable models of trade and growth, rather than reliance upon traditional aid.

As part of my ambition to make the programme more transparent, we are today publishing the annual report of the Prosperity Fund. This details the innovative and systematic work being undertaken to promote prosperity, in support of some of the world’s most vulnerable people, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and, at the same time, our national security objectives.

Similar to the Prosperity Fund, the CSSF uses a combination of UK aid funding and non-aid funding, giving government greater flexibility to respond to both long-term conflicts and unforeseen crises. In practice, this has included supporting programmes to combat extremism, terrorism and serious organised crime, as well as leading on the UK response for the relief operation in the British Virgin Islands and Turks and Caicos Islands following Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Both programmes have much to be proud of.

The Prosperity Fund is working to provide countries with greater access to the finance they need for their own development and prosperity. In the Caribbean and southeast Asia, it is helping to implement pre-disaster insurance to lessen the impact on lives – and livelihoods – when disaster strikes.

In Mexico, it is enabling alternative access to financial services where currently only 37 per cent of the adult population has a formal bank account, and, in Ghana and Sierra Leone it is applying expertise from the Bank of England to help better protect their financial sectors.

The Prosperity Fund has supported anti-corruption activity, in support of the return of $321m (£249m) of stolen assets to Nigeria. This is vital to countering the disproportionate impact of corruption upon women, and the poorest in society.

Over the past three years, the CSSF has transformed the way that government responds to conflict and insecurity. It has reached more than 70 countries, providing life-changing support to millions of people.

In Iraq, the CSSF helped to rebuild essential infrastructure in areas liberated from Isis, clearing Mosul of nearly 600,000 explosive devices, and allowing 3.6 million people across the country to return home and safely access basic services. Meanwhile, in the UK, the CSSF’s contribution to the global coalition has supported efforts to cripple Isis’s ability to recruit, incite attacks and inspire support, making British streets safer.

The CSSF and Prosperity Fund are making lives better, both at home and abroad. Over the next year, I will continue to drive improvements in how we support global security and prosperity, and listen to the views of experts within and beyond government. I want this vital component of the aid budget to not just be spent effectively, but to continue to make this nation proud of our role in the world.

David Lidington is the chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and minister for the Cabinet Office

====== 910 ========

CRYPTOCURRENCIES ARE ABOUT TO BECOME WORTHLESS – AND THIS IS WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN THEY CRASH

The crash of the cryptocurrencies has happened, but does it have further to go?

Wednesday saw wild gyrations in the price of bitcoin, the largest and most widely traded of the currencies, with the price dipping close to $4,000 before recovering sharply. Unsurprisingly the bulls (yes, there are some still) saw this as solid support, a sign that this was a wonderful buying opportunity, while the bears (a rather larger band) claimed it was a typical suckers’ rally.

So what should we make of this?

First a quick point. This is that any asset that can move more than 10 per cent in a day is not a currency. There is a lot of history about money and the classic functions of a currency are that it should be a unit of account, a medium of exchange, and a store of value.

Anything that is so volatile cannot be a satisfactory unit of account. It is itself stable so you can’t measure other values against it. It can be a medium of exchange but you would have to fix the transaction price instantly, and in any case the capacity of even an established cryptocurrency to handle a mass of transactions is limited. As for store of value, well, it clearly isn’t.

So this is an asset, but an asset without obvious intrinsic attractions, like fine wines, vintage cars or gold. A member of staff at the Bank of England has just carried out an unofficial analysis of cryptocurrencies, and he is pretty negative. Mind you, this is not nearly as negative as the comments by the general manager of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, who famously described them as “a combination of a bubble, a Ponzi scheme and an environmental disaster”.

Right now, one of two things is happening. We may be seeing a repricing of this asset class. Or we may be catching an early signal that it will completely disappear: that cryptocurrencies are worth nothing at all, zero, zilch.

To claim that something worth thousands of dollars now could be worth nothing at some stage in the future, might seem both shocking and unreal. Yet there are many instances where a prized asset becomes valueless, or almost so. Right now, there are some assets that are riding high: modern art, witness that shredded Banksy picture.

But there are others that in real terms trade at much lower prices than a generation ago: Victorian furniture, old postage stamps. In between are assets that have fashionable sectors and unfashionable ones: a 1950s Rolex wristwatch vis-à-vis an 1890s gold pocket watch. One is worth thousands, the other just the weight of gold.

It is hard to see lines of code having intrinsic value, so it is at least plausible that cryptocurrencies are worthless. But are they?

The first, the repricing argument, turns on whether they are useful. If you want to make payments below the radar of government scrutiny, then they clearly are. But whatever you buy or sell has to remain below the radar too. If someone starts driving a new Rolls-Royce but there has been no transaction on their bank account, the tax authorities might reasonably ask where the money came from. Think of the way there has been a clampdown on offshore bank accounts and how large cash transactions are becoming more closely examined.

So the argument that bitcoin will still have some value turns on whether it will still be useful as a below-the-radar medium of exchange. There is certainly a need for this (and I am not making a moral judgement, simply a practical one) as we have seen the global demand for cash, particularly dollar and euro notes, surge in recent years.

But if national governments clamp down, as they may, it will be easier to hit holders of cryptocurrencies than holders of folding dollar bills.

If you cannot spend a bitcoin, then it does indeed become useless. You cannot put it on the wall, or wear it on your wrist. Anyone who holds them will scramble for the exit, raising whatever cash they can. And there is at least an even chance that this is what is happening now.

====== 911 ========

THERE IS STILL A WAY FOR THERESA MAY TO GET OUT OF THIS BREXIT MESS – BUT IT WOULD INVOLVE WORKING WITH THE OPPOSITION

There may an elegant way out of the current political crisis. The prime minister could offer a pact to Labour and the opposition parties: support a people’s vote where the government’s deal is an option, drop any demands for further negotiation, and in good faith support the outcome of the vote whatever it is.

If this offer fails, then each opposition MP should be invited to sign up to the pact even if that means defying their party whip. The people would then, in spring, vote for which of the three options they preferred: deal, no deal or remain. No second choice allowed; everything kept simple. The government would then have time to make its case to the electorate and would be committed to making March 2019 postponement arrangements with the EU, and expediting referendum legislation through parliament.

Steven Fogel

London NW11

If there were to be a second referendum on whether we should leave the EU, and the result was 52 per cent in favour of remaining and 48 per cent in favour of leaving – an exact reversal of the first referendum – what would happen then? Would the leavers demand the right to another referendum? Would we go for best of three?

Penny Little

Oxfordshire

Until now the press always referred to the “powerful” or “influential” European Research Group. Following recent events, is it now appropriate to use “ineffectual” or “incompetent” instead?

Alan Pack

Canterbury

From time to time, as a parish minister, I watched in horror as two otherwise sensible people stumbled into an appalling divorce. Both lives were wrecked, their finances ruined, their parents and children distraught, but they couldn’t retreat. Finally, exhausted by the process, they accepted a deal which left everyone worse off.

Does that remind you of something? Brexit has all the hallmarks of such a human tragedy, including cheerleaders encouraging this monumental act of self-harm. But is this really what you want – the nation roared on into hard times by the likes of Boris Johnson, Jacob Rees-Mogg, Jeremy Corbyn and the ghastly DUP?

Rev Dr John Cameron

St Andrews

It would seem that spin and jargon have now completely replaced any reasoned argument when our so-called leaders speak.

The latest phrases that must be inserted into any utterances from the Tory Party include that “it is the right deal for the UK”, despite it being the wrong deal for both Brexiteers and Remainers, and it is a deal that “will protect jobs”, but exactly how is not clear and indeed no lesser an authority than Mark Carney has announced that it will do the exact opposite.

G Forward

Stirling

Nicola Sturgeon has shown her true colours

Nicola Sturgeon was in her element in London yesterday, hobnobbing with national party leaders and announcing the formation of a “coalition of opposition”. This is completely in keeping with the SNP’s preferred stance as an opposition. Its perpetual opposition is to the UK and the British state.

We can see from the SNP’s lamentable conduct of government in Scotland that anything positive or constructive is beyond its understanding. The negative aspects of permanent opposition are what appeal to it and its nature as an agitprop campaigning party. All of this is to the detriment of Scotland and the Scottish people.

Jill Stephenson

Edinburgh

It’s time to rethink our national position on assisted dying

I found it really disheartening to watch Louis Theroux’s programme Choosing Death on BBC2 on Sunday evening.

For many years there have been various attempts in the UK to implement the right of people to choose their final day when suffering from a severe illness. A majority of British politicians keep ignoring the wish of the public for freedom of choice in “last matters”, thus violating human rights and creating immense suffering. A Populus poll of 5,000 people in 2015, the largest conducted on assisted dying, indicated that 82 per cent of the public supported assisted suicide.

It is time to call a spade a spade: to obstruct the implementing of assisted dying in the UK when it is available in many other parts of the world is ignorant, irresponsible and hypocritical. Opposing politicians are violating human rights and freedoms as basically acknowledged by the European Court of Human Rights in 2011.

Our politicians are paid with money from tax to represent people, which many no longer do. Opposing politicians need to be held responsible for their inactivity on something the large majority of people have wished for a long time: the right to pass away by choice and in peace at one’s home surrounded by loved ones.

It’s time to change the law. In the next election opposing politicians do not deserve a supportive vote anymore. It’s time to replace them by more responsible, humane and real representatives of the public.

Angela Washington

Address Supplied

====== 912 ========

MAY’S COMMENTS ON THE RIGHTS OF EU CITIZENS ARE DESPICABLY XENOPHOBIC

Faced with universal hostility towards her Brexit deal, Theresa May has resorted to a strategy she invariably turns to when she is in political trouble – she invokes racism. May insisted that her deal’s great merit was that it would stop EU migrants “jumping the queue”.

This the same Theresa May who as home secretary deliberately set out to create a hostile environment for immigrants. This is the Theresa May who was behind the notorious “racist van” fiasco. This is the Theresa May who promised parliament she would “deport first and hear appeals after”. This is the Theresa May responsible for the Windrush scandal. This is the Theresa May who took no action against Boris Johnson when he described Muslim women who chose to wear the burqa as “bank robbers“ and “letterboxes”.

The European parliament’s Brexit coordinator, Guy Verhofstadt, put Theresa May right when he reminded her that: “EU citizens living, working, contributing to UK communities didn’t ‘jump the queue’ and neither did UK nationals in Europe. They were exercising rights which provided freedom and opportunities. We will fight to ensure these continue in the future, especially after any transition.”

But Theresa May’s filthy tactics of division and hate are a reminder that the Tory Party remains the nasty party, and that it is a racist party from the top down.

Sasha Simic

London

I am struck by the comments of Theresa May that her Brexit plan will stop EU migrants “jumping the queue” when it comes to working in the UK.

How low the UK has sunk that its Brexiteer government is now resorting to spreading resentment towards European citizens, classing them as “queue jumpers”. These individuals took no part in this mess and work here legally and contribute to the country in so many different ways.

They have the same general right of freedom of movement that allows British people the opportunity to work in Berlin and Paris, or retire in Spain.

Even so, their reward seems to been an increasingly hostile atmosphere. Ms May makes no mention of those British “queue jumpers” in other EU countries, symptomatic no doubt of the same attitude that classes those Brits abroad as “expats”, while those from the other EU countries who come to work here are “immigrants”, an increasingly negative term.

Since the referendum in 2016 there has been an alarming increase in both veiled and more explicit verbal abuse to EU nationals, and this will no doubt increase as the negative impacts of Brexit become clearer. Scapegoats will be required. Step forward those innocent EU nationals in our midst.

The UK has taken a wrong turn, as exhibited by the dogwhistle politics of Theresa May and her Tory government.

As the UK enters full panic mode, the victim of a bitter and corrupted Etonian gamble gone very wrong, we must do all that we can to support those EU nationals in our midst and defy this vile populist rhetoric.

Alex Orr

Edinburgh

Why doesn’t Corbyn offer a Final Say?

Ms May is slowly gaining admiration, even among those who disagree with her policy, for taking on the extremists in her party. While she is doing that Corbyn is still refusing to comply with the wishes of the majority of his MPs, his party conference and, if opinion polls are to be believed, the majority of labour voters who all want a people’s vote.

He could so easily have become the hero of the hour by getting behind the second referendum and declaring that the people must not be bound by a decision made based on lies provided mainly by Conservative Brexiteers. That would have guaranteed him the lion’s share of the 48 per cent who voted against Brexit, and a lot of the Brexit supporters who want to change their mind. He could have been facing a Blair-style landslide vote.

Instead he looks to be as unelectable as Boris Johnson, determined to sacrifice his party and the country for his ego and political dogma. There is very little space between them. Corbyn is now looking like a dictator in waiting who is going to follow his path regardless of the wishes of his party or the people. I might have been prepared to vote for a dictator to stop Brexit and save this country, but I will not vote for one to carry on ramming something the people do not want down their throats.

Philip Wheeler

Address supplied

The Tories should be held accountable for austerity

I would like to know what the rest of the UK thinks about the deaths of thousands of ill and disabled people in the UK, all totally avoidable. Taxes for the rich should have been increased – instead what we got was cruel and unnecessary cuts. This was an act of democide. Criminal charges should be bought against the Tory government who caused it – not one member of the party but the whole lot. Instead they sit in their castles bickering like five year olds: these people run Britain! We have to ask ourselves, why are they still in power when they’re destroying so many lives and communities?

Stella Salter

Address supplied

Approve May’s deal – hold a referendum in return

Is it not time for responsible politicians to realise that the United Kingdom needs a solution to the current chaos? Would there be a majority in parliament for approving the deal which has been negotiated, but on the basis that there will be a second referendum to decide whether we leave on these terms or do not leave at all?

Obviously there will be Brexiteers who will oppose this solution. It would, however, enable there to be a solution which provides the certainty of a known basis for leaving (which most of us must accept is the best that can be achieved), but with the capability for the British people to have a second chance thoughtfully to consider, in the light of what has happened in the past two years, whether leaving the EU is really what they want.

Am I missing something?

Andrew Balfour

Witham, Essex

Brexit will only make austerity worse

Martin Deighton is to be congratulated on his rational, pragmatic analysis of the Brexit situation. I think many of those who have followed this sorry saga would agree with his final sentiments.

His logic is compelling, not least because no Brexit is best for the economy, and a strong economy, fairly regulated, allows us to put an end to the deprivations of austerity. Surely, in the light of the UN report on the state of poverty in this country, we should expect politicians to prioritise the lives of ordinary people through their actions as well as their words; no Brexit is the best way to do this. Unfortunately, the report, which is a shameful reflection of the beliefs and values of recent political leaders, is now being rubbished as, apparently, politically motivated. Really?

Of course, many politicians do not bring a rational or pragmatic approach to Brexit because they are driven by ideological motives of one kind or another. The Conservatives are in crisis for this reason. It also explains why we have seen such poor leadership from Jeremy Corbyn regarding Brexit. It seems to me that he is biding his time in the hope that the Tories will implode over Brexit, leaving him free to get elected. He is happy for us to leave the EU at almost any price. Then he can implement his programme free of EU regulation.

So he has abandoned the weak and vulnerable now and will do so in the future, in the hope of implementing some sort of socialist utopia eventually. But this may not happen, and what about helping people now? It isn’t good enough.

David Lowndes

Soberton, Hampshire

====== 913 ========

THERESA MAY'S BREXIT DEAL IS FAR WORSE THAN BRITAIN'S CURRENT AGREEMENT WITH THE EU

Ms May’s agreement is not good. But it is infinitely better than no deal.

However, Ms May’s deal is infinitely worse than the current deal the UK has with the EU.

We have full membership of a union of independent European nations.

We have 78 trade agreements in place that give our industries access to almost 200 global markets.

We are able to influence and change laws, policies and practices. Indeed, we have written and established many of them.

We have a host of opt-out clauses that specifically protect our national interests.

We have our own currency.

We have our border controls in other EU countries – that enable us to stop illegal, dangerous or criminal persons before they travel to the UK.

We have a special UK “rebate” that claws back almost 30 per cent of the contributions we make to the EU.

We are members of a common fisheries policy that has resulted in rebuilding cod stocks in the North Sea and has saved many species from extinction.

The CFP also gives our fishermen access to healthy fish stocks in Scandinavian, Dutch, Belgian, French, Portuguese and Spanish waters.

We have access to a local European workforce, who share our culture and most of whom have learnt our language.

These people work hard on our farms, in our market gardens, in our NHS, in care homes and on building sites.

We have free and open access to vital foodstuffs, commodities, medicines, vaccines, raw materials and manufacturing components as well as a host of other essential needs.

We have joint manufacturing and joint development and research projects with our partners in the EU and often funded by the EU.

We have access to healthcare in 27 other countries.

We have standardised mobile phone charges across 27 countries.

We can visit, live, work and study in 27 other countries.

The list of what the EU does for us seems endless and is ignored because we take it all for granted.

If, in 2016, the referendum had offered us these three deals:

1. No deal, through which which we will lose all of the above.

2. Ms May’s deal, through which we will lose most of the above.

3. The current membership deal, through which we keep all of the above – and we retain the influence, the power and the chance to improve it and reform it.

What choice would we have made then?

Martin Deighton

Woodbridge

What the Tories REALLY want

Mainstream media coverage of the latest unfolding of the Brexit pantomime has completely ignored a central aspect of the Conservatives’ carefully constructed strategy.

Theresa May’s inveigling on the steps of 10 Downing Street, in choreographed Churchillian tone, that their Brexit “deal” is “in the national interest” takes political spin to new depths of deception and distraction.

It should be crystal clear to anyone with any political nous that the shambolic last-minute-itis of the painfully drawn-out Brexit “negotiations” has been entirely deliberate, in order to create a pretext for the Tories’ phony two-year “transition period”. This cunningly kicks the Brexit can down the road, thereby enabling the Tories to cling on to power right up to the next general election, and thus wreak a further two-plus years of scorched-earth, class-driven damage to the social fabric of the nation.

The evidence for this is copious. Only last week, the Foreign Office’s former chief mandarin, Sir Simon Fraser, tweeted that “David Davis was a terrible Brexit secretary. He could hardly be bothered to go to Brussels.” If the Tories had been serious about negotiating a final settlement in the two years available to them, why on earth would May appoint an invisible minister to lead the negotiations?

There are so many ifs, buts and unknowns in the current chaotic situation that the only sensible political strategy is to stay “in the moment” and cling on to power at all costs. That’s the Tory strategy, and that’s one thing, at least, that they’re supremely skilled at doing.

Dr Richard House

Stroud, Gloucestershire

Having cake and eating it

When I read Simon Calder’s article about his conversation with Julia Hartley-Brewer, where the latter was demonstrating her usual total detachment from reality in what she was saying, I wondered where I had heard that kind of disregard for facts before. Oh yes, from Hartley-Brewer and her chums in the referendum: “We’ll get the cake-and-eat-it deal because the Germans want to sell us cars, the French their cheese and the Italians Prosecco.” Any argument to the contrary was haughtily dismissed just as in Simon’s piece.

And we wonder why Brexit is in such a mess (although it’s worth adding to this former Brexit minister Steve Baker on BBC Politics Live on Friday where he seemed to be suggesting that if he, David Davis and not to forget Suella Braverman had been left alone to negotiate we’d have a deal by now to satisfy the European Research Group, the DUP, every Irish person living and dead and, as a bonus, we’d know for sure who shot JR. Leaver, Remainer, visiting Martian, you can all count on Julia Hartley-Brewer to provide the comedy interlude to the current dire situation.

John Murray

Bracknell

Less is more

As Prince Charles celebrated his 70th birthday I was reminded that he has, quite rightly, expressed the wish for a “slimmed-down” monarchy. Along with a number of his other publicly voiced ideas, this would be very welcome.

While it is clear a majority of the British people wish the monarchy to continue, most of us, I think, would like to see a good deal less “flummery” and quite possibly, given continuing pressure on public finances, a rather more economical model.

Rev Andrew McLuskey

Stanwell, Staines

Trump’s priorities are terribly wrong

I find it incredibly disturbing that our president could withdraw federal payments to California as the fires continue to rage on. As someone who lives in California and is experiencing the horrible air quality and is seeing the destruction that it has caused, it is shocking that someone could be anything but sympathetic. There have been 76 deaths and 1,276 people still missing, with the fire contained only 55 per cent from the Camp Fire in northern California while the Woolsey Fire in southern California is 82 per cent contained after burning 98,362 acres.

California currently has the worst air quality in the world, and many schools have been cancelled due to the health risks of being exposed to it. Considering that the president’s move to send troops to the US-Mexico border is said to cost around $220m, despite the fact that the Pentagon has stated that the caravan does not pose a threat to the US and would take about a month and a half to even reach the border, I feel that the president has made it clear what he prioritises in this country, and it certainly is not the lives of the citizens.

Hana Agueros

San Jose, California

A National Health scandal

What does it say about the current state of psychiatry when a fraudster with fake qualifications can work undetected as an NHS consultant psychiatrist for 22 years?

Dr John Doherty

Vienna

====== 914 ========

OUR FIRST WORLD WAR CENTENARY COMMEMORATIONS IGNORED SOMETHING CRUCIAL – IT HASN’T QUITE PASSED YET IN EAST AFRICA

With the passing of the centenary of the end of the First World War, I am sure that many will have moved their thoughts onto Christmas. The thing is, the centenary has not quite ended. In Africa the war continued until 25 November 1918, and still has her ceremonies to come. Africa’s part in the First World War is often overlooked, but it was equally horrific.

On 12 August 1914, the first shots of the war between German and British troops were fired in Africa and not Europe – this happened in the German colony of Togoland (modern day Togo).

This was more than a week before Britain’s first casualty, private John Parr, who was killed near Mons. The next day in Togoland, the first major confrontation happened on 22 August with some 23 killed.

The East African campaign started on 15 August, with the Germans invading British East Africa (now Kenya) from German East Africa (now Tanzania) – the only piece of British territory that was taken by German forces in the war. Police corporal Murimi Mwiti observed the German column of about 200 men marching on Taveta. Standing his ground, he not only fired the first shot in East Africa, but also was the first British casualty of the campaign.

Further back at Taveta, the district commissioner had prepared well with what limited resources he had. Hugh La Fontaine watched the advancing column through his binoculars, and with his .375 hunting rifle he aimed and fired from the police station window. His target was the only mounted person in the column – one Herr Friedrich Broeker, who died of his wounds later that day, while the British retreated with his remaining 22 men. They were heading back to the Kenya Uganda Railway some 100 miles away.

At his peak, general Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck had 15,000 troops under his command. With the radio station in Togoland out of action, he was cut off from Germany. He considered his options, and took the line that the best thing was to tie up as many enemy troops as possible, thus keeping them away from Europe. He gave the British an incredible runaround, conducting a brilliant guerilla campaign.

By the end of the war, he was down to 1,300 troops all told, and was still outmanoeuvring the British, and had some 200,000 troops tied up. News of the Armistice was slow to reach Africa, and they were still fighting on 13 November. Under a white flag, he was approached by the British, and it was explained that the war had ended.

Von Lettow-Vorbeck was sceptical of the news, and insisted on speaking with Germany. It took until 25 November to get this confirmation and for him to get his troops to Abercorn (now Mbala) in Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) where he laid down his arms to general Edwards, but more importantly, he did not surrender. Von Lettow-Vorbeck returned to Germany with his 20 officers and 120 NCOs to a victorious welcome at the Brandenburg Gate, as the only undefeated German general.

While it was a very mobile war, it was just as hard as the Western Front, with tremendous pressure on the troops with terrible supplies of both food and water. Like the Macedonian Front, disease was also rife and decimating the battalions.

The most effective method of transporting supplies was by porter, and it was they who bore the brunt of the casualties with somewhere between 100 and 250,000 men lost. It was a truly a world war, with men from 23 different modern nations that fought and died in East Africa. It is important that this forgotten part of the war is not overlooked in what have been very Europe-centric celebrations so far.

Tom Lawrence

Ickleford

Brexit chaos

In light of the self-indulgent and self-defeating behaviour of our elected representatives (and the apparent ineptitude of the opposition), I find myself wondering how many of those who voted Leave would have done so had they realised that “breaking free” of being ruled in Europe by Brussels merely meant that we would instead be governed in London by cabbages.

Julian Self

Wolverton

I notice that Dominic Raab is making his first modest venture into populism, attacking Brussels "bullies". Boris Johnson might be impressed, but will certainly be alarmed at the arrival of someone else willing to say silly, catchy things on the road to Brexit.

Most politicians seek out soundbites, Tony Blair was an expert. But they are usually tools to sell a policy or plan. The problem with Raab and Johnson is that they have no policy, no plan, except to get the keys to Downing Street.

The rest of us should spend a few minutes on a "thought experiment", imagining a prime minister Johnson or Raab, or indeed Gove, Leadsom, Williamson, Javid or Hunt. All that I can imagine, in each case, is varying forms of confusion followed by disaster.

This deal is as good as we are going to get if we stubbornly insist on ending free movement.

John Gemmell

Shropshire

Perhaps the only silver lining in this week’s Brexit cloud has been the resignation of the strident and self-important Esther McVey.

In view of the shaming UN report by Philip Aston, can we now hope that Amber Rudd, in her new post as work and pensions secretary, has acquired the humility and compassion necessary to enable her seemingly shambolic department to lift the misery it has helped to create in so many lives?

Sue Breadner

Isle of Man

Theresa May’s ‘rock’

May I say that I admire you for your article about Philip May and his support for his wife. Like Theresa May, I would describe my own husband as my rock. I am slightly disabled by suffering from intense neuropathic pain, and when it’s bad, he is nothing but 200 per cent supportive.

Just because May is a politician doesn’t mean she isn’t a feeling person who is full of emotions. Irrespective of her political views, and whether or not I agree with them, we should never forget that she is a feeling human being and must have had some pretty down moments over the last few months. I’m very pleased that, like me, she has someone who always has her back. Good for you for highlighting that.

Steve Mumby

Bournemouth

A suggestion for struggling police

As our chief constables currently cry out for more resources, it is worth pointing out that thousands of hours are wasted by officers traipsing from their homes to parent stations to be briefed and then deployed to beats through which they've probably already travelled.

The return of the traditional police box, equipped with all mod cons and in mobile form to be planted in the hearts of whichever beats most justify them is surely overdue.

Then officers could travel directly from their homes to the relevant box to be briefed via Skype and start duty immediately.

The cost of implementing this constructive idea could be covered by selling off some of those multi-million pound white elephant stations that should never have been built in the first place.

John Kenny

Norfolk

====== 915 ========

BREXIT: THERESA MAY'S DEAL COULD LEAVE UK £100BN POORER EACH YEAR IN FIRST DECADE OUTSIDE EU, ANALYSIS SHOWS

Theresa May’s Brexit deal could leave the average person more than £1,000 worse off per year in the first decade outside of the EU, according to the first independent analysis of Britain exit terms.

As European leaders endorsed the prime minister’s plan, new research revealed the agreement could hit the UK’s economy by £100bn a year by 2030, equating to an average of £1,090 per person.

The report by the National Institute for Economic and Social Research (NIESR), commissioned by the People’s Vote campaign, also warned that the government’s preferred outcome could see a 46 per cent hit to trade with the EU and a 21 per cent fall in foreign direct investment.

The report said: “Our key finding is that if the government’s proposed Brexit deal is implemented so that the UK leaves the EU customs union and single market in 2021, then by 2030, GDP will be around 4 per cent lower than it would have been had the UK stayed in the EU.

“This is largely because higher impediments to services trade make it less attractive to sell services from the UK. This discourages investment in the UK and ultimately means that UK workers are less productive than they would have been if the UK had stayed in the EU.”

It comes as Ms May was due to brief her cabinet on a dramatic weekend in Brussels, where the EU signed off on her proposals after 18 months of fractious talks.

She will also make a Commons statement where she will tell MPs to set aside their opposition to her blueprint as “there is not a better deal available”, an opinion echoed by senior EU figures.

The EU’s sign-off paves the way for a Commons showdown over the deal, which officials in Brussels have been told to expect on 10 or 11 December.

Experts from the NIESR have been running the rule over Ms May’s withdrawal agreement since it was published 10 days ago, comparing the economic impact of staying in the EU with various scenarios.

As well as the Brexit deal, the NIESR also examined the “orderly” no-deal, favoured by Brexiteers, which would reduce GDP by 5.5 per cent, or £140bn a year.

If the UK remained in a customs union beyond the transition period, through the so-called Irish backstop, it would still mean a hit to GDP of 2.8 per cent a year, the equivalent of £70bn a year, the research found.

The full report will be unveiled on Monday by cross-party MPs including Liberal Democrat leader Sir Vince Cable, Tory MP Anna Soubry and Labour’s Pat McFadden.

Sir Vince, a former business secretary, said: “This is a million miles from what the Brexiters promised two years ago and will create decades of uncertainty for business and investors.

“It is just a promise of jam tomorrow from a government that has so far delivered nothing but chaos.”

He added: “If anything, the bleak predictions contained in this report are an underestimate of severe damage our economy will suffer in the future if this deal goes ahead because it takes no account of the draining away of confidence in business and the impact on investors who no longer see the UK as a gateway to Europe.”

His concern was echoed by Mr McFadden, a business minister under Gordon Brown, who said the government’s argument that this “terrible deal” was preferable to a chaotic exit was a false choice.

“This report shows that the reality of this deal will leave Britain tens of billions of pounds poorer than if we stuck with the deal we’ve got – inside the EU,” he said.

“That should be the real choice offered to the British people now. If the Prime Minister cannot get her deal through parliament the right thing is to go back to the public and give them the final say, this time setting the reality of Brexit against the option of staying in.”

The prime minister will step up her efforts to sell the deal on Monday, where she will urge MPs to back the plan when it comes before parliament in December.

She was expected to say: “This has been a long and complex negotiation.

“It has required give and take on both sides. That is the nature of a negotiation... And I can say to the House with absolute certainty that there is not a better deal available.

“My fellow leaders were very clear on that themselves yesterday.”

Rejecting the deal risks “more division and more uncertainty, with all the risks that will entail”, the prime minister will say.

====== 916 ========

TODAY MARKS 100 YEARS SINCE WOMEN GAINED THE RIGHT TO STAND FOR MP – BUT WESTMINSTER IS FAR FROM ACHIEVING GENDER EQUALITY

Over the past few days, I’ve been thinking about the first time I stood for parliament. It was back in 2001. Labour were onto their second landslide and I was going up against John Prescott. I was only 21, but I knew enough about politics to realise that I didn’t have much of a winning chance that time.

I had never really thought about standing as a candidate before. But all it took was that one campaign, a six-point swing to the Lib Dems and kicking the Conservatives down to second place for me to catch the bug. And I owe much to Polly Martin, then chair of the party’s youth wing, who told me all those years ago that I’d make a good candidate and asked me to stand.

Today marks the centenary anniversary of the Parliament (Qualification of Women) Act, which gave women the right to stand for election to parliament. This is a hugely important milestone, deserving of celebration across the country.

It’s a good excuse to leaf through the history books and remind ourselves of the brave women who first dared to enter Westminster and stake their claim to power. And to take stock of the amazing women from all parties currently representing their fellow citizens in the House of Commons, the Scottish parliament, the Welsh assembly, European parliament and our councils up and down the country.

But we must not get carried away with our self-congratulations. Being able to stand for election does not mean equal power in politics. It was only in last year’s general election that the total number of women MPs ever elected to the House of Commons overtook the number of men currently serving as MPs. Outside of parliament, only a third of councillors in England are women, with even fewer in Wales (28 per cent) and Scotland (24 per cent).

One hundred years on, this is simply not good enough. So where are we going wrong? There are five main barriers to women entering politics – I like to think of them as the five Cs: cash, caring, culture, confidence, and the closed club.

Political candidacy is costly. Estimates from a decade ago put the cost of a successful candidacy at £40,000. Of course, this is a barrier for both men and women. But when men take home two-thirds of our national income, having the cash is a significantly bigger problem for women.

Women still take on the lion’s share of caring responsibilities – whether it’s for children or elderly relatives. And parliamentary hours and rules are not geared towards accommodating those with caring responsibilities. I got first-hand experience of that earlier this year, when my constituents were cheated out of a crucial Brexit vote while I was taking care of my two-week-old baby.

In the cut-throat political system we have in the UK, you have to be prepared to put your head above the parapet and be confident in your ability to get the job done. But from a young age we tell girls that they shouldn’t blow their own trumpet – it isn’t “ladylike”. The unfortunate truth is that being a “lady” won’t get you the top job in this environment.

The male-dominated corridors of Westminster can also make women feel uncomfortable in other ways, which were highlighted by last year’s MeToo movement. Even women who are in a position of power are not safe from predatory men in parliament. While my party was in government, one ministerial colleague told me she would always ensure she was seated on the opposite side of the table when having a meeting with a particularly tactile minister.

And finally the closed club. Finnish parliamentarian Johanna Sumuvuori explained how her male colleagues on the finance committee would joke that they’d already made all the decisions in the Finnish parliament’s men’s sauna before they arrived to the meeting, dubbed the “sauna committee”. There might not be saunas in Westminster, but much of political decision-making is similarly concentrated in the hands of those inside the club, who tend to be men.

Much of the responsibility to get more women elected is down to political parties. I am proud that a third of Lib Dem MPs are women, and I know we must work harder still to spot and nurture talented women at all levels in our party. However, we can all do something to make politics more diverse. Here are three simple actions each of us can take.

Count. Look at the number of men and women standing as candidates, becoming elected representatives, speaking at events, the split of journalist bylines in newspapers – and challenge parties, organisers and media outlets when women are not fairly represented.

Talent-spot. Do you have friends, family or colleagues who could be the next woman MP, MSP, assembly member or councillor? Then encourage them to stand. The #AskHerToStand campaign offers on how to do that as well as providing support for women candidates.

Speak up. Write to or go to see your elected representative, and ask them what they are doing to make politics more representative. It’s very hard for politicians to ignore even just a handful of letters about the same issue.

So, yes, let’s celebrate the centenary of women being able to stand. But let’s not pretend we’ve got this sorted. We are still a long way from 50:50 representation in parliament and in our other elected institutions. We know what the problems are, so let’s sort them, because it would be a tremendous failure if we have to wait another hundred years to achieve equal power in politics.

Jo Swinson MP is the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats

====== 917 ========

WOMEN MIGHT SOON FACE THE DEATH PENALTY FOR ABORTION IN OHIO, PROVING EQUALITY SOMETIMES GOES BACKWARDS

The US was once seen as the New World, and in many ways it still enjoys that status. It’s home to Silicon Valley, the hub of technological advances, and the American Dream is still beckoning millions of immigrants each year.

However, in other ways, many parts of the US remain stuck in the past – or are at least determined to return there.

Legislation that would criminalise performing abortions after a foetal heartbeat is detected – usually around the six-week mark – is one step closer to being introduced in Ohio, after the state’s House of Representatives passed the so-called ‘heartbeat bill’ last week. The proposed legislation makes no exception for cases of rape or incest.

If the bill becomes law, this would severely restrict the rights afforded to women. At the moment, abortion is legal in the state – but a viability test is required after 20 weeks.

Ohio legalised same-sex marriage in 2015, albeit only after the Supreme Court overturned previous court rulings that upheld a ban.

This hard-won victory was not, as some may have hoped, an indication that the state had become a champion of equality.

This is starkly evident due to the fact that the progress of the heartbeat bill has renewed interest in another proposed abortion law in Ohio: House Bill 565.

Under this proposal, a foetus would be considered a person from conception to birth, leaving those who perform or undergo abortions open to severe punishment – and even the death penalty.

This is the stuff of Handmaid’s Tale-esque nightmares: under the proposals, the rights granted to the foetus would be given greater weight than ever before, and women would effectively have no choice over what to do with their own bodies.

The proposals in Ohio show just how draconian lawmakers can be when it comes to women’s reproductive rights.

Furthermore, they serve as a reminder that just because a state has liberalised its laws in one area, it doesn’t necessarily follow that other legislation will go the same way, and it certainly doesn’t indicate that attitudes are generally becoming more liberal.

And this problem is not just restricted to the US.

The huge success of two recent referendum campaigns in Ireland, which saw same-sex marriage legalised and a constitutional ban on abortion overturned, signalled a refreshing sea change in a country that was so modern in some ways, and positively backwards in others.

But it also served to highlight the hideous hypocrisy of British politicians, who have allowed antediluvian abortion laws to persist in Northern Ireland. It’s the only part of the UK where a woman can still face a prison sentence for terminating a pregnancy, and where gay couples still cannot marry.

This sorry state of affairs only became harder to change when Theresa May entered into her toxic relationship with the DUP, which takes a hardline stance against abortion and equal marriage, on religious grounds. (Like many of the DUP’s other policies, this stance goes against what evidence suggests most Northern Irish people actually want.)

Of course, this disparity between Great Britain and Northern Ireland has existed for years in relation to same-sex marriage, and decades when it comes to abortion. People have long been railing against these bigoted, sexist and old-fashioned laws.

What’s different now is that the successful campaign to repeal the eighth amendment in Ireland – which effectively bans abortions – has made the problem harder to ignore. The movement lit a fire under campaigners in Northern Ireland. It showed that change can be achieved but it requires a sustained, vocal, organised and resilient movement.

And as the potential new laws in Ohio show, it’s best not to assume that a battle won means the fight is over.

There will always be those who see progress as the enemy, and recent global events have shown how easy it is for societies to regress. Defending equality requires constant vigilance.

====== 918 ========

WHAT MAKES DONALD TRUMP SO INTRIGUING? THE FACT HE CAN'T HELP SAYING WHATEVER IS ON HIS MIND

Stealth has never been Donald Trump’s strong point. With aggressive press conferences and blustering, hateful speech, inflicting the world with his innermost inane thoughts seems to be his version of political diplomacy. The US president’s refusal to openly criticise Saudi Arabia after the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi is one such example. His flat-out dismissal of the heads of the US Senate Foreign Affairs Committee over the same situation, provides another.

After calling on the president to launch an investigation into whether his ally and its leader, Prince Muhammad bin Salman, the man suspected by the CIA of ordering the murder, had anything to do with Khashoggi’s death, Trump’s immediate response was to double down on what we’d already heard.

Apparently unfazed by the brutal nature of the killing, as well as the mounting evidence against the Saudi state, he told reporters: “If we abandon Saudi Arabia, it would be a terrible mistake”. The mistake being that Russia and China could then become “enormous beneficiaries” of all the “newfound business” that would then be up for grabs if he so much as hinted at holding the nation accountable.

No surprise really: this is the head of the fake news brigade speaking. A man who just this week was forced to reinstate CNN reporter Jim Acosta’s press credentials after removing them for daring to challenge him during a press conference. The wellbeing of journalists is as much of a priority to Trump as maintaining his integrity, as his assertion that “maybe” Bin Salman “had knowledge” of the operation to kill Khashoggi and “maybe he didn’t” goes to show.

Nevertheless, there is something intriguing about Trump’s inability to employ tact or diplomacy in exercising his office. Not because it’s refreshing, nor because it is worthy of praise. There is an argument that at least we know what Trump is thinking – more than we can say for some world leaders, perhaps – but that would grant him too much power. What’s surprising is that, rather than a clever political choice, it appears Trump can’t help but say exactly what he means at that moment to maintain his staunchly protectionist approach to politics. And that’s how he came to being so bluntly honest about the US and its relationship to the controversial Saudi regime.

Odd, then, that Trump’s tolerance for the brutal honesty of others is so low.

As you’ll recall, earlier this year after Michelle Wolf’s routine during the White House Correspondents’ Dinner – an event he has avoided for the past two years – the president lashed out, hurt that a comedian would do something so questionable as to fulfil the their role as an amusing and political headline speaker. This year, “for the first time in decades, they will have an author instead of a comedian”, he tweeted. “Maybe I will go?”

Quick as ever, Wolf responded: “I bet you’d be on my side if I had killed a journalist”.

She’s only half-right. When it comes to Trump’s White House, moral corruption alone does not a friend make. It takes arms and billions of dollars worth of investment, too.

