In the late afternoon, the snow was sticky and heavy, and I felt like Bambi for a second time. I got a few solid turns in but mainly just shrieked my way down – no style, no technique, just one long fight to stay upright.

Myrkdalen is smack bang in fjord country, a fact that helped make the trip from there to our second base, the Vatnahalsen hotel, the most photogenic transfer on the planet. Boarding the hybrid Vision vessel, we gawped at the stupidly beautiful Unesco heritage-worthy Naeroyfjord, its rock walls reflected perfectly in the mirror-like surface of the water. The second part of the transfer – the Flamsbana railway – may not quite surpass it, but did its best, rivers slicing their way through deep gorges and waterfalls pouring down sheer cliff faces.

The hotel itself felt thrillingly remote. Owner Petter and his exuberant dog Viggo were there to meet us and show us around the place – a charmingly cosy bolthole, with chintzy décor and interiors that channelled a hybrid of Scandi style and granny chic, all floral curtains, tartan cushions, upholstered chairs, stark white walls and glossy dark wood floors.

It’s a popular place for touring – and there’s little option but to skin up, with only one small draglift in the area. So we did the next day, led by mountain guide Roald.

If Myrkdalen had been entry level touring, this was a step up. Rotten snow repeatedly gave way at the bottom of our ascent, while steep stints made trusting the skins a challenge. As the sun slowly rose and the climb got easier, we found our stride, going long stretches without pausing. I felt the heady rush of endorphins pumping through my body, and started to feel something approaching euphoria – why had I never done this before?

Two and a half hours after setting off we sat down for a quick lunch of Kvikk Lunsj (the Norwegian version of a Kit Kat) before tackling the next, steeper section for an hour or more. At 1,600m, I was ready to finish the “up” portion and begin our descent – or so I thought.

Some 100m or so of glorious skiing on soft, untouched powder, prompting a bath bomb of joy to start fizzing in my stomach, was followed swiftly by rotten, heavy conditions. I broke through the top layer of crusty snow more than once, falling softly on my side before righting myself, gritting my teeth and try, try, trying again.

I had my surge of panic. I looked at the soothing view. And then I had a full-blown Annie moment, deciding to stick out my chin, and grin, and say: “F*** it, let’s DO this!”

Further down the snow wasn’t so bad but the obstacles kicked in: close-knit trees and rocks that required dodging, with no choice about where to turn. Several times I felt on the cusp of hysterical tears but kept calm and carried on, concentrating on following Roald’s tracks while not hyperventilating.

Finally, the downhill was over – it was back on with the skins for a 20-minute push to get back to the hotel. Panting, sweating and incredibly emotional, I peeled off all the paraphernalia, purchased an extraordinarily expensive Coca-Cola and sat on the porch, silently gazing up at the majesty of Tarven and contemplating what I’d just done.

I’d climbed a mountain. A mountain.

I felt strong and brave and unconquerable. And, as I tucked into dinner that night, a thoroughly deserved plate brimming with salmon, roasted asparagus, potatoes and couscous, I felt something else too. Pride.

Lifts are all well and good but, if you want to see what you’re really made of, take a walk on the wild side.

Travel essentials

Getting there

Norwegian flies direct from London Gatwick to Bergen from £98 return. A direct train service runs from Bergen to Voss (210 Norwegian kroner or £19 each way), from where it’s a 30-minute taxi ride or free ski shuttle to Myrkdalen. Alternatively, a direct transfer from Bergen is available for £90 return.

Staying there

Freeride the Fjords packages start from 5,560 Norwegian kroner per person (£506), including two nights at Myrkdalen Hotel, half-board, a two-day lift pass, bus shuttle from Myrkdalen to Gudvangen, Fjord cruise from Gudvangen to Flam on the Naeroyfjord, Flam Railway from Flam to Vatnahalsen, and one night at Vatnahalsen, including breakfast, packed lunch, dinner, coffee and waffles. A certified mountain guide at Vatnahalsen is included in other packages, or can be booked separately for 5,500 Norwegian kroner (£500) a day for a group of up to six people.

====== 310 ========

HOW BIJLMER TRANSFORMED FROM AMSTERDAM’S NO-GO ZONE TO THE CITY’S MOST EXCITING ’HOOD

The mosaic art of the Growing Monument, a memorial to victims of a plane crash in an area of southeast Amsterdam known as the Bijlmer, sits among orchards and long green vistas with tidy apartments. I hired a bicycle to navigate the miles of trails around it, but that seemed unnecessary in hindsight. Around every bend, I’ve hopped off at an outdoor market, pottery gallery, photogenic mural or boutique showcasing chic dresses in African fabrics. The canalside route to the monument is a hike, but an eminently strollable one.

If you’d been here 30 years ago… well, you’d have started planning your escape the minute you arrived. Back then, tenements crowded this patch of land. Rubbish mounted, tossed out windows by low-income or no-income tenants. Not from the upper floors, though – those flats stayed mostly vacant, except when heroin addicts squatted in them.

Things only got worse. In 1992 an El Al cargo flight, doubling back to Schiphol airport after engine failure, ploughed into two identical towers, killing all 43 residents.

The disaster was one of Grenfell proportions for Amsterdam. An urban housing project designed in the late 1960s around the same idealistic principles as Erno Goldfinger’s Brutalist utopias in west London, the Bijlmer (official name: Bijlmermeer) ultimately fell short in almost every respect. Its zigzag apartment blocks, in honeycomb-like formations, isolated residents in a confusing labyrinth devoid of public transport and amenities. Elevated roads turned life at ground level into a dangerous desert. Construction sucked up public money at the expense of landscaping. The Bijlmer became a depository for arrivals from Suriname and the Congo.

And now it was a literal disaster area.

So few public housing projects from the 1960s have anything to celebrate. And yet this month, after years of reconstruction, the Bijlmer is celebrating 50 years as Amsterdam’s most hopeful, feared and now promising neighbourhood. There’s a programme of talks and exhibitions, reaching a climax on the weekend of 24-25 November, with screenings of films from around the world, Afrodance performances and the launch of “50 Years of Bijlmer”, a photo memoir by gallerist, broadcaster and Bijlmer pioneer Henno Eggenkamp.

Since the 1990s, the city has seen campaigns to raze its most heinous buildings and rebuild at a more human scale. It recruited young artists to join a “creative community” of vibrantly painted studios, subsidised theatres and museums. New cafes such as snug Oma Ietje – a de facto workplace for young freelancers – have brought the area to the verge of gentrification without being consumed by it.

Locals are reaping the benefits. Jenny van Dalen, a so-called Bijlmer Believer, moved into the area 33 years ago. She leads walking tours that you might once have classified as “ghetto tourism”, visiting monolithic highrises the likes of which rappers would use as video backdrops. But these days she fields requests from architecture students and city planners. “The rappers,” she says, “need something new to rap about.”

Nicknamed Street Girl of the Southeast, Jenny takes me to the new contemporary art space OSCAM, where an exhibit features photography from a nearby youth group.

We cycle on to Kleiburg, one of the last original honeycomb buildings – stripped back, renovated and sold as live-work spaces. As we approach, a self-styled “abbot” named Johannes van den Akker calls out to Jenny from his sweeping balcony. Johannes runs a commune from Kleiburg centred around a makeshift wood-panelled chapel. And to finance it, he’s begun producing small-batch ales from a cavernous microbrewery at a farm-to-table restaurant on the other side of the Bijlmer. We make plans to meet him there later.

But first we wheel across the fastidiously tended Nelson Mandelapark. A year from now the motorway along the park’s southern end will be rerouted underground and the surface level converted to greenbelt, linked with parkland further east. Hopes are it’ll lure people to the elliptical, aluminium-clad Parktheater, jutting over a pond in Mandelapark, past the outdoor sculpture that rises from the lawn like a phoenix, a symbol of the neighbourhood.

The lowrise estates rippling out from here integrate all the best ideas from Dutch social housing: tall, grandstanding windows, handsomely weathered wood-slat siding, jauntily painted doors and vast terraces overlooking canals. They house pretty much every one of the 150 nationalities living in the Netherlands today.

The Bijlmer’s actual birthday is still weeks away, and I’ve missed the art and music festival 24H Zuidoost, but there’s always some sort of celebration underway here. Alighting at a municipal square paved with herringbone brick, Jenny is unfazed to find a Ghanaian troupe in woven robes and kufi hats rehearsing for the perennial Dance with the Kings.

“One of my wishes was always to travel the world,” says Jenny. “I didn’t have the money, but the world is right here.”

At World of Food, I queue for crisp, charred Surinamese chicken noodles, called tjauw minh. The Surinamese founder of the food hall, Sarriel Taus, introduces me to chefs from 26 international stalls, recruited from the immediate area. The multi-storey hall was once a derelict car park.

“There are no more no-go areas in this neighbourhood,” says Taus. “There’s a lot of entrepreneurial spirit in these flats. It’s made the worst place in the Bijlmer into somewhere people want to go to sample the culinary richness.”

The Saturday evening crowds are as diverse as the staff. But on weekdays, Taus tells me, the suits migrate here from over the train tracks, a symbolic frontier people once called the Iron Curtain. The offices and arenas on the other side earn more per square kilometre than anywhere else in Holland.

But when it comes to lunch, says Taus, “they all want to be here”.

Travel essentials

Getting there

Eurostar connects London and Amsterdam from £70 return.

Easyjet flies from London Stansted to Amsterdam Schiphol from £35 return.

Staying there

B&B Zoh, in the Heesterveld Creative Community, offers doubles from £53, room only.

====== 311 ========

WHAT IT'S LIKE TO SLEEP FIVE METRES UNDERWATER

Think of your dream holiday. Is it you, sitting in a stilted Maldivian villa, enjoying the sunset?

That was the dream, although that is about to change. Now the ultimate bucket list hotel stay won’t be overwater, but rather five metres under it.

Conrad Maldives Rangali Island has just opened The Muraka, an underwater residence where guests can sleep with the fish in a luxury bedroom kitted out with thousand-thread-count bed sheets, Aesop soap and near panoramic views of the surrounding coral.

I slept there, and I’m here to tell you it’s incredible. And it should be: it costs around $50,000 a night.

For that price, The Muraka is not just a hotel room, but an entire experience; from a private jet to on-site staff and a heaving menu of activities and adventures.

I was met at the main Conrad resort by my personal butler – a 27-year-old Frenchman who hates wine but will drink champagne when forced to by bossy guests – who was at my beck-and-call for the duration of my stay at The Muraka. He ushered me to a dock where my private boat idled, waiting to whisk me away to my temporary home. Only as you approach on a speedboat or via the very long bridge that connects it to the mainland – the two arrival options until the private seaplane dock is finished – does the residence come into focus.

The Muraka takes its name from the Maldivian word for coral. If Frank Lloyd Wright designed a reef, it would look like The Muraka: all sleek lines and white angles. The boat pulled up and I was ushered out of the sun where I was greeted with a glass of champagne and the rest of the staff who would be catering to my every whim for the duration of the stay. (More champagne? Midnight chips? Massage while eating chips and sipping champagne? Everything is on demand for guests at The Muraka.)

The upper level of The Muraka looks like your average stunning boutique hotel, albeit with a superior view thanks to floor-to-ceiling windows, which look out over the turquoise Indian Ocean. There’s a deck with an infinity pool; multiple patios for sunset watching and sunrise yoga; a bar and a formal dining room for entertaining; an all-glass master bedroom suite; a Japanese toilet which lifts its lid when you enter the room; and plenty of space for your staff to bunk down next door. This is all nice, if expected – but it’s what lies five metres below that makes The Muraka truly exceptional.

Step into a lift tucked into a discreet corner of the living room, descend one flight, and the doors open to a floor-to-ceiling window. It doesn’t quite register what you’re looking at until the fish start to dart past.

Round a corner and you’re in an aquarium, suffused with a blue-green light. To the right, is a walk-in wardrobe with a glass wall for fish peeping. To the left is the bathroom with glass walls so tropical fish can watch you brush your teeth.

The centrepiece is the bedroom, in which a curved glass ceiling gives 270-ish-degree views of the water. It was slightly overwhelming: thank goodness my butler was on hand with a shot of espresso, a glass of champagne and the wifi password, because the place needed to be posted on Instagram immediately. After posting enough pictures to make my friends (and enemies) jealous, I settled into a comfy chair to watch the underwater drama while the butler gracefully ignored my quiet humming of “Under the Sea”.

After a dinner on the back deck, prepared by the chef, I bedded down with the fish. There’s a curtain that can be drawn over the bedroom’s curved roof, but I wanted the experience of waking up underwater. At night, the ocean is dark, rendering the fish invisible – but not silent. The night was filled with mysterious clicking noises coming from the roof, strange popping sounds and a dull roar. (When I asked the resident marine biologist the next day, she explained that the parrotfish liked to nibble on the algae that grows on the building’s seams, clacking on the glass with their giant teeth.)

Waking up underwater was as surreal as falling asleep under it. The sunlight slowly filtered through the water, filling the bedroom with a dreamy blue light. Cracking open an eye, I made direct eye contact with a puffer fish. After lounging in bed, watching angel fish and the alluringly named oriental sweetlips darting around, I headed upstairs where the chef had created a smoothie bowl, green detox juice, and several cups of coffee.

As a guest of The Muraka, I could have enjoyed a champagne brunch at the resort’s undersea restaurant, Ithaa, which was the first of its kind when it opened in 2005. But instead, I descended back to the depths of The Muraka to let the magic last a little longer.

Details

The Muraka at Conrad Maldives Rangali Island costs from around $50,000 a night.

British Airways flies to Male from London from £831pp.

====== 312 ========

HOW TO PLAN THE ULTIMATE DOLPHIN-SPOTTING TRIP IN THE UK

“There’s one!”

“No there’s one!”

“I think it’s just waves, darling.”

Standing on a freezing beach in an October cold snap looking for signs of dolphins is not a job for the faint-hearted. Good job Moray Speyside is absolutely stunning this time of year (and, I imagine, all year round). As the waves surge dramatically to the shore, the noise is overwhelming and the view unparalleled – but the dolphins are, sadly, few and far between.

My pal Simon, my two daughters, aged seven and five, and I are here because we’ve heard that the region has some of the UK’s most spectacular land-based dolphin-spotting opportunities.

The Scottish Dolphin Centre, situated at the mouth of the River Spey near Fochabers in the northeast of Scotland, is managed by international charity Whale and Dolphin Conservation. Wildlife spots in the bay are (apparently) plentiful and include bottlenose dolphins, seals, osprey in the summer months and the very occasional otter.

The dolphins, part of a population of around 190 living in the Moray Firth all year round, come to the mouth of the river to feed on salmon and trout, sometimes staying for hours at a time. Our dolphin count is pretty low this chilly morning but centre manager Alison Rose explains why: “Sightings rates are higher in the summer, helped by the longer daylight hours and calmer seas which make them easier to spot.” The Moray dolphins are thought to be the most northerly resident bottlenose dolphins in the world.

The trick, Rose tells me, is to find a spot with good elevation and scan over the sea looking for any interruption to the water’s surface. She also advises looking for feeding birds over the sea as they are a good indicator that fish are around (and, in turn, dolphins). We’re able to spend a good amount of time at the centre thanks to its new sustainable, renewable biomass boiler which heats the shop, café and exhibition centre. It means opening hours can extend into the winter months and visitors can spot dolphins all year round.

Except us. We spend a long while in Spey Bay, but to no avail, though the waves were spectacular and every cluster of gulls got our hopes up. We head over to the little village of Hopeman, around 20 miles away, where a waitress had told us we might have more luck. Good vantage points include the East Beach car park, which looks directly over the beach, where the dolphins can often be spotted close to the shore.

Sadly not today. But we’re not ready to throw in the towel yet; we move on to Findhorn, 10 miles away and home to the famous spiritual community, The Findhorn Foundation, and one of the friendliest places on earth – walking down the street can take some time after you’ve greeted every man, woman and dog en route.

The sun is shining brightly despite the freezing temperature, the sky is a delicious blue and the colourful beach huts dotted along the shore give the place a Cape Cod feel. But we don’t want cod, we want dolphin. We sit and lament the lack at the well-loved Bakehouse cafe in the village, where the children draw pictures of what they imagine the dolphins look like and we drown our sorrows in cake.

By now, we’ve seen enough video footage to know that the sight is a spectacular one. We’ve read that dolphins exist in very close family units (or pods) of all sizes, from small to around 25-strong. We also know that they can live to around 40 years old (which blows our minds), that sometimes the males live in bachelor herds and that each dolphin has its own unique whistle recognisable to its family. We may not be expert dolphin spotters but that doesn’t stop us becoming expert dolphin trivia collectors.

Dolphins have been recorded in the Firth since 1900 but today, instead of the glorious close-up display of video fame, all we manage is a few tantalising black dots in the distance, albeit hugely gratifying ones. They are wild animals, after all – there were never going to be any guarantees that we’d see them.

Nevertheless, we’ve spent time in one of the most beautiful and unspoilt places in the UK, learnt an extraordinary amount about our bottlenosed pals and had some very nice cake to boot. We’re going home happy – and if our local pub quiz ever decides to include a dolphin round, I’m quietly confident we’d come top.

Where and how to spot dolphins in the UK

Moray might be beautiful but there are other places around the UK to spot these glorious beasts.

Durlston Head, Dorset

This has its own dolphin and whale observatory and you can sign up to an alert system to hear about activity as it happens.

Chanonry Point, Scotland’s Black Isle

One of the few places in the UK you can see dolphins right up close.

Cardigan Bay, Wales

It’s home to the UK’s biggest pod of dolphins and claims to be the best place in Europe to spot the mammals.

Prawle Point, Devon

The rocks and coves here are famed for their dolphin sightings.

Porthgwarra, Cornwall

Considered the best spot in the county to see dolphins, porpoises, basking sharks and sometimes even whales.

To get the best from your dolphin experience, pay close attention to tide details; try to pick a day with midday low tides and with the largest difference between low and high tide.

====== 313 ========

PLANE TALK: HOW BIG BUSINESS FAILED TO SPOT LOW-COST AIRLINE SUCCESS

Barely had I finished listening to “Failures, Flops and Flaws” on Radio 4 than VLM Airlines, a regional carrier based in Antwerp. became the latest European airline to fail.

The thesis of this intriguing edition of In Business is that failure is essential to success.

Low-cost aviation in Europe, especially from a UK perspective, has proved formidably successful. In the past quarter century, aviation has been transformed from an expensive minority sport to an everyday experience that enriches economies and lives.

The flight path to success has been littered with failures. Casualties of the unforgiving economics of aviation include large enterprises such as XL Airways and Monarch.

Many minor airlines such as VLM, EUjet and Debonair also closed down. They used the wrong kind of planes (usually small, old and inefficient), and lacked the scale to compete effectively.

Yet it is startling how many good ideas were abandoned by players who you would imagine might know better. Time after time, successful businesses and businesspeople failed to identify the green shoots of success in the low-cost airlines they created.

While the European Union created the conditions for easyJet and Ryanair to flourish with the “open skies” package in the early 1990s, it was built on pioneering liberalisation in the early 1980s involving Britain, Ireland and the Netherlands.

A young entrepreneur named Richard Branson, who had just started up Virgin Atlantic between London and New York, spied the possibility of a link from the Dutch city of Maastricht to Gatwick, where his transatlantic airline was based. He chartered a Vickers Viscount propeller plane to fly it.

The prop-hop from Maastricht was intended mainly to help fill the daily jumbo jet from Gatwick to Newark. But it mean that, for the first time, British travellers had a low-cost option to fly to a corner of Netherlands that also gave easy access to western Germany and eastern Belgium.

Yet even though Virgin’s Dutch adventure put the airline a decade ahead of rivals, it was quietly dropped after five years.

“There was concern that a low-cost, no-frills airline was detracting from the Virgin brand in the marketplace,” Sir Richard (as he had become) later told me. “We certainly missed an opportunity. It would have been fine for us to have both brands.”

It was one thing for an entrepreneur who had cut his teeth in the music business to fail to spot a gap in the market, but Britain’s biggest holiday company did exactly the same.

Thomson (now TUI) owned Britannia Airways, a giant charter carrier. Someone at the Luton Airport HQ had the bright idea of deploying spare capacity to open a scheduled link to Belfast. But the concept of making scheduled flying feasible for normal people was undervalued, undermarketed and soon abandoned.

Two decades later, the second attempt at scheduled operations, branded Thomsonfly, compounded the failure: it launched at Coventry Airport, a facility which was just 13 miles from Birmingham Airport, and about 13 times more difficult to reach. It did not last long.

Then there is the curious case of Go.

The track record of big airlines starting budget brands is terrible: Air Canada’s Zip, Delta Airlines’ Song and United’s Ted comprise a good definition of commercial failure.

Yet when, in 1997, British Airways chose to take on easyJet and Ryanair with low-cost competition from an in-house start up, the airline did many things right. “Operation Blue Sky” led to Go, created at arm’s length from BA by a visionary chief executive, Barbara Cassani.

The airline made a shaky start (the first Go flight was hijacked, from a publicity perspective, by easyJet’s founder, Stelios), but began to prosper. British Airways could have used Go to turn a profit on loss-making routes, but instead in 2001 let it, er, go for £100m in a management buy-out.

Those buyers turned a very handsome profit the following year, when easyJet paid £374m for Go – which it later subsumed.

Since then, British Airways’ short-haul services have changed to the point where they more or less mirror Go. The process would have been so much smoother had unprofitable routes migrated across to Go. BA’s failure to identify success cost it time, money and even reputational damage.

During its brief existence, I flew on Go from Stansted to Copenhagen. I must make the trip again soon to visit the place where much of Ruth Alexander’s excellent radio programme was recorded: the Museum of Failure in Helsingborg, southern Sweden, showcasing some of the business world’s worst ideas. You can reach it easily from the Danish capital.

Twenty years ago the trip to Copenhagen on Go cost £100 return; in November this year Ryanair will take you there and back for £25. Against fares like that, VLM Airlines will not be the last airline to fail.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 314 ========

I AM A TRAVEL WRITER AND I REFUSE TO DOWNLOAD INSTAGRAM. THIS IS WHY

Gazing out over the picturesque expanse of Lisbon from my hotel’s rooftop bar, its pastel-shaded, higgledy piggledy buildings interspersed with verdant trees, I try to take it all in. The sky, amber-hued as the sun sets; the Tagus river and accompanying Ponte 25 de Abril bridge, sparkling roguishly in the distance; the storybook-perfect Castelo St Jorge, set high upon a hill in all its glory. I look, and look and look – but I don’t reach for my smartphone.

Yes, ladies and gentleman – I may be the only travel writer on the planet who doesn’t have Instagram. I’m not alone but I’m certainly in the minority if a hasty Twitter poll is anything to go by; of 57 respondents, 82 per cent claimed to be on the ’gram.

Friends and colleagues never fail to meet my app absenteeism with disbelief. “But you go to all those amazing places!” they say. “It’s such a waste!”

My standard response is a curt, “I don’t like taking photos or looking at other people’s.” Which usually stumps them.

They’re right in one respect. I do get the opportunity to visit some phenomenal spots – luxury hotels with infinity pools, white sand beaches lapped by cobalt waves, Michelin-starred restaurants with tasting menus so damn good I feel drunk on decadence. (Do you hate me yet?)

Much of it is Insta-heaven, just begging to be caught, captioned and catapulted onto the internet’s favourite photo-sharing platform. But, while I obviously love heading out into the world to explore and experience, I haven’t the slightest desire to distil each destination into one staged shot, timed to perfection and filtered beyond all recognition. That doesn’t feel like telling the story of a place to me.

By its very nature, Instagram demands that users pick and choose what to show (and show off). Inevitably it’s the ugly, the uncomfortable or the just plain boring aspects of travel – and of life – that get edited out. Journalists are, first and foremost, storytellers, and the idea of highlighting only the bright and shiny parts of somewhere – the parts guaranteed to garner those all-important likes – doesn’t sit quite right with me.

It probably (read definitely) sounds pretentious, but the most exciting aspect of travelling for me is the act of wrestling each fresh place into language: how to best describe the colour of those leaves? The taste of that dessert? The feel of that breeze? How to extract the essence of each experience in all its gritty, gorgeous reality? A picture may be worth a thousand words, but a thousand words can reflect a trip in a way one over-saturated image cannot.

Travel influencers also have a lot to answer for when it comes to promoting “bad behaviour” to get the money shot – just this summer, influencer Elisabeth Brentano, otherwise known as Elizabeth on the Road, started her petition “Encouraging the social media generation to behave more responsibly outdoors”, calling for individuals to understand the negative impact their actions can have on the planet.

Of course, that’s only half the story. Truth time: what really freaks me out about Instagram is the idea of how closely tied my fragile ego would be to my travels.

It would be nice to think that, when we post things on social media, it’s done merely for the pleasure of sharing our lives and connecting with others; we just want to be part of that big, beautiful conversation.

It would be nice – but it wouldn’t be true. For most of us, it’s the endorphin rush of seeing those numbers climb – follows, likes, shares, comments – that keeps us coming back for more. Whether we like it or not, we are all approval junkies for whom those figures are inherently bound up in our self-worth. In the era of the ubiquitous selfie, how could you not associate thousands of likes with the idea that thousands of people like you? And, conversely, that a dearth of interactions means you’re essentially an online pariah?

It happens on every platform, but Instagram is one of the worst offenders when it comes to filtering the realness out of real life and making us feel our value can be measured numerically.

To be frank, I just don’t think I could hack it. I can already see how things would go – here’s me enjoying that Lisbon skyline. Here’s me honing the shot to find the best angle, filtering it so the buildings really pop, cropping out the messy table in front of me. Here’s me posting it. And, several hours later, here’s me checking it, and rechecking it, and rechecking it, ad infinitum, to see how many interactions I’ve had. I ignore the sweeping landscape before me; I ignore the cocktail in my glass; I even ignore the person sitting opposite me. I don’t need a crystal ball to see my inescapable Instagram future.

Instead, free from such constraints, I’m able to live – not just in the moment, but in the place. I devour the view with my eyes, rather than observing it second-hand through a screen. I savour each sip of the velvety espresso martini in my hand. I talk and listen and laugh with my companion, who is far more deserving of my attention than a collection of strangers online.

And that will always be worth more to me than a million meaningless pats on the back from people who don’t know me: the chance to turn outwards to see the world, rather than turning inwards so the world sees me.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 315 ========

THE TRAGIC NEW TRAVEL TREND FLASHING ALL OVER SOCIAL MEDIA: GETTING YOUR BUM OUT ABROAD

It was on an ill-fated trip to see the Northern Lights in February that I was first exposed to the concept of “cheeky exploits”.

As a vague vapour trail-like mark moved across the sky (unless the Northern Lights are strong, the naked eye will most likely see them in mono and the green hue will only be picked up by cameras, which don’t see with rods and cones), one of our group put down his equipment. Hurray, I thought – someone else is going to look at the Northern Lights with their eyes, instead of a wide lense – and then he started taking off his clothes.

In the snow, he stripped down completely, strode a couple of feet away down the garden with his back to us, spread his legs, thrust his arms skyward and screamed “Wooohooo!” as our host captured the event for posterity with his long exposure shot.

He must have caught my look of revulsion, because he apologised for offending the “ladies” and exchanged a look – if you’re female, you already know that look – with our host (who later informed me that I wasn’t “his kind of person”).

“I’m not offended,” I said at the time. Though I should have added, “I just think you’re repellent.”

Because repellent’s the word for the new ‘trend’ apparently sweeping the travelsphere. Buoyed by an Instagram account which has 86,000 followers, daring/sassy/pathetic (delete as appropriate) travellers are going to knock-out destinations, pulling down their pants and posing for a photo. Grand Canyon? Let me add another to the shot. Lol! To infinity.

The Cheeky Exploits account was first shared on a travel group I belong to, with a request for members to share their own bare-bottomed photos. Dozens did. When one person expressed disapproval, they were shouted down as a prude. And no one wants to be a prude.

But it’s not prudish to think pulling down your pants and flashing your bum isn’t appropriate tourist behaviour.

“I’m proud of my butt,” they say – because of course, this appears to be a trend started in America and perpetuated by American tourists.

“I don’t care if my mom sees the photo.” But it’s not about your 'mom', is it?

It’s about the people who live there. It’s about perpetuating the ugly American (and Australian and Brit) stereotype. Because if there’s one thing that links the bum cheeks on the Cheeky Exploits account, it’s that the vast majority are toned a pasty white.

I get it. You’re young, you’re proud of your pert bum cheeks, you think it’s great bantz to flash the world – I don’t care! I’m fearless! I’m a Cool Girl/Bro! Look at me roar!

But the photos don’t say fearless to me. Derivative, maybe. Attention-seeking, definitely. Desperate, probably. Offensive: indisputably. And not because of your naked bottom – as you keep saying, every time we look appalled, we’ve all got them; but because of the disrespect to the locals that you convey.

First world travellers are great at conveying that already, of course. Whether it’s French tourists shouting their way round churches in Venice, Americans breaking into the Colosseum or Jennifer Lawrence joking (because it’s always just a joke, get over it grandma) about scratching her bum on a sacred rock in Hawaii, no other group of travellers acts as if they hold the sites they’re travelling to see in such contempt.

For the selfie and belfie generation, it’s all about them. They pick their holiday destinations according their Instagram potential. They turn their backs to the sights so they can squeeze their face into the shot. Instead of watching the Northern Lights with their eyes, when they’ve crossed time zones and spent thousands to experience them, they watch them through the viewfinder, or strip off and scream to make sure they get that kerrazy profile pic that’ll break their “likes” record.

You’d think we’d have learned our lessons after a group of tourists (including a 23-year-old British woman) were tried for “obscene acts” by stripping on a sacred mountain in Malaysia. But we didn’t. Instead, the cheeky exploits crew rolled their eyes at the idea that to the locals, Mount Kinabalu was sacred and the subsequent earthquake was put down to the tourists offending the spirits.

It’s not even about religious offence, though. Two of the photos on the Cheeky Exploits feed appear to have been taken near where I live. It’s not a sacred site – it’s just a town. But I’m offended nevertheless. How dare someone come to my home and think it’s appropriate to flash their arse on the main street? If it was an old man in a mac, he’d be arrested. But because they’re young, cellulite-free and a dab hand with Instagram filters, it’s ok.

But it’s not ok. It’s not just desecration; it’s rude. I long for the innocent days of inappropriate selfies.

We’ve all got one, you say. Indeed we have. So do us all a favour and put yours away.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 316 ========

THE BALKANS MAY RANK LOW ON THE WORLD HAPPINESS INDEX, BUT HERE’S WHY I LOVE THEM

Balkan countries fare badly in this year’s UN World Happiness Report, prompting a rather memorable headline in the regional press: “Balkans Not Very Joyful, says the UN”.

The two worst Balkan offenders were Bosnia and Herzegovina in 93rd position – ranking well below Libya and dictatorships such as Turkmenistan and Belarus – and Albania which, in 112th position, narrowly beats Iraq.

But when asked my two favourite countries in the world, I will always put Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania at the top of that list. And I’m not – I don’t think – a misery tourist.

To many in Britain, the word Balkans conjures up brutalist, rotting tower blocks, tragic histories and intractable wars. On a recent trip back to London from Sarajevo, where I’m currently based, I was asked more than once whether I had “become a war correspondent”.

But so much time has elapsed since the conflicts of the early Nineties, and the Balkans – bar the more obvious destinations like Dubrovnik and Split – have the potential to bring a lot more joy to tourists.

The landscape that made Sarajevo so vulnerable to siege now makes it one of the most beautiful capital cities on Earth. It’s a city of twinkly hills, stunning minarets and imposing Austro-Hungarian architecture. And yes, there is sadness behind the clichés of a mini Istanbul, of East meets West – ethnic politics mean that, while mosques and churches still stand side by side, the country is becoming more segregated. But there’s also the simple joy of exchange. Unlike in more obvious tourist destinations, the people of Bosnia genuinely want to tell you their stories, and hear yours in return. Political torpor aside, there’s still a feistiness to the city, a terribly dark sense of humour, a real readiness to laugh and pour another rakia in the face of catastrophe.

Albania may score lower than occupied Palestine in the World Happiness Index, but you don’t get that impression on the ground. Some of my fondest travel memories come from this mysterious country – isolated almost entirely from the world under Enver Hoxha’s dictatorship. I remember staying for a week in a fortress (Kruje Castle) eating home-cooked food every evening within the fifth-century walls. Further north, in the mountains of Theth (one of the best undiscovered hiking destinations in Europe), I was happily foiled in my attempts to go walking by a local family who summoned me over to drink their homemade rakia, explained the history of the Accursed Mountains, then introduced me to the neighbours.

There’s something about the Balkan countryside which moves me in a way the ordered hillsides of Tuscany or the famous vistas in the south of France never could. The little-known train route from Bar, on Montenegro’s Adriatic coast, to Belgrade is one of the most stunning train journeys I have ever taken. Spanning 12 hours, 435 bridges and 254 tunnels, I found myself sitting in an old-fashioned dining car, feeling like a character in a Cold War film. And I defy anyone to take a train in the Balkans without being offered half your carriage mate’s picnic and a few stories, whether spoken or mimed.

Of course there is always the danger of romanticising places too much. These countries have deep, ingrained problems, which explain their rankings on the World Happiness Index: strikingly high youth unemployment, extravagant political corruption and, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Dayton Agreement – which ended the war but has made political progress almost impossible.

However, as the value of the pound falls and cities such as Venice and Barcelona experience chronic overcrowding, the appeal of the Balkans can only grow. The joy here isn’t to be found in ticking off the obvious. Yes, there will usually be a tower block peeping out of your photos. Yes, the provision for vegetarians sometimes involves the chef picking the meat bits out of the stew. No, you won’t find many boutique hotels to check into on Foursquare.

But these countries free your mind and allow you to experience joy in a way that obvious destinations simply don’t. Because you’ll come without preconceptions, meet some of the least dour people on the planet.

====== 317 ========

HOW TO FALL ASLEEP ON A PLANE

There are two types of people in this world – those who can sleep on flights, and those who can’t. The former spring out of their seat upon arrival at their destination, fresh-faced, clear-eyed and ready to throw themselves into the ways of a new country and culture.

The latter drag themselves sluggishly down the aisle, struggling to perform even the simplest of tasks, such as using the passport machine at security or articulating whether they’re here for “business or pleasure”.

If you happen to be one of these unfortunate souls, the start of any long-haul trip can quickly unravel as, both sleep-deprived and jet lagged, you’re barely able to function for at least 72 hours. But fear not – there are ways and means of securing a bit more shuteye. Here are our top tips for dropping off on board.

Grab a row

We all know the holy grail of sleep is managing to lie prostrate to create the illusion of being in a bed. Obviously you can guarantee this by stumping up for business class, but if you’re consigned to economy, give yourself a fighting chance by choosing a middle seat when booking. Couples and families are unlikely to go either side of you, preferring to stick together, and if it’s not a full flight you’ll have a greater chance of getting a row to yourself. Pick one towards the middle or back of the plane, rather than at the more popular front end of the cabin.

Should this fail, have a look around early on – can you spot any empty rows? If so, ask a member of cabin crew as soon as possible if it’s OK for you to switch and bag yourself some extra leg room.

Top tip: once you’re lying comfortably, make sure you put on your seat belt so it’s visible over the blanket. There’s nothing worse than being woken up by a flight attendant during turbulence to check you’re belted up.

Stick to your routine

It might seem silly, but preparing for “bed” the way you would at home means you’re more psychologically ready for sleep. Changing into pyjamas, brushing your teeth and removing your make-up/washing your face can all get you in the right mindset. If you normally always read before bed, do it now too – signal to your brain that the “being awake” portion of the day is officially over.

Get the right sleeping mask

There are sleeping masks and there are sleeping masks. As fetching as a faux-satin number with fun patterns might be, this is a practical item with only one real purpose – to block out the light so you can drift off. Plump instead for a functional black mask, with a soft lining and raised edges to create a truly dark interior.

Put in plugs

Just like a sleeping mask, the right ear plugs can be a game changer; for many people it’s the constant noise of the engine that makes it so hard to sleep on planes. It’s worth trying out a few different kinds beforehand to see whether you prefer the mouldable wax or foam variety – everyone’s ears are different, after all.

Take your own pillow

In the event that you have to sleep sitting up, one of those nerdy looking horse shoe-shaped neck cushions is actually very helpful – a lot more comfortable than trying to fashion the flat-as-a-pancake pillow provided into something remotely sleepworthy.

Switch off

Overstimulation is the enemy of sleep. As much fun as it is to catch up on all the films you missed at the cinema or play a game on your phone, using devices just before bed means your brain is all lit up like a Christmas tree. Plan when you ideally want to hit the hay and half an hour beforehand shut down the electronics – instead, do a bit of reading or, better yet, indulge in a 20-minute meditation to really calm the neurons.

Embrace booze

If you drink, having a glass of red wine, whisky, or whatever your chosen tipple may be in the hour before sleep can have a soporific effect. However, don’t overdo it – alcohol can feel like it affects you more at altitude and if you slip over into drunken territory, it won’t lead to the best night’s sleep. Plus having a hangover on a plane is far from ideal…

Scent yourself

The power of smell is more potent than you think. Using hand cream or essential oils which have sleep-inducing properties can help you relax and unwind. Scents that have a strong link with aiding sleep include lavender, vetiver, chamomile, ylang ylang, bergamot and sandalwood. Rub some on the back of your neck and dab a touch on your pulse points for some inner calm.

Drug up

While we don’t recommend trying to get class As through security, there are legal, over-the-counter sleep medications which can be helpful. Nytol, Kalms and valerian root extract pills are a gentle way of nudging you off to the land of nod. And if you happen to be passing through the US or Canada, pick up some melatonin from the pharmacy (they don’t sell it in the UK). This hormone is naturally occurring in the body, its main job being to regulate night and day cycles – darkness causes the body to produce more melatonin, which signals the body to prepare for sleep. It shouldn’t be overused, but pop one on a flight and prepare to drift off effortlessly; then pop another the first night of your trip to help beat jet lag.

No pressure

It’s easier said than done, but stressing about not being able to sleep is a sure-fire way of not being able to sleep. Try not to put too much pressure on yourself – instead just see it as a chance to rest your eyes for a bit. Get comfortable and relaxed, and remind yourself that it’s not the end of the world if you fail to get some shuteye. If you do, it’s a bonus. If you don’t… well, just hope they’ll accept your answer of “bleisure” as you stumble through security.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 318 ========

HOW TO GET OVER A FEAR OF FLYING

A quarter of people have a fear of flying and if, like me, you’re one of them, the very thought of getting on a plane can send you into a state of panic. I’m the one constantly checking the weather before I board a plane and gripping the armrest at the slightest sound or movement when in the air, unnerving the poor person sitting next to me.

My instincts tell me the sky isn’t a place humans should occupy, while everything from the cramped seating to the lack of control, makes me feel like I’m constantly in danger. But I desperately want to overcome this phobia which is why, after years of putting it off, I finally enrolled in a "Flying with Confidence” course run by British Airways .

I was surprised to see just how many people turned up for the one-day programme given at Heathrow airport. Around 100 nervous-looking people were waiting in a room, preparing to face the same fear as me; a fear which does not discriminate. While waiting, I chatted to an anxious Airbus engineer, whose fear was getting worse with every flight he took and a police officer who hadn’t flown in over 10 years because his phobia had gotten so bad.

But British Airways pilot Captain Steve Allright and his team spent the day talking us through everything you could possibly want to know about flying, from how a plane works to what techniques you can use to stay calm. The course concluded with a short flight to Bournemouth, where your newly gained knowledge was put to the test.

Amazingly, most people completed the full day, including the flight. I left that day, feeling like I had a new perspective on flying and a new-found confidence in the air. One week later, I was on a flight to Spain feeling fully in control of my fear. But what caused this change? Here are my 10 top takeaways.

Learn how a plane works

One of the main reasons people are scared of flying is a lack of knowledge on exactly how a plane is able to stay in the sky. But much like a submarine underwater or a car on the road, planes are designed to be in the air. Captain Allright explains: “a lift is produced by the wing moving through the air, which is a perfectly normal part of physics.” An aircraft flying at 30,000ft can glide for 100 miles, even if all the engines fail.

Trust the pilots

It can be hard to understand how anyone enjoys flying when fear takes over, but pilots really do have a passion for their jobs and have gone through a rigorous selection process and a two-year training programme to get to where they are. “It is the most highly regulated profession in the world. Pilots are retested and retrained every six months over their entire career,” says Captain Allright.

Understand turbulence

It may be uncomfortable but it’s not necessarily dangerous. Captain Allright tells us: “all turbulence is caused by nature and is perfectly safe because the aircraft is built to withstand even the most severe turbulence. If you have your seat belt on, you are always perfectly safe.”

Control negative thoughts

It’s easy to catastrophise when you think about flying, whether it’s the wing snapping off or the engine failing. But whatever the negative thought, always visualise a happy ending where you get off the aircraft safely. This positive mentality will help reduce anxiety and keep you calm on the flight.

Concentrate on your breathing

It’s impossible to panic when you can control your breathing. If you feel yourself getting anxious, even before you take off, inhale for four seconds and exhale for four seconds. Combine this with muscle contraction – clenching your buttocks while exhaling is most effective – so it overpowers the nervous signals running up and down your spinal cord, helping you to remain calm. This may sound odd, but it really works.

Try distraction exercises

Other techniques to try include distracting your brain from your fear. Wearing a rubber band around your wrist and pinging it when scared, snaps you back to reality and can serve as a reminder to stop overthinking. Alternatively, try firmly pressing the skin between your thumb and index finger. This pressure point is linked to anxiety and can help you remain calm.

Talk to the cabin crew

The cabin crew are there to keep you safe but also calm. Let them know you’re a nervous flyer when you board the plane and don’t be afraid to ask questions if you’re worried about anything that’s happening. It’s also important to remember that despite any noises or bumps, there is nothing wrong unless you are told otherwise.

Learn how to deal with claustrophobia

Everyone to some extent gets claustrophobic, but it’s how you deal with it that can make the difference when it comes to being comfortable on a flight. Use distraction and breathing techniques to calm nerves, walk around the plane to stretch your legs, and always plan how you will pass the journey. Break down each hour of a flight and decide how to occupy yourself – never board a plane with nothing to do.

Start with small, realistic goals

Don’t try to conquer your fear of flying by booking a return trip to Australia. Experiment with short haul flights and go through the journey in your head before you arrive at the airport, imagining a safe take off and landing. Fears and phobias are hard to conquer, but persistence and perseverance are what will eventually help you overcome them.

Take a 'Flying with Confidence' course

Don’t feel embarrassed about seeking expert help. Going on a course will give you invaluable advice that is tailored to exactly why your fear exists. Being surrounded by professionals who love to fly as well as people who are experiencing the same thoughts and feelings as you, is really reassuring. The one-day British Airways "Flying with Confidence" course runs throughout the year at various locations across the UK. Prices start from £235.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 319 ========

HOW TO GET A NEW UK PASSPORT

With sun-filled days imminent (right? RIGHT?), you should probably have sorted your holiday plans by now – but if you’ve left it until the last minute, here’s what you need to do to ensure that you don’t miss out on that well-earned break.

How much will a new passport cost?

A standard 34-page adult passport costs £75.50, a jumbo 50-page adult passport costs £85.50, a child’s passport costs £49 and for those born before 2 September 1929 can obtain passports for free. These fees are for online applications only – expect to pay approximately £10 more if you choose to complete a paper application.

Renewing or replacing an adult passport

If you’re in the UK you can renew or replace your passport and change the details on your passport. This should take approximately three weeks, but may take longer if your application hasn’t been completed correctly.

You can track your passport application immediately if you apply online, or after three weeks if you apply by post.

Your new passport will be sent to you by courier or Royal Mail. They’ll either post it through your letterbox, hand it to you if you’re at home, or leave a card or post a letter saying how you can get it (it won’t state the package is your passport).

How to renew or replace a passport urgently

Many countries now require visitors to have at least six months validity on their passport before entering the country. These include popular destinations such as Singapore, Mexico, Canada, China, Thailand and Brazil. Before booking your holiday, it’s always worth checking with your destination country’s consulate or the UK’s Foreign Office advice to double-check any entry requirements, as these can change.

If you’ve booked your flights and made the horrifying discovery that you don’t have enough time remaining on your passport, fear not. You’re not alone, and there are a number of options available to you.

Firstly, you’ll need to book a passport office appointment, attend in person and pay online; appointments can be booked up to three weeks in advance. However, bear in mind there are some situations where you can’t get a same day passport renewal, such as if your passport is deemed too damaged.

Fast-track options include:

Paper premium

With this service, you usually get your new passport four hours after your appointment. You can use this service to renew an adult passport or change the name on your passport (providing you can produce the relevant documentation, such as a marriage certificate). This option costs £177.

Online premium

This option enables you to get your new passport at your appointment. Appointments last up to 30 minutes and you can use this service to renew an adult passport. Bear in mind that the earliest you can get an appointment is two days from when you apply. This option costs £177.

One week fast track

This service delivers a new passport to your home within one week of your appointment, which means someone might need to be home to sign for it. This option costs £142 for a standard adult passport or £122 for a child’s passport. You can use this option to:

Renew an adult or child passport

Change your name on your passport

Make changes to your personal details, such as your gender

Replace a lost, stolen or damaged passport

Apply for a first child passport

If you’ve already applied for a passport, you may be able to upgrade an existing passport application in exceptional circumstances. Call the passport advice line on 0300 222 0000 for more information.

Where are the passport offices based?

There are passport customer service centres in Belfast, Durham, Glasgow, Liverpool, London, Newport and Peterborough.

How to get your first UK passport

If you’ve never left the UK’s green and pleasant lands until now, how exciting! You must have British nationality to be eligible for a UK passport, which will be valid for 10 years. Getting your first passport should take about six weeks, according to government guidance, but it can take longer. The first rule of obtaining, renewing or replacing your passport: leave sufficient time.

There are three ways to apply for your first passport. Whichever route you take, you’ll be asked some personal details such as:

Name, date and place of birth, your address and contact details

Details of any existing passports you hold

Details to confirm your British nationality, such as details about your parents or grandparents, or information from your naturalisation or registration certificate

Online applicants will need a debit or credit card to pay the £75.50 fee and the facilities to print the declaration form, which will require signing and posting.

As with passport renewals and replacements, you’ll be charged £85 if you want to make a paper application, with forms available from your local post office.

Finally, you can contact the passport advice line to get a form posted to you.

Photos and documents required

You must include two identical photographs with your passport application. There are stringent rules to comply with when identifying suitable passport photos, details of which you can find here.

You must also include supporting documentation, such as birth certificates, details of which you can find here.

Countersigned applications

There are some circumstances where your application form and photos require a countersignature – the signature of someone else who can prove your identity. You must get these signed if you’re applying for the following:

First adult passport

First child passport

Replacement for a lost, stolen or damaged passport

Renewal of a passport for a child aged 11 or under

Renewal of a passport if your appearance has changed and you can’t be recognised from your existing passport

Your countersignatory must:

Have known the person applying for at least two years

Be able to identify the person applying, for example, a friend, neighbour or colleague, not just someone who knows them professionally

Be “a person of good standing in their community” or work in (or be retired from) a recognised profession

Your countersignatory must not:

Be related by birth or marriage

Be in a relationship with, or live at the same address as, the person applying

By signing your form, your countersignatory is confirming that the details are correct, you’re who you claim to be and that the information you’ve provided on the form is correct.

On the back of one of your passport photos, your countersignatory should write:

“I certify that this is a true likeness of [title and full name of adult or child who is applying for the passport]”.

They must then sign and date underneath this statement. The passport applicant does not have to sign or date the photos.

It’s possible that HM Passport Office may contact your countersignatory for more information and that your application may be delayed if they’re unavailable, for example if they’re on holiday.

Passport check and send service

Some post offices can check your passport application to ensure that all the correct sections have been completed, that you have all the supporting documents and that you have paid the correct fee – this is called ‘check and send’. You can only use this if you have completed a paper application. Your application will then be sent to HM Passport Office special delivery and is usually faster than posting your own application. There is a £9.75 fee for this service, in addition to the cost of your passport.

For all other information about obtaining a passport, including cancelling a lost or stolen passport or applying for a child’s passport, head to the government’s webpage.

Bon voyage!

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 320 ========

HOW LONG BEFORE MY FLIGHT DO I NEED TO ARRIVE AT THE AIRPORT?

The time you need to arrive at an airport depends on where you’re flying from and to and who you’re flying with.

Most airports tend to have their own guidelines on when to turn up based on the size of the airport and the time it’s expected to take to check-in, pass through security and find your way to the gate.

London Heathrow

London Heathrow recommends arriving three hours prior to departure for long-haul and El Al flights, and two hours prior to departure for UK and European flights.

London Gatwick

London Gatwick advises long-haul passengers and those on European flights to arrive around three hours prior to departure. Those flying within the UK or Ireland are advised to arrive two hours prior to departure.

London Stansted

London Stansted suggests checking in a minimum of two hours before the scheduled departure time of your flight.

Manchester Airport

Due to road works around the airport and the on-going Manchester Airport Transformation Project, Manchester Airport is currently advising passengers to leave additional time for their journey to the airport, in order to have checked in and be ready to go through security at least two hours prior to departure.

London Luton

Luton Airport states that check-in desks and bag drop facilities will open two hours prior to flight time and that the airline will close the boarding gate approximately 40 minutes before the scheduled departure time.

Edinburgh Airport

Edinburgh Airport recommends that passengers check-in a minimum of one hour prior to scheduled departure time for UK and Ireland (including Channel Islands) flights and two hours before scheduled departure time for international flights. Those travelling on EI AI flights are required to check-in three and a half hours prior to departure.

Smaller airports with fewer flyers and quicker check-in and security processes may require less time, however.

London City Airport, for example, has just one terminal and is frequently used for business trips where passengers want to be in and out of the airport as quickly as possible. Its website boasts that passengers can be from front door to gate in 30 minutes and encourages travellers to save time by checking in online prior to their arrival or to use one of the self-service machines to check-in.

Checking in online is something offered by almost all airlines; if you know you’re going to be tight on time, it’s also worth paying a little extra for priority boarding.

All airports advise passengers to check their airline tickets or documents for instructions regarding check-in times and to contact their airline directly if they are unsure.

Arrange your travel to the airport ahead of time and check closer to departure for any strikes or road works that may affect your journey.

While waiting around in an airport terminal can be tiresome, it’s worth sticking it out rather than running the risk of missing your flight. If you’re late, your flight can – and will – take to the air whether you’re on board or not.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 321 ========

THE ITEMS YOU CAN AND CAN’T TAKE ON A PLANE

As Australia directs all international air passengers (and some domestic travellers) to declare powder items at security, we take a look at what you can and can't take on an aeroplane according to the UK government.

Some items aren’t allowed in your hand luggage and some aren’t allowed anywhere on the aircraft. If you’re unsure, don’t risk your property being dumped unceremoniously at security and check with the airline or airport prior to departure.

Ashes

Ashes can be carried in either your hand or hold luggage, but must be sealed in an outer box or case and accompanied by the relevant documentation, such as a Certificate of Death issued by an authority from the country of departure. Ashes will need to be screened along with any other items, however. It’s a good idea to inform an airport official that you are carrying ashes before screening begins.

Drones

These can be carried in your hand luggage providing they meet the airline's size and weight restrictions. You will also need to notify the airline that you are carrying the batteries.

Liquids

Restrictions on the liquids you can transport are nothing new, so aim to pack as many items into your hold luggage as possible. If you’re only travelling with hand luggage, remember that you can only take containers holding no more than 100ml which must fit in a single, transparent resealable plastic bag, which holds no more than a litre and measures approximately 20cm x 20cm.

Make sure you’re clear on exactly what constitutes a liquid; honey, mascara, hairspray and foam all fall into this category.

Medical equipment and medication

Essential medicines are allowed in your hand luggage. If the medicine is a liquid and the amount of liquid is more than 100ml, carry either a prescription with your name on it or a letter from a medical professional confirming your need for it.

If you need to carry a large amount of dietary liquids or medication in your hand baggage, it is advisable to contact the airport in advance to inform them of when you are travelling.

Permission from the airline is required to take certain medical equipment on board, such as insulin pumps or oxygen. While some airlines may not allow you to take your own oxygen bottles on board, they can provide this on request, but may charge a fee for this.

If you are likely to exceed your hand luggage allowance by carrying medication or medical equipment, you should let your airline know in advance. You may need to provide a doctor's letter to support this.

If you’re worried about encountering problems at the airport when travelling with medication or medical equipment, it’s a good idea to carry a note from a medical professional explaining your need for the item and/or contact the airline well ahead of departure.

Food and powders

You can carry cakes, fruit, vegetables, sandwiches and all solid foods in your hand luggage. Foods in sauces or with a high liquid content, such as soup, cannot come through security.

Food items and powders in your hand luggage can obstruct images on x-ray machines and your bags may need to be checked again manually by security. You can put these items in your hold luggage to minimise delays.

You are allowed to carry empty water bottles through security in your hand luggage, so take the environmentally conscious route and invest in a reusable bottle.

Baby food and baby milk

When travelling with a baby you’re allowed to take enough baby food, baby milk and sterilised water for the journey. In some cases, this will be over 100ml.

You can carry breast milk in hand luggage even if you’re not travelling with a baby. You cannot carry frozen breast milk in your hand luggage.

Individual containers of breast milk must hold no more than two litres. Each container will need to be screened at the security point and airport staff might need to open the containers to screen the liquids.

Electrical items

The electronic devices you’re allowed to take on a flight depend on the country and airport you’re travelling to and from, so it’s a good idea to check with your airline before travelling.

Hairdryers, straighteners, travel irons and electric shavers can be carried in your hand or hold luggage.

As a rule, you should put all phones, laptops, tablets and e-readers in your checked baggage if they’re larger that the following measurements:16cm in length, 9.3cm in width, 1.5cm in depth (thickness).

You must also check the size of keyboards, power supplies and transformers, and external hard drives.

You cannot take any of these accessories or devices in your hand luggage if they’re larger than these measurements, even if you bought them at the airport (for example, at a duty free shop).

You cannot take any spare batteries or portable power sources in your hand or hold luggage if they’re larger than these measurements and could be used with a phone, laptop, tablet or e-reader.

You can still take other accessories, such as headphones, in your hand luggage, and can usually take camera equipment in your hand and hold luggage, although restrictions might apply to specialist equipment.

Musical instruments

Contact your airline before you book if you want to travel with a large musical instrument. You may need to make special arrangements, such as buying an extra seat.

Musical instruments will be screened separately.

Mobility aids

Pushchairs, walking aids and wheelchairs are usually allowed in the cabin, but will need to be security screened first.

For battery-powered wheelchairs or mobility aids, check with your airline first.

Ammunition and dangerous goods

Unsurprisingly, you cannot take any guns, sharp knives, certain scissors or firearms (including air rifles and starting pistols) as hand luggage. You may be able to take them as hold luggage - check with your airline before you travel.

Party poppers, flares, bleach smoke cartridges, fireworks or model guns cannot be taken on the aircraft at any point.

Sharp and prohibited items

Razor blades, toy or replica guns (including water pistols), tools, darts, sports bats, clubs or cues, catapults or slingshots or items that could be used as a potential weapon are all forbidden in hand luggage.

Smoking materials

Cigarettes and other tobacco products are all allowed in hand baggage.

You can only carry one lighter on board. Lighters and e-cigarettes must be included within the liquid allowance and kept inside a re-sealable plastic bag (like the ones used for liquids), which you must keep on you throughout the flight. You cannot put it in your hold luggage or put it in your hand luggage after screening.

E-cigarettes are completely banned from hold luggage.

You may take a single butane lighter or a box of safety matches on board the aircraft but only if carried on your person. Zippo lighters are also allowed as your one lighter.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 322 ========

BAGGAGE ALLOWANCE GUIDE: LUGGAGE LIMITS FOR RYANAIR, BRITISH AIRWAYS, EASYJET AND OTHER AIRLINES

When planning your holiday, it’s vital to be clear about the baggage allowance you’re entitled to. This ensures you can pack efficiently and avoid hefty charges at check-in when you arrive at the airport.

We researched 10 of the most popular airlines in the UK to find out exactly what you’re entitled to before you lift off.

Ryanair

From 1 November 2018 Ryanair passengers will only be allowed to bring one mid-size bag – 40cm x 20cm x 25cm – onboard unless they choose to pay extra, cutting the free luggage allowance by almost two-thirds. Those who pay £6 for priority boarding will be entitled to bring an additional large bag (up to 10kg) into the cabin; passengers also have the option of paying £8 to check-in a 10kg bag that will travel in the hold.

There is no cabin bag allowance for infants (aged eight days to 23 months) travelling on adults’ laps. A baby bag up to 5kg may be carried by the accompanying adult in addition to their own cabin bag allowance.

Duty free bags are permitted in the cabin along with your cabin baggage.

Each passenger can purchase up to three checked bags of 20kg for the hold. The pooling or sharing of purchased checked baggage allowances is permitted with others included on the same flight reservation when checking in together.

EasyJet

EasyJet passengers can take one bag on board as hand luggage. There’s no weight limit, but it must not exceed 56cm by 45cm by 25cm (including handles and wheels).

Each customer, including children and infants, can buy up to three hold bags. A standard hold bag is 23kg. No single item can weigh more than 32kg and the maximum total size (length + width + height) must be under 275cm.

British Airways

The free hand baggage allowance that British Airways offers varies depending on your destination.

Broadly speaking, passengers are allowed one handbag or laptop bag not exceeding 40cm by 30cm by 15cm in size and 23kg in weight, plus one additional cabin bag not exceeding 56cm by 45cm by 25cm in size and 23kg in weight. Infants under two-years-old are allowed one cabin bag for items required during the flight not exceeding 56cm by 45cm by 25cm in size and 23kg in weight.

Similar to cabin bags, the amount of hold luggage each passenger is entitled to varies depending on your destination and ticket type. A checked bag cannot exceed 90cm by 75cm by 43cm in size, including handles, pockets and wheels. The weight limit applies to each bag and it’s not possible to split the total weight across multiple bags. Check what you’re entitled to in the “Manage My Booking” section of BA’s website.

Jet2

On Jet2 flights passengers can take one piece of hand baggage on board at a maximum weight of 10kg and not exceeding 56cm by 45cm by 25cm in size. Customers are also entitled to purchase up to three 22kg checked bags per person.

Emirates

The baggage allowance available on Emirates flights varies depending on the class of travel, fare type and membership tier (if applicable).

Economy Class passengers are permitted one piece of carry-on baggage not exceeding 55cm by 38cm by 20cm in size and 7kg in weight.

Economy Class customers can check in up to 35kg depending on the fare type, while Business Class passengers are entitled to a maximum of 40kg and first class passengers up to 50kg. Passengers in all three classes can check in up to 10 pieces of baggage as long as it stays within the checked weight limit for their cabin class.

Virgin Atlantic

Hand luggage is included as part of all Virgin Atlantic tickets. Depending on your fare type, you may be entitled to take more than just one bag. Whichever class you’re in, the size of your bag must not exceed 23cm by 36cm by 56cm.

Hold luggage allowance varies depending on what kind of ticket you hold. Economy Classic and Economy Delight tickets include one checked bag not exceeding 90cm by 75cm by 43cm in size and up to 23kg in weight. Premium and Upper Class passengers are entitled to more.

Flybe

Flybe passengers are entitled to one standard cabin bag not exceeding 55cm by 35cm by 20cm in size, including wheels and handles. You can also take a smaller under-seat bag, but both items must weigh no more than 10kg combined. Passengers with Get More or All In tickets may be eligible to check in hold luggage free of charge. Standard passengers are entitled to purchase one piece of hold baggage with fees based on weight, with prices ranging from £18.50 for 15kg to £49 for 40kg, split over two bags.

Thomas Cook Airlines

Thomas Cook Airlines passengers are entitled to one piece of hand luggage not exceeding 55cm by 40cm by 20cm in size and 6kg in weight. The standard hold baggage allowance is 15kg on short-haul flights, 20kg on long-haul flights and 23kg to the US.

Qatar Airways

Economy Class customers flying with Qatar are allowed to carry one piece of cabin baggage not exceeding 7kg. Checked baggage varies depending on destination and fare type, but must not weigh more than 32kg.

Qantas

Economy passengers flying with Qantas are entitled to a single cabin bag weighing no more than 7kg per piece, although your entitlement depends upon your ticket type. Economy passengers on international flights (excluding North and South America) are entitled to 30kg of hold luggage, not exceeding 158cm in size.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 323 ========

THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO BOOKING A HOLIDAY AS A DISABLED PERSON

Before my brush with a spinal cord injury earlier this year, the worst travel mistake I’d ever made was to think Girona airport was anywhere near Barcelona. With my newly acquired mobility issues, travel for me has become something that intimidates me, but something I still desperately want to do (as does my six-year-old son, George).

The thing is, although lots of tour operators and hotels are keen to talk about how accessible they are, being truly open to those with disabilities is about so much more than having a few ground-floor rooms and level-access showers. The facilities that I want – and need – in order to have a fun-filled, stress-free holiday are not going to be the same for every one of the nearly 14 million disabled people in the UK.

Here are some of the most useful things I’ve learnt about travelling with a disability.

Do your research

Draw up a hit-list of people you want to talk to before you book anything – you could start with an organisation that understands your condition, such as the spinal injuries association. You could also join a relevant Facebook group and ask fellow members for their successful holiday stories – and also the ones that didn’t go so well.

The details you need will be unique to you, but there will be common ground and potential pitfalls you haven’t thought of. This will help you prepare a list of questions to ask your airline, tour operator and hotel – before you book anything.

All airports within the EU are legally obliged to offer assistance to disabled travellers, as long as you let them know when you book, but what this help consists of really seems to vary. The practicalities of getting your wheelchair or any other equipment that you need on a flight, such as oxygen, also seem to vary hugely, so phone the airline before you book anything to ensure everything will go smoothly before you part with any cash.

Question everything

Don’t be afraid to question everything, no matter how small a detail it might seem. It could make all the difference to your trip. To give you a flavour of what you might need to know, some of the questions I have asked include:

What assistance will I get at the airport and how will I get on the plane?

Does the hotel have any rooms that have showers with seats in them?

Are there handrails on all your stairs?

How is the pool accessed?

How low is the seating in the lounge area?

Can I book private transfers and what will the cost be?

Consider a staycation

For the newly disabled, like me, the thought of going to another country and the challenges of long-haul travel may be too far out of the comfort zone, so you might be better starting with a short break in the UK. The same rules apply when it comes to research – think about all the things you have at home that make living an independent life possible, and find a hotel or resort that can offer a similar set-up.

If you just want a simple, self-catering trip to somewhere gorgeous, then you could start by searching on Airbnb. It acquired disabled travel company Accomable last year and you can now search, with an admirable amount of detail, for disabled-friendly accommodation with filters such as roll-in shower and pool with hoist. An added bonus is that you can speak directly to the property owner with any further queries you have.

Is it better to go with a specialist tour operator?

Anything with the word “specialist” attached usually sets off my “these people are going to fleece you” klaxon, but it really can be of huge benefit to book your holiday with someone who knows where you’re coming from. It seems like those who really get disabled travel are those who have experienced it themselves, and some of the most appealing holiday recommendations I have been given are run by those who are disabled themselves or have disabled family members. One notable example is the Stagecoach Trails Guest Ranch in Yucca, Arizona, which was created by the parents of a wheelchair user and offers “barrier-free” riding holidays. With adult prices starting at £1,359pp (two sharing), full board, it’s not a budget option but isn’t extortionate either.

Ask the experts

Don’t be afraid to contact somewhere you like the look of and ask them all your questions – if they can’t be bothered to answer, then they probably aren’t the right type of accommodation for you anyway.

Any place worth visiting will understand that you want a beautiful hotel room and not one that will give you flashbacks to being in hospital. They will understand that you want to be able to get in and out of the pool with the rest of your family. And they will understand that you are far more than just a wheelchair or a pair of wobbly legs.

Disabled travel don’ts

Don’t book a holiday according to your “best day”. One thing I’ve learnt this year is that being disabled is not a fixed thing. Some days I can walk six metres, other days I struggle.

Don’t take anyone’s word for it that something is “accessible” – this means different things to different people and only you know what you need. One example is a shower with no step – great that it’s level access, but if I can only stand up for 60 seconds, not much use.

Don’t go too big too soon – start with a short break not too far away from home before you book that trip-of-a-lifetime to New Zealand.

Don’t put up with shoddy service – if the disabled facilities at a hotel are lacking, then tell the management. There are almost 14 million of us in the UK alone; our opinions matter.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 324 ========

CHEAP FLIGHTS: WHAT ARE ‘MISTAKE FARES’ AND HOW CAN YOU BAG CRAZY DISCOUNTS?

When does paying $300 (£217) feel like getting something for free? The answer is when it’s the price of a round-trip ticket from the United States to Auckland on Air New Zealand, a flight which normally costs at least $800 per person for the long flight across the Pacific Ocean. The deal was extremely limited and only available for a few hours last week, but that didn’t stop travellers from booking enough tickets to cause Air New Zealand alarm. The $300 airfare wasn’t a sanctioned sale; it was an anomaly known to bargain hunters and the frequent flyer community as a “mistake fare”.

Although Air New Zealand ended up cancelling and refunding the tickets, mistake fares over the last few years, from $225 round-trips to New Zealand to $66 one-ways from the Maldives, have frequently been honoured by airlines. The lucky flyers who enjoyed unbelievably affordable travel didn’t deploy any shifty tricks to get them, either. Knowing a few basics is all it takes to improve your chances of becoming one of the lucky ones next time.

What is a mistake fare?

As Matthew Ma, co-founder of airfare deal website The Flight Deal explains on his site, “A mistake fare is essentially a pricing mistake – a low fare accidentally entered into booking systems due to a computer problem or human error.”

Another term for a mistake fare is a “fat finger fare”, as occasionally they literally come about because someone at an airline or travel website tapped the wrong button or keyboard key. Ma continues: “In some cases, the airline left too many zeros off the dollar price ($500 instead of $5,000); in other cases, there is a currency conversion mistake.”

There’s no exact science to figuring out whether or not an airline will honour a mistake fare. The decision is up to the individual airline, and typically revolves around how generous they’re feeling or how much value they believe honouring the fare will generate for them, in either good press or destination exposure and tourist spend.

In the event of a mistake fare, the best-case scenario is that the airline honours the impossibly low ticket price and the lucky travellers have a nice trip. The worst-case scenario, which played out last week with Air New Zealand’s round-trip flights from the United States to Auckland, is that the airline simply cancels and refunds all tickets. No cheap trip for you!

How to get a mistake fare

Bookmarking a few strategic websites and following the social media accounts of said sites will increase your chances of seeing the mistake fare alerts in time to act.

SecretFlying (secretflying.com) and Travel Pirates (travelpirates.com), the latter with multiple language websites geared towards Europe-based travellers, churn out budget airfare deals all day, every day.

Jack’s Flight Club (jacksflightclub.co.uk) is also a great tool for grabbing bargains – sign up to the alerts to be at the front of the queue for flight deals.

US-based flyers have the additional excellent resource of The Flight Deal (theflightdeal.com) and Fare Deal Alert (faredealalert.com), websites that utilise an algorithm to uncover more than just mistake fares, but unbelievably low-priced airline tickets all around, with the caveat that the travel originates from a US airport.

Just as quickly as a mistake fare pops up, it can be discovered and corrected by the airline. Speed is your friend, and the general advice given on airfare deals websites is to “book first, plan later”.

Booking tips

Be flexible

Flexibility is requirement number one for successfully booking and flying a mistake fare. It’s not uncommon for a mistake fare to involve a one-way flight beginning in Vietnam, or require payment in a foreign currency, or include uncomfortably lengthy layovers in airports very far from both home and your destination. Mistake fares can be downright weird, and what you save in money you may make up for with stress.

Read the blogs

For some mistake fares, the recommendation is to book directly with the airline’s website. For others, it may be better to book with an online travel agency like Expedia or Travelocity. Do a Google search for the latest blog posts, and sift Twitter for the latest tweets on the topic of the individual mistake fare in which you’re interested, to see what those who’ve successfully booked are saying.

Consider a stopover

See if the airline allows free stopovers at their hub, and use this perk to create a two-for-one itinerary. For example, Emirates’ policy of allowing free multi-day stopovers in Dubai between international flights is something Toronto-based frequent flyer Melissa Kaita recalled when she grabbed a one-way flight with the airline from the Maldives to the United States for the mistake fare of $66 per person.

“I doubt I would have gone to Dubai without the mistake fare,” Kaita tells The Independent. “I turned the layover into a week in Dubai with my husband, and loved it.”

Be mindful of your credit card

There is no predicting a mistake fare, and that goes as much for details like currency for payment as much as for departure and destination cities. Some fares may only be available if you pay in Norwegian krone, or Indonesian rupiah. For this reason, use a credit card with no foreign transaction fees, or plan on adding at least 4 per cent to your payment.

What to do next

Wait. It may be a challenge to sit on your hands and not make additional travel arrangements, like booking hotels and activities, but a mistake fare is a gamble. The airline may cancel it right away, or it may take a week. Be patient.

What may happen

Airline cancels it and refunds the fare, as in the Air New Zealand case.

Airline cancels it but offers conciliatory a deal, such as a reduced price round-trip.

Airline cancels it, then changes its mind and honours the deal: the recent Emirates mistake, which Melissa Kaita travelled on, was originally cancelled. The airline then changed its mind, and offered to reinstate the tickets.

Airline honours it.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 325 ========

FORGET THE STAYCATION – WHY A ‘DAYCATION’ IS THE ULTIMATE WAY TO RELAX

“Would you like a wakeup call, madam?” the receptionist asks as we check in to Athenaeum, a hip Mayfair five-star on the edge of Green Park.

I suppress a smile and shake my head.

“No thanks – we’re just here for the day.”

The receptionist looks confused for a moment – as well they might – before expertly regaining composure.

“Of course. Let me show you to your room.”

We’re trying out the very latest trend to hit the hotel scene, so it’s no wonder not everyone’s up to speed yet.

The “daycation”, as well as being a near-perfect portmanteau, describes the practice of booking a hotel room just for the day. The idea, launched by DayBreakHotels earlier this year, makes staying at a luxury hotel a much more affordable prospect. By booking a room from 10am-6pm and forgoing an overnight stay, guests pay up to around 50 per cent less while still getting the full A-lister experience, and hotels can make money from rooms they’ve been unable to sell that would otherwise be empty.

It’s an interesting concept, but it feels a little odd to be checking in to a room that we won’t be sleeping in. What will we do all day?

Most people have immediately jumped to one inevitable conclusion.

“Isn’t it just for people having affairs?”, “It’s a love hotel!” and “So… a little afternoon delight?!” are just some of the responses I’ve heard over the past week.

As we step through the door into one of Athenaeum’s high-spec residences, complete with giant blue-grey sofa, high ceilings, mini kitchen and sleek, all-marble bathroom – in addition to the, admittedly massive, bed – I can’t help but think it would be a bit of a waste to just use it for a discreet midday bonk. This is a suite that deserves to be savoured.

My partner and I are both feeling a little delicate after quaffing too much wine at a dinner party the night before, so the first step is to kick off our shoes, grab a coffee from the Nespresso machine and curl up on that sofa. It’s so big we can both lie full out without touching – bliss.

There’s something about being somewhere that’s not your own home – perhaps the lack of washing up on the counter, unopened mail on the table and laundry hanging over every possible surface – that is outrageously relaxing.

I idly fill in a sudoku puzzle while Sunday morning cooking shows play in the background; which, as it turns out, is the ideal hangover cure.

Our contented chill-out makes time pass swiftly, and before we know it lunchtime has rolled around. A stroll downstairs takes us to the hotel restaurant, Galvin, where a small but carefully curated menu of dishes awaits.

I’m used to lunch being a pretty swift affair, even in a restaurant – an hour is about right, 90 minutes at a push, although even that feels fairly decadent. With nowhere to be and waited on by attentive staff who have zero incentive to move us along, however, we manage to spend nearly two and a half hours in our comfortable, velvet-clad booth, lingering over endive, walnut and Roquefort salad, the world’s tastiest tuna burger and a gloriously chewy passionfruit pavlova. Accompanied by a carafe of Spanish white, it makes for just about the most pleasant few hours imaginable.

Sleepily sated, we pour ourselves out of the restaurant and return to our room for a brief digestion break before the next item on the agenda – the spa.

Athenaeum has a small but perfectly formed wellness area, including a gym. (We’d optimistically brought workout gear but that remains stubbornly buried at the bottom of our bags.) I don’t feel like it’s possible to get any more relaxed, but alternating between the two hot tubs, sauna, steam room and relaxation space, I realise that was pure baloney. An hour into this delightful process I am jelly-limbed and fluffy-headed – all is right with the world.

Somehow time has progressed yet again; doing nothing seems to have a hastening effect on the clock. At 5pm, there’s just enough of it left to get properly squeaky clean under the room’s rainfall shower, using every complimentary ESPA product available, before one last stint of companionable reading sprawled on the bed.

Moving at a languorous pace, we gather up our things, faces swathed in drowsy smiles.

“Checking out? Already?” The woman at the desk is just as confused as this morning’s receptionist.

“Yes, that’s right. It was just a daycation.”

I sigh contentedly. We may be spending the night in semi-squalor rather than five-star opulence, but after eight hours of unfettered relaxation, I feel pretty confident we’ll sleep well tonight.

Travel essentials

DayBreakHotels offers four-star hotels with spas from £59 per day.

A day in a suite at Athenaeum costs £360 (saving up to 50 per cent compared to £720 for an overnight stay). Guests can pay for spa access for £25 per hour.

====== 326 ========

WHY DEAL SHOULD BE YOUR NEXT STAYCATION

You’ve heard of Margate. Everybody’s heard of Margate.

But what about its quieter, quainter neighbour, Deal? Just a few miles along the spectacular Kentish coastline, this little seaside town is giving Margs a run for its money as the new staycation for London’s movers and shakers.

Just like Margate, the town has changed in recent years as visitors flock to its antiques shops, independent boutiques and a new breed of fancy restaurants. What used to be down-at-heel now feels rather swish and there’s plenty to do on a weekend break. Plus, it’s only 80 minutes by train from St Pancras.

For somewhere to stay, book yourself into The Rose, a newly refurbished pub/boutique hotel on the high street. Owners Alex Bagner and Christopher Hicks have overhauled this former dodgy boozer into a chic, highly Instagrammable bolthole. The bedrooms are decorated in bright hues and have an eclectic mix of Victorian and mid-century furniture, while vintage bathroom suites with organic toiletries are perfect for a relaxing getaway.

Downstairs, the restaurant is winning plaudits for its food. The veggie-friendly menu majors on local ingredients and nice touches are made in-house: a standout dish was hake served win creamy dhal, as well as smoked duck with chicory. Cocktails, including some made with locally-foraged ingredients, are chalked up on a board behind the bar daily.

To start the day you can choose from a simple menu featuring dishes such as a Scandi breakfast plate with smoked salmon and pickles, roasted mushrooms on toast, and a hearty bacon bap, all washed down with Climpson & Sons coffee. Breakfast is included in the room rate but is also available a la carte to non-guests.

Saturday mornings in Deal are a lively affair: the weekly farmers’ market has so far managed to avoid total gentrification and is a pleasing mix of bric-à-brac and stalls selling handmade pasta. Spend some time browsing in Mileage for antique homewares, or head to Smuggler’s Records, an independent record label that became a shop, for vinyls.

Elsewhere, Dunlin & Diver focuses on clothing, gifts and homeware made by local artisans, while Hoxton Store and Will & Yates stock beautiful art and interiors pieces.

Deal also has a number of independent art galleries including Don’t Walk Walk, which has a more punk aesthetic. And despite the town having no cinema, the new Kent Museum of the Moving Image is also worth a visit, if only to ogle the original poster art.

There is no shortage of places to grab the makings of a picnic for lunch: French deli No Name Shop or Filberts Foods sell all manner of delicious local products to fuel you for an afternoon’s walk along the seafront. The cheese fridge at Filberts is the stuff of dreams.

Deal’s pier, an impressively brash concrete structure, is set to get a new occupier in 2019 in the shape of a revamped cafe. For now it remains a good spot to begin a stroll along the coast. If you head south, past Deal Castle, you’ll come to Hut 55, a glorified shack on the footpath serving delicious cakes, pastries, enormous scotch eggs and coffee. It shares its space with Mike’s Bikes – the man himself will hire you two wheels for the afternoon if you fancy seeing the area at a faster pace.

Like many seaside resorts, Deal is packed on a sunny day, but during the winter it has to fight to attract visitors. Local restaurant Frog and Scot has just started offering a £10 ‘dish of the day’ deal – glass of wine or beer included – to attract regulars through its doors. This bustling establishment is run by Benoit Dezecot and his partner Sarah Ross – the eponymous Frog and Scot. They opened two years ago and business is brisk, with tables squeezed into the cosy bistro and a constant flurry of new customers. Chef David Gadd, who spent six years at Michelin-starred Whitstable eatery The Sportsman, heads up the kitchen. The food is unpretentious but delicious: gorgeous plump scallops with boudin noir, and cod with a silky crab bisque both nodding to Deal’s maritime location.

Dezecot and Ross also own Le Pinardier, a gorgeous wine bar a few doors down which often has live music at the weekend.

It would be easy to dismiss Deal as a destination beloved of the locally scorned ‘down from London’ types. But there are plenty of reasons to love this place, not least a certain rakish charm stemming from its days as a smuggling hub, and later a bohemian enclave. Come in the winter, when it’s empty and cheap...but always welcoming.

Travel essentials

Rooms at The Rose from £100, B&B.

Trains from St Pancras take around 80 minutes to Deal.

====== 327 ========

HALLOWEEN 2018: HOW TO TERRIFY PEOPLE, FROM THE TEAM BEHIND ALTON TOWERS SCAREFEST

Whatever it is that makes a shiver run down your spine, chances are the Scarefest team at Alton Towers have already thought of it – and used it to inspire a scenario guaranteed to make you jump.

The UK’s biggest Halloween event, which sees the theme park transform into a spooky incarnation until 2 November, takes five months of preparation, with more than 100 people recruited, cast and trained to be specialist “scare actors” just for the event. And they aren’t taking any chances when it comes to ensuring visitors are sufficiently terrified.

“Throughout Scarefest we aim to hit different notes with different attractions,” Kieran Kimberley, creative manager and lead creator of Project 42, the park’s newest scare maze, says. “We create environments that are out of the ordinary and places our guests wouldn’t normally go, allowing them to step into a world of fantasy.

“We’ve developed a wide variety of sets, from creepy medical facilities to dark abandoned mines. This plays on everyone’s intrinsic fears of the unknown and the dark.”

Darkness is just one of the common fears the mazes capitalise on; lighting and smoke effects are used to play tricks on visitors’ eyes, specifically created audio enhances the tension, “smell pods” create unwelcome odours and some floors even vibrate as a low frequency note is played through a base sub underneath to increase a sense of unease.

In Project 42, “brown noise” is played – it’s inaudible to the human ear but proven to heighten the feeling of claustrophobia in humans.

However, spooking members of the public isn’t getting any easier – exposure to horror via video games, films and TV shows means some people are increasingly desensitised to thrills and chills.

“Today, sometimes it isn’t enough to simply turn off the light; we have to use extra layers of terror to provide the scares,” says Chris Carter, head of entertainment at Alton Towers Resort and the brains behind Scarefest. “The team works tirelessly to work out ways to artificially generate these moments and they are regularly reassessed to ensure we have what it takes to create a scare that appeals to a mass audience of different ages, expectations, experiences and backgrounds.”

Most basic innate fears remain the same, says Carter – “the shadows that move in the dark, fear of the unknown and a fear of death” – and they prey on these to get a reaction.

“During our scare maze ‘Altonville Mine Tours’ our guests have to wear miners’ helmets. As part of the experience these purposely fail, plunging the guests into complete darkness. It takes just moments for panic to set in as they enter unexpected, unknown territory with the added fear of being in the dark.”

Kimberley says his top tactic is using a “punchline” scare: “A slow build-up to increase the feeling of tension, followed by a sudden sound or movement that makes you jump.

“The key is us being able to artificially generate an atmosphere that builds apprehension through the use of unusual props and unexpected special effects, as well as audio and lighting changes.”

The team also ups the ante by changing the physical environment – throwing in winding, narrow pathways with lots of twists and turns to disorientate people, long corridors and dark confined spaces.

“The jump can then be created by an effect that makes a loud noise, a lighting change or an unseen actor who is trained to specifically notice when you’re most vulnerable,” he says.

The scare actors themselves are key and can make or break the experience; they need to be able to read an audience in an instant and go for the jugular. It’s a quality that Simon Allen, chief recruiter and trainer, is adept at identifying in potential recruits.

“After years of experiencing and creating scare attractions I have developed a comprehensive method for finding the most terrifying actors.

“Potential ‘monsters’ are invited to open auditions where we put them through their paces, often pushing the boundaries of what they feel comfortable performing – but this isn’t because we’re cruel. It’s genuinely an important part of the process as every scare actor needs to be versatile.

“The audience isn’t static, it’s moving through a maze, so they only have a very short window of time to make an impression.”

After recruitment, the scare actors are given intensive training at Alton Towers before Scarefest begins, with “scare workshops” on skills including characterisation, animation, scare techniques, positioning and wellbeing. “The result being the most well-educated bunch of zombies, aliens and ghouls that you’ll ever come across!” according to Allen.

It’s tricky to maintain tension when the performers can’t physically harm participants, but Allen says it’s all about anticipation.

“Imagine a grotesque creature standing at the end of a dark and dismal corridor with the only option being to walk towards it. Now imagine that same creature grunting, twitching and slightly tilting its head in a playful yet curious manner that suggests it’s preparing to unleash an attack on you; feeling scared yet?”

It works, and is one of the reasons Scarefest’s mazes have built up a reputation as one of the UK’s most chilling Halloween experiences. But why is it we enjoy being frightened? Why do we crave that building pressure followed by something to make us jump?

It’s the human ‘fight or flight’ response, according to Carter – the feeling that causes guests’ palms to sweat, pupils to dilate, and ensures the body is pumped with dopamine and adrenaline.

“People like that feeling and it’s been around long before scare attractions became popular. But it’s also the escapism the scare attractions offer. It takes the guest away from the outside world and delves them into an immersive fantasy we have created, with the help of a backstory, special effects and the characters.

“They’re suddenly starring in their own movie in a world of complete, yet safe, uncertainty – and what could be cooler than that?”

Travel essentials

Scarefest is on at Alton Towers until 2 November. Adult day passes including access to three mazes from £50.

====== 328 ========

HOW TO SPEND A DAY IN ELENA FERRANTE'S NAPLES

When My Brilliant Friend hits TV screens, it’s not just main characters Elena (Lenu) Greco and Lila Cerullo that will be on display. The setting of Naples, one of the world’s most ancient cities, looms large. But the Italian coastal city is an entirely different place now to the difficult postwar incarnation that formed the backdrop to Elena Ferrante’s bestselling novel.

The complicated friendship between the two women is at the heart of pseudonymous author Elena Ferrante’s four-book epic, which has been adapted as a TV miniseries by an international production team. First published in 2011 in Italy, My Brilliant Friend quickly connected with readers around the world, who read straight through the “Neapolitan Quartet” with feverish devotion. Readers meet the protagonists in their primary school classroom and follow them until they’re in their sixties.

The stories are mostly set in Naples, beginning at a time when communists, fascists, the mafia and a devoted teacher with a strong feminist mindset are all forces that shape the girls’ lives. Naples is also a strong character, with many landmarks and neighbourhoods clearly identified, while others are only discernible to people who know the city well.

Here’s how to spend a day in Ferrante’s Naples.

The neighbourhood that most closely matches the district where young Lenu and Lila meet is Rione Luzzatti, behind the main train station in Naples. Originally conceived as affordable housing for railway workers in the 1920s, it developed in the 1950s, a period which is described in the book when Lila marries Stefano, a local tyrant.

Explore this working class neighbourhood, now with a growing Chinese community, from Naples’ Gianturco train station. Walk along the stradone (main road) of the novels, which is likely Via Taddeo da Sessa. The tunnel through which Lenu and Lila try to escape to the sea is an underpass at Via Emanuele Gianturco. A short walk from here is the Church of the Sacred Family (specifically named in the novels) at Via Bussola, 5.

Proof of the area’s changing fortunes is the nearby Centro Direzionale, where the ponds and old cannery once were. It’s now a cluster of glass office towers built in the 1980s, nicknamed Little Manhattan.

Waterfront Chiaia is the other district at the centre of the novels, specifically Piazza dei Martiri, where Lila opens her shoe salon. Then and now, this is an elegant neighbourhood for shopping, strolling and people-watching. Sit down outside at Gran Caffe La Caffettiera next to the carved lions for a caffé macchiato or Campari spritz. Or try the gelato at Fantasia Gelato, which Neapolitans will tell you is their favourite.

For shopping, wander away from the lion monument, arm in arm like Lila and Lenu, along Via Gaetano Filangieri to Argenio, a historic tailoring shop. For a special souvenir, Salvatore Argenio will make you a bespoke jumper made from pure cashmere in a choice of over 200 colours.

What lurks beneath the surface is a major theme throughout the Neapolitan Novels, starting when Lila and Lenu toss their dolls down a grate and then set off together to search the dirty ground below. Naples has a unique relationship with what lies underground, which you can experience on the Napoli Sotterranea tour. Groups explore Greek quarries that date back 5,000 years to Roman market stalls that mirror the shops above, where people wait in line for a table at restaurant Sorbillo. During the Second World War, these ancient portals were used as bomb shelters and during Lila and Lenu’s lives, residents threw rubbish in them. They were recently excavated so this important underground network could be restored.

Finally explore Naples’ historical centre, which has recently been pedestrianised, contributing to a steep rise in visitors to the city. Recently I overheard a gentleman, who would have come of age in Ferrante’s Naples, explain to a young British couple that his usual benches were now always occupied by tourists. (They graciously offered their seat.)

Fortunately the shops here are still assertively Neapolitan, like the glittering workshop Neapolitan Sacred Art. Artisan Fabio Paolella carries on the traditions of Naples’ golden period during the 1700s with decorative arts and jewellery. Ring the doorbell – Fabio and his wife might be deeply focused on repainting the eyelashes on a Virgin Mary, accompanied by jazz music and their English bulldog.

Have dinner at Trattoria da Carmela on Via Tribunali 376 and order gnocchi scarpariello, which means “of the shoemaker”. It’s a simple sauce of pureed tomatoes that can be put together quickly, even if you’re working. I like to imagine Lila and her brother Rino eating it while making the signature Cerullo shoe.

Where to stay

Those on a budget should choose B&B Maria Mari, where hosts Enzo and Maria care for their guests like family. It’s located next to the Pignasecca Market where the fish is so fresh it still has rigor mortis. A block away is Pizzeria da Attilio, where locals and tourists meet to devour the best expression of the Unesco-recognised Neapolitan ideals for pizza.

If you prefer an apartment with a kitchen, book Residenza Echia, adjacent to the waterfront, where a sunset stroll is mandatory.

For those who seeking a traditional hotel, consider the NH Ambassador. Though Neapolitans loathe the modern building’s appearance, the location is an ideal base for a Ferrante-inspired itinerary. The guest rooms begin on the 16th floor so the views are eye-popping whether you face the port or the city.

‘My Brilliant Friend’ continues on Mondays and Tuesdays on Sky Atlantic

====== 329 ========

COPENHAGEN BUDGET HOTELS: 10 BEST PLACES TO STAY FOR LOCATION AND VALUE

Popular as it is for weekend breaks, Copenhagen is also notoriously expensive as a destination. Choose your hotel wisely, however, and you don’t have to break the bank. The good news is that there are plenty of options – from a bunk in a high-quality hostel to an ensuite room in a well-priced hotel. It is totally possible to stay in style on a budget in this brilliant capital.

Best for perks: Hotel Danmark

Alongside its 89 four-star rooms, the boutique Hotel Danmark has two bunk-bed rooms, each sleeping six. There is one shower room, one toilet and two basins for guests, but you also have access to the same facilities as those in the hotel rooms – meaning 24-hour room service, free gym access and a daily wine hour between 5pm and 6pm. An organic breakfast is also included.

Bunks from DKK599pp (£70), B&B

brochner-hotels.com

Best for urban edge: A&O Copenhagen Norrebro

Stay here for the neighbourhood. Norrebro is one of the city’s most diverse areas, popular with students and artists. A&O hostel is part of a big chain that clearly knows the market well. From the modern and spacious rooms to the extras such as packed lunches and the flexibility to pay for a late checkout, this branch hits the spot. It sleeps 670 across 270 rooms, with singles, doubles and family accommodation as well as mixed dorms. All have ensuite showers, and linen is also provided. The common areas with table football and pool tables are perfect for meeting fellow travellers.

Dorms from DKK93 (£11), private doubles from DKK462 (£55)

aohostels.com

Best for flexibility: Wakeup Copenhagen Borgergade

Choose from three categories of rooms in this popular two star hotel: standard, which you’ll likely find at the back or on the lower floors of the building; “sky”, found on the middle floors with a better view; “heaven”, which have lovely views from the top floors. Whichever you pick, all 498 minimalist rooms come with TV, desk, AC and free wifi. Extras include a breakfast buffet (DKK90 per person) and bicycle hire.

Doubles from DKK400 (£47), room only

wakeupcopenhagen.dk

Best for comfort: Danhostel Copenhagen City

In a phenomenal location on Langebro Bridge, this is another classy hostel with private rooms and dorms. Facilities are basic, but all have a private bathroom, there’s free wifi throughout the hotel and guests can make use of the many common areas. There’s a new modern bar and shared kitchen facilities. Linen is free but you have to make your own bed. Order breakfast in advance to save DKK10 off the normal price.

Beds from DKK110 (£13), singles from DKK450 (£53), room only

danhostelcopenhagencity.dk

Best for a homely feel: Annex Copenhagen

This family run hostel features bright colours and a friendly crowd. It offers an affordable alternative to sister hotel Absalon, which sits next door. All rooms have free wifi, TV and high-quality bedding. Guests can hang out in a new common area, play board games or use the shared kitchen facilities.

Private singles from DKK450 (£53), room only

annexcopenhagen.dk

Best for budget luxe: Steel House Copenhagen

One of a raft of new accommodations opened in Copenhagen in the last few years, Steel House opened in 2017. Once the home of the Danish Union of Metalworkers, the revamped building is now one of the finest hostels in the city. With 1,154 beds across 253 rooms, there’s an option for every budget and taste – from dorms to private rooms complete with terraces.

Whichever you pick, all rooms have air conditioning, storage space, one power socket per bed (in the dorms) and free linen and towels. Single and double rooms have Getama mattresses, a TV and private bathroom. Throughout the hotel there’s free wifi, and there’s a cafe, bar, gym and pool – as well as a self-service kitchen and lounge area.

Beds from DKK125 (£15), doubles from DKK400 (£47), room only

steelhousecopenhagen.com

Best for location: Good Morning Copenhagen Star

Recently renovated and five minutes from the central station in hip Vesterbro, rooms here come in every configuration imaginable – from standard single to five-bed family accommodation, all with private bathrooms and a view of the city. They’re all rather functional but well sized, but bear in mind that the low prices mean extra comforts can feel in short supply; there are no toiletries in the bathroom, for example, although there are tea and coffee-making facilities. There’s a bar and restaurant onsite.

Doubles from DKK1391 (£164), B&B

copenhagen-star-hotel.copenhagen-hotel.net

Best for a room with a view: Copenhagen Island

Steel, glass and light are the dominant elements here – which fit the location, connected to Copenhagen Harbour by a bridge. Standard rooms have city views, but upgrade to superior or executive rooms for breathtaking water views or splash out on a junior suite, which have panoramic views and elevated beds. There are also rooms for allergy sufferers, with special duvets and pillows, and wooden floors.

Doubles from DKK1095 (£130), room only

copenhagen-island.copenhagen-hotel.net

Best for eco warriors: Axel Guldsmeden

Axel Guldsmeden is big on its sustainable credentials and is Green Globe certified. This means materials used in rooms are sustainable – think bamboo and organic cotton. Luckily, there seems to be an equal emphasis on comfort. All rooms have four-poster beds and feature Balinese-style furnishings and hipster decor. They’re stocked with the finer things in life: bathrobes, slippers and own-brand organic toiletries. Breakfast (priced at DKK185) is, predictably, totally organic.

Doubles from DKK995 (£117), room only

guldsmedenhotels.com

Best for a city oasis: Hotel Christian IV

Located on a quiet street and a stone’s throw from Copenhagen’s gorgeous harbour and the wealth of restaurants and bars of the iconic Nyhavn, this is a great choice if you want to be in the centre but with room to roam. There are four room sizes here, from simple single to superior double. All are furnished with facilities including cable TV, soundproofed windows and free wifi. The hotel serves complimentary hot drinks and pastries in the afternoons.

Doubles from DKK1,165 (£138), B&B

hotelchristianiv.dk

Best for four-star decadence: The Square

With some careful planning, it’s possible to bag great rates at this four-star hotel, right on the central Town Hall Square. All 268 rooms come with coffee and tea making facilities, free wifi, black-out curtains, flat screen TV, plus some extras that are a bit more special, like a Bluetooth music streaming centre. The pricier rooms feature views across the square and added perks such as robes and an espresso machine. There’s no restaurant here, but the lounge, which stays open until 10pm every day, offers a selection of drinks and snacks.

Doubles from DKK1071 (£127), room only

thesquare.dk

Best for staying connected: Generator

Located in a modern Philippe Starck-designed development, Generator Copenhagen is found a stone’s throw from Kongen’s Nytorv square and is brilliantly connected – most points of interest are accessible by foot or bike. Generator offers hotel comforts at hostel prices with free wi-fi, bar, café and a 24-hour reception. The common areas include a terrace, petanque bar, laundry and shared chill-out areas. Choose from private rooms for up to six people and dorm rooms, including female only, that can fit up to eight. Private rooms have en-suite bathrooms, towels and a clothes hanging unit. Shared rooms feature bunks with privacy screens, lock-up storage and reading lights. Towels in shared rooms cost extra.

Private room from DKK355( £42), dorms from DKK121.50 (£14)

generatorhostels.com/destinations/Copenhagen

Best for history: First Hotel Kong Frederik

Allegedly the oldest hotel in Copenhagen, this centrally located hotel provides an atmospheric place to rest your head. The 110 rooms are made up of singles, doubles and triples as well as junior suites and the plush Kong Frederik suite, which comes with a private terrace and panoramic views. Standard rooms come with comfortable Jensen beds and the usual amenities including minibar. The hotel’s Italian restaurant is open for dinner while the breakfast buffet is available for an extra daily fee.

Doubles from DKK938 (£111), room only

firsthotels.dk/hoteller/danmark/kobenhavn/first-hotel-kong-frederik

Best for community: Woodah hostel

Aiming to offer more than just a bed for the night, Woodah considers itself more of a community hub for the budget-minded and eco-conscious. It is small, cosy and popular for its cleanliness and welcoming atmosphere. Located in the buzzy Vesterbro neighbourhood, it offers a total of 30 bunk beds, each with a curtain, reading light and private locker. Bed linen is included and there are several chill-out areas to relax in. There are two shared bathrooms and four shared toilets complete with hairdryers. Meet fellow travellers in the café – guests get 20 per cent off everything – or take part in regular yoga classes, organised with local yoga schools.

Dorms from DKK264 (£31), B&B

woodah-hostel.com

Best for families: Hotel Rye Copenhagen

For a homely stay in the Danish capital head to this small hotel in the neighbourhood of Østerbro, one of Copenhagen’s greenest and most visually pleasing areas. You’ll find yourself within walking distance of the city’s lakes, the citadel grounds and the little mermaid. Østerbro is well connected to the popular sights, buses and trains running from nearby. It’s suited to everyone from the single traveller to families, with different room types available. All have shared bathrooms, free wifi, TV and all linen and towels provided. The popular organic breakfast includes homemade buns and is included in the price.

Doubles from DKK995 (£118), B&B

hotelrye.dk

This article was originally published in April 2018

====== 330 ========

PARIS BUDGET HOTELS: 10 BEST VALUE OF MONEY LOCATIONS UNDER €100

Paris: so much to see, do eat, shop, admire and ogle, so why bother splurging on an expensive bed for the night when you’re hardly going to be there? But before you go roughing it, remember that Paris demands a certain level of style – it’s the home of fashion, romance and fine cuisine, after all. Enter, then, a host of fantastic hotels, hostels and even a campsite where it’s possible to find a chic abode for less than €100 a night, while the newly opened Hoxton Paris provides tough competition with its 172 rooms, three bars and an excellent restaurant.

Best for style: Mama Shelter

Mama Shelter started the trend for design on a budget when it opened in 2009. Having extended across France and beyond in the past decade, with hotels in Rio, Los Angeles and Belgrade, its style-on-a-budget brand has gained fans worldwide. Their Paris hotel, close to the Père Lachaise cemetery and the hip Belleville district, is the original and was designed by Philippe Starck.

The top French designer’s quirky vibe runs throughout the 172 bedrooms, which are small and cocoon-like with black and grey decor, as well as the laidback restaurant, which offers a number of dishes from Michelin-star chef Guy Savoy.

Doubles from €79, room only

mamashelter.com

Best for hanging out: Hoxton Paris

Following on from its success in London, the Hoxton opened in Paris in the summer of 2017 and has quickly become the place to see and be seen, whether staying in the hotel, sipping cocktails in one of its bars or dining in its restaurant. While its size – the 172 rooms are set on long corridors over four floors – can feel a little impersonal at times, the personal touch comes from the friendly staff, while the cosy florals and velvets with full-height windows and Moroccan-inspired cocktails in Jacques Bar make it a destination in itself. Rooms are thoughtfully designed with leather headboards, herringbone fabrics and parquet floors.

Doubles from €99, B&B (free light breakfast bag delivered to your room)

thehoxton.com

Best for a really tight budget: Generator Hostel

Time was, the word hostel was a byword for skanky showers, uncomfortable bunks and snoring room rates, but with the new breed of cool hostels from the Generator chain – found throughout Europe – you can expect a fantastic rooftop bar with views towards the Sacré-Coeur, a cool brasserie, free wi-fi and the cool Canal Saint-Martin district on the doorstep. Of course they can’t guarantee a lack of snoring room mates, but that’s where the private rooms come in, with twin or quad beds.

Dorm beds from €17, private twin rooms from €78, room only (breakfast from €2)

generatorhostels.com​

Best for escaping the city: Okko Hotels

This relatively new chain of four-star hotels is springing up in cities across France. With its cool concept of smallish rooms balanced with a large central area known as The Club, there’s plenty of space to relax. One of their main attractions is that the room price has no hidden extras and includes breakfast, an aperitif, snacks, wifi, international phone calls (up to €10), videos on demand and access to the fitness suite.

For all the pros, however, there is a con – distance from the main sights. The Porte de Versailles hotel is a half-hour train ride from the Eiffel Tower; while their Rueil Malmaison is even further out. A third Paris hotel, at the more central Montparnasse, is due to open in 2019.

Doubles from €99, B&B

okkohotels.com

Best for a fun weekend: Idol Hotel

Get your groove on before you check into this disco-themed hotel, where the rooms are named after classic tunes such as “Ma Cherie Amour”, “Light My Fire” and “Lady Soul”.

Decor is loud, shamelessly bold and wonderfully kitsch – you might never have seen this much gold (in a good way, though) unless you’ve stayed in Trump Towers – but it’s all fantastically fun. Music lovers will also appreciate the concierge’s tips on where to find Paris’ best concerts, gigs and clubs.

Doubles from €90, room only (breakfast from €8.50)

idolhotel-paris.com​

Best for the planet: Solar Hotel

This pricing policy of this eco-friendly budget hotel is dedicated to being transparent, with everything included in the room price and no surprises, keeping the same price all year round. This extends beyond the generous organic breakfast to also include wiifi, phone calls and bicycles to borrow to explore the city.

Rooms are simple with white walls and splashes of colour in the blue curtains and orange headboards; some have balconies overlooking the leafy courtyard garden. Among the hotel’s many ecological initiatives, there are solar panels (of course), energy-saving lightbulbs and waste is sorted for recycling.

Doubles from €89, B&B

solarhotel.fr​

Best for stopovers: CitizenM

With three different hotels in Paris, the most central being that at the Gare de Lyon (making for an easy onward journey the next day) this international brand of design-led, cost-conscious hotels subscribes to the ethos of stack ’em high, sell ’em cheap; but that doesn’t mean that service, decor and facilities are compromised.

The Gare de Lyon hotel has 338 rooms, with square beds tucked into the end of the room, luxury linen, an in-room power shower and unlimited free movies.

The communal areas offer the space that the rooms lack, with cool decor and plenty of room to sit back with a book or sip a cocktail.

Doubles from €84, room only (breakfast €14.95 if booked in advance)

citizenm.com

Best for location: Hotel Jeanne d’Arc

Set in the heart of the Marais, one of Paris’ hippest districts, this three-star hotel was always a favourite with those in the know, but since its recent refurb it is a real gem.

All 34 of its rooms have had a facelift with elegant decor in neutral tones with splashes of muted colour. The new owners have thought of everything with tea and coffee-making facilities in the rooms, a simple but varied breakfast, and free wi-fi. If you can tear yourself away, get out into the area’s trendy bars and restaurants for aperitifs and dinner.

Doubles from €99, room only (breakfast €8)

hoteljeannedarc.com

Best for a friendly welcome: Hotel Port Royal

Run by the fourth generation of the same family, this simple but comfortable hotel makes for a great bolthole. It’s situated in the leafy fifth arrondissement, near the Sorbonne and a short stroll from the Jardin des Plantes.

Rooms are dinky and the decor isn’t flash. It’s also worth noting that some of the rooms only have a sink, rather than a full ensuite – shared toilets and showers are on the landing (remember when most hotels were like that?) – but everything is spick and span and staff are friendly.

Doubles from €68, room only (breakfast €8)

port-royal-hotel.fr

Best for families: Camping de Paris

Many of us have fond memories of camping in France as kids, but if the thought of kipping under damp canvas means you’ve consigned it firmly to the past, think again. The French have well and truly embraced glamping, and at Camping de Paris this means comfy beds and wooden floors in the safari-style tents, or kooky gypsy caravans and cosy cabins.

Set at the edge of the Bois de Boulogne, just 20-25 minutes from some of the main sights, the campsite offers a good option for families or those on a budget.

Takeaway meals can be bought from the cool new food truck, which serves pizza and other dishes, while fresh croissants can be delivered to your cabin for breakfast.

Tents for up to four people cost from €78 per night, breakfast from €4.50

campingparis.fr/​

Best for flea market fans: Mob hotel

This relatively new hotel (opened March 2017) in the Saint-Ouen district in northern Paris makes for a super-chic bolthole, with rates that leave plenty of dosh for spending in the nearby flea markets. The 92 rooms have bags of personality, with knick-knacks and vintage finds set off against clean and simple design. There is an inviting rooftop bar serving cocktails as well as a restaurant serving organic and sustainable produce.

Doubles from €79, room only

mobhotel.com

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

This article has been updated. It was originally published in March 2018.

====== 331 ========

COPENHAGEN BUDGET HOTELS: 10 BEST PLACES TO STAY FOR LOCATION AND VALUE

Copenhagen is a city that delivers style in spades – effortlessly cool, with slick design everywhere you look. And as Scandimania has taken hold around the world over the past few years, there’s been a steady stream of new tourists landing in the Danish capital.

The increase in visitors has prompted a surge in new hotels, but Copenhagen can still be an expensive city, and choosing the right hotel is vital. So let me help. I grew up here, and still visit several times a year, spending my adult life testing the hotels. Here’s my pick of those which hit the right balance between style, price and comfort.

Best for boho charm: SP34

In the Latin quarter, a short walk from Stroeget (Europe’s longest pedestrianised shopping street), Hotel SP34 is located in a series of converted townhouses. A sharp sense of style and a roof terrace for sunny days make it a popular choice. The hotel has rooms to suit all budgets, from the small single to the lush penthouse, which comes with a free bar and private roof terrace. Regardless of size, however, they all have the same clean Nordic design and functionality – plus upmarket REN toiletries.

The well-stocked bar claims to have the largest selection of port wine in Denmark and serves an organic lager, brewed especially for the hotel. Best of all? The daily wine hour, between 5pm and 6pm.

Doubles from DKK1250 (£148), B&B

brochner-hotels.dk​

Best for urban cool: The Andersen

Book direct with The Andersen, and instead of a set check-in and check-out time, you’ll get your room for a straight 24 hours. That’s not the only forward-thinking thing about this hotel, which has

gone all out on the design elements. Each of the 69 rooms is decorated in a different style, and all feature wallpaper and curtains by the Designers Guild brand. There are three classes of rooms, from “Cool” to “Amazing”. Rooms have fittings by Philippe Starck and amenities from Molton Brown. There’s no restaurant, but there’s an honesty bar and a daily wine hour from 5pm to 6pm.

Doubles from DKK1425 (£168), B&B

ndersen-hotel.dk​

Best for modernism: Radisson Blu Royal Copenhagen

Legendary Danish designer Arne Jacobsen, famous for his swan and egg chairs, did the interiors of this iconic hotel in central Copenhagen. It was the city’s first skyscraper when it was built in 1960 for staff of Scandinavian Airlines (now SAS), and is currently undergoing renovations to update the building while maintaining its iconic design. Room 606, a showcase of Jacobsen’s work, has been kept exactly as he designed it with 1960s decor; a grey-blue colour scheme, plenty of wood panels and minimal decoration. Unsurprisingly, it’s one of the most photographed hotel rooms in the world.

Doubles from DKK 1295 (£153), room only

radissonblu.com/en/royalhotel-copenhagen

Best for vintage: Hotel Alexandra

The team behind the Alexandra has spent years collecting Danish mid-century vintage design furniture – staying here might feel like you are staying in the home of a trendy local in the 1950s or 1960s. Pieces by iconic designers such as Kaare Klint and Ole Wancher are matched with textiles and decorations reminiscent of the mid-century period to complete the experience.

Doubles from DKK1451 (£171), room only

hotelalexandra.dk​

Best for art: Ibsens Hotel

Location, location, location. Minutes from Nøerreport station, the botanical gardens one side, the inner city on the other, Ibsens is set in a 19th century building that was rebuilt in 2011. The emphasis here is on feeling at home: a fireplace welcomes guests in the lobby and rooms are decorated to feel cosy but functional with minimal clutter. Ibsens champions the arts community: the hotel is decorated with arts and craft from local artists. There are also bikes for rent.

Doubles from DKK650 (£77), room only

arthurhotels.dk/ibsens-hotel

Best for budget: The Savoy

Renovated in recent years, this family-owned hotel is a good option for travellers who need to mind their budget but still want a central location. The 66 rooms here come in eight configurations to suit all price levels, and are simply (but pleasantly) styled with wooden headboards and feature wallpaper behind the beds. Comfort and functionality are the focus here; all rooms have views to a small patio.

Doubles from DKK1150 (£136), B&B

savoyhotel.dk​

Best for views: 71 Nyhavn Hotel

Set in two former warehouses – one red and one yellow – on the edge of Copenhagen harbour, many of the rooms at 71 Nyhavn come with beautiful waterside views of the city. The 19th-century buildings have been carefully renovated, with 130 rooms retaining the warehouse feel with features like exposed wood beams and large windows. New to the hotel is the restaurant SEA by Kiin Kiin, a spin-off of the Michelin-starred Kiin Kiin.

Doubles from DKK1900 (£225), room only

71nyhavnhotel.dk​

Here’s something different: a barge-turned-12-room-hotel docked in the middle of Copenhagen, in Christianshavn. Rooms represent the best of clean Danish design, with uncluttered water views through the full-length windows. A glass panel separating the bathroom and the bedroom allows you to shower with a view. The large rooftop terrace is perfect for those sunny days.

Doubles from DKK1,380 (£163), B&B

cphliving.com​

Best for history: Hotel Skt Annae

Guests no longer have to utter the password “Neptune” to get a room here – Skt Annae’s past as an illegal hotel for smugglers and small-time criminals (the 17th-century building has been a hotel since 1851) is long gone. A painstaking renovation in 2016 brought rooms and communal areas up to date – it also added 99 new rooms. Expect muted shades of grey and blue and functional comfort, with added extras like White Company toiletries. Format, the restaurant, is one of the city’s best.

Doubles from DKK 1395 (£165), room only

hotelsktannae.dk​

Best for luxury: Nobis Hotel

The hotly anticipated five-star Nobis Hotel opened in 2017 and is a former music conservatoire, with its 77 rooms offering all-out luxury in the city centre. In a prime location next to Tivoli Gardens, the building has retained many period features like the grand, main marble staircase. Most of the rooms have high ceilings, so even the smallest ones feel spacious and airy. Expect minimalist lighting, leather furniture and light wood flooring. The fitness centre has a 24-hour sauna and hammam.

Doubles from DKK2700 (£319), room only

nobishotel.dk​

Best for free wheels: Scandic Kødbyen

This new hotel from the well-known Scandic chain opened its doors to visitors in September. Located in the middle of Copenhagen’s creative Vesterbro neighbourhood and next to the former meatpacking district (Kødbyen in Danish), Scandic is surrounded by interesting cafes and independent restaurants; inside the hotel the restaurant is built around a wood fired Argentine. There are five types of rooms, from standard double to master suite, and there’s also an onsite gym and free bike loan available. Rooms all have standard features including safe, free Wi-Fi and black-out curtains. In the bathroom, amenities come from FACE Stockholm.

Doubles from DKK792 (£94), B&B

scandichotels.com

Best for rooftop swimming: Nimb Hotel

This popular hotel in Tivoli, Europe’s oldest amusement park, has a lot going for it. For starters, all except one of the 38 rooms has views overlooking the gorgeous gardens of Tivoli. Earlier this year Nimb became the first hotel in the Danish capital to offer a rooftop pool – Nimb Roof is also the place to take in the sunshine and enjoy a drink from the cocktail bar. Rooms include Bang and Olufsen audio system, Apple TV and Nespresso machines as well as luxury bath products from Meraki. Restaurants attached to the hotel include Fru Nimb, serving classic Danish smørrebrød, traditional open sandwiches of rye bread with a variety of toppings.

Doubles from DKK2,800 (£332), room only

nimb.dk/da/hotel

Best for on-the-house boozing: Hotel Herman K

A new five-star boutique hotel for Copenhagen in a converted transformer station, Herman K has just 31 exclusive rooms and suites, some with private balconies or roof terraces. Rooms, ranging from the Tiny category to the two-floor penthouse suite, feature simple Nordic design, custom-designed beds and REN bathroom products. Guests can use their smartphone to unlock the doors and the rooms are all set up to stream music and films from your own devices. Price includes an organic breakfast, free Wi-Fi and an invitation to attend the daily wine hour (5-6pm) and the nightcap hour (10-11pm), where guests can grab a drink for free.

Doubles from DKK3,500 (£415), B&B

brochner-hotels.com/hotel-herman-k

Best for groups and families: Manon Les Suites

This all-suite hotel, in the heart of the action, is mere minutes’ walk from central attractions such as the gourmet market Torvehallerne and Tivoli gardens. Rooms decorated in cool Nordic style with classic design touches and clean lines can accommodate up to four people, so it’s perfect for groups and families. Suites also include a kitchenette and a seating area. As an added bonus Manon Les Suites has a pool for the use of guests and a rooftop café for relaxing after a hard day’s sightseeing. The organic breakfast buffet is an extra DKK185 (£22).

Doubles from DKK1,595 (£189), room only

guldsmedenhotels.com/manon-les-suites

Best for casual luxury: Sanders

Described as casual luxury, Sanders Copenhagen is all about creating a home away from home feel, albeit a very special one. Created by former dancer in the Royal Danish Ballet Alexander Kølpin, Sanders is located a hop, skip and a jump from Nyhavn. The 54 rooms have been designed in classic light and airy Danish style – think wood floors and white tiles. Wood panelling and brass knobs add a colonial hint to the well thought-out design. The hotel also has several communal areas, including the Living Room, where guests can relax with one of the many books and enjoy a drink or a coffee. The Sanders Kitchen serves breakfast, lunch and dinner while The Courtyard and the rooftop terrace are casual places to hang out.

Doubles from DKK2,700 (£320), B&B

hotelsanders.com

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

This article was first published in January 2018

====== 332 ========

EATON DC: INSIDE THE WORLD'S FIRST 'ACTIVIST' HOTEL

“Today feels like victory,” declares Gabrielle Tayac, an elder of Washington DC’s indigenous Piscataway tribe, to a cheering room.

Her audience is a mix of multigenerational Native Americans, frustrated oldschool DC residents and sage-burning influencers, whose sharp elbows in pursuit of an Instagram story seem decidedly unspiritual. It’s the opening weekend of the 209-room Eaton DC, billed as “the world’s first activist hotel”, and they’re here to honour the tribal land on which the hotel was built.

Given we’re in Washington DC, a district built on neutrality – DC residents have no representation in the Senate – opening an overtly political hotel might seem a strange move.

But then, the hotel’s owner can afford to take risks. Katherine Lo, 36, is real estate royalty: her father is Lo Ka Shui, the billionaire owner of Great Eagle Holdings, the umbrella company for swish hotel group Langham Hotels. He asked his daughter, who has no professional background in hospitality, to create a new line of hotels that would “disrupt” the industry; both a tall order and a well worn concept.

In recent years, hoteliers have introduced co-working spaces, reworked room service, removed rarely used services like bellhops and concierges and decreased room sizes and rates for the millennial generation, in the name of “disruption”. Eaton is styled in the same vein: there’s a 300-seat co-working space, staff in jeans and bomber jackets, in-room record players and vinyls, black-and-white family photos sourced from vintage shops and brushed metal fixtures and crystals repurposed as lighting features. Lo certainly isn’t the first to try it, but she may just be the canniest. The conscious hipster details – the rooftop bar Wild Days serves California-style tacos and the latest vegan fad, Impossible Foods nachos, alongside a $250 (£195) fine for smoking outdoors – belie an underlying fearlessness.

Which makes sense: the hotel itself is funding the nonprofit Eaton Workshop, described as a “purpose-driven company at the intersection of culture, media, hospitality, wellness and progressive social change”.

Lo tells me she got into environmental activism in her late teens, but that it came to fruition during her time at Yale University when another divisive president took office. “George W Bush became president in my sophomore year,” she says. “The war in Iraq started, so I just became really active in those kinds of movements.”

The wider Eaton Workshop – built around the hotel as its hub – is physically and digitally dedicated to three concepts. The first, amplifying the media, is led by an onsite radio station that supports artists and grassroots activists discussing anything from “fake news and America’s role in the anti-media” to important intersectional dialogue; and underground musicians rotating between pirate-style DJ sets and acoustic performances. Crucially, this isn’t just live-streamed into the hotel, but directly onto the internet: there are plans for podcasts and an almost 24/7 operation. It’s supported by a Radical Library, which loans free-thinking works by category, ranging from race-inclusive narratives to modern wellness and sport to women’s rights and feminist works. There’s also an art deco cinema screening Eaton’s own commissions – as well as films calling for change.

The second pillar is social and environmental impact which, heavy with PR spin, wants to remind the local hospitality industry of its role in historical revolutions and not just in $20 cocktails. (Impressively, the hotel has abandoned an in-room Bible for the UN Declaration of Human Rights.) Lastly comes new-age wellness, which appears to vary between a robust programme of holistic practises to rather reverently presenting guests with charged crystals upon check-in.

Unsurprisingly the marked distinctions drawn between Lo and another American hotel heiress with little discernible experience for a job her father gave her, coupled with Eaton’s proximity to the White House itself, immediately saw Eaton DC billed as “the anti-Trump hotel” – about which Lo herself is vocal. “I think because we stand for inclusivity and diversity and women’s rights and the environment, that I would be very proud to be called something that’s in opposition to those things.”

It’s about time to listen, then. With work already underway on Eaton openings in Hong Kong, Seattle and San Francisco, this noise is only going to get louder.

Doubles from £156, room only

eatonworkshop.com/hotel/dc

Four other Washington DC hotels

Don’t let the drab exterior fool you: this is one of the best little hotels in Dupont Circle. While the interiors are newly refurbished, the hotel’s calling card is its rooftop pool on the ninth floor – if you’re not swimming or lounging next to it, you can try one of the hotel’s free rooftop yoga classes. Helpful, after a night out at the local bars.

From £133, room only

destinationhotels.com/embassy-row-hotel

The first indication that a younger, cooler side to DC truly existed, The Line opened its doors – those of a former church, naturally – in party district Adams Morgan, and has been packed ever since. Expect clean, bright decor that nods to the building’s heritage, as well as two smart restaurants and a buzzy bar.

From £166, room only

thelinehotel.com/dc/

Forget what you think you know about chain hotels – this feels a bit like staying in a stylish mate’s place downtown. Little wonder, then, that it’s a converted block of flats. It’s all plush, textured fabrics, eclectic art and comfortable armchairs; but with sprawling public areas (order a beer at the hotel’s chilled out rooftop bar).

From £143, room only

masonandrookhotel.com

This DC institution may have had a facelift in 2016, but it’s held onto the past for TV tourism; not only by getting the costume designer for Scandal, Lyn Paolo, to redesign the most infamous room in the house à la Olivia Pope, but employing Mad Men’s costume designer, Janie Bryant, to design staff uniforms.

From £343, room only

thewatergatehotel.com

====== 333 ========

THE 10 BEST THINGS TO DO IN WEST HOLLYWOOD’S DESIGN DISTRICT

Yeah yeah, Los Angeles is all about entertainment. Everything about it is too brash. And it’s definitely not walkable... right?

Not so in West Hollywood Design District, a compact bohemian neighbourhood that includes sections of Melrose Avenue, Robertson Boulevard and Beverly Boulevard, where residents pray at the altar of Poggenpohl and Helmut Lang rather than that of the Kardashian clan. This artsy neighbourhood is home to the highest concentration of furniture shops on the American west coast, and it’s walkable: not something you usually say about Los Angeles. Plus, it got a zingy new hotel earlier this year – Kimpton La Peer – which has already held some high-profile parties.

Here are 10 essential things to do in and around the design district.

Check into Kimpton La Peer

Kimpton hotels are known for their playful, design-focused character: and Kimpton La Peer, which opened early this year, is no different. The property (although not a boutique, it feels like one) looks like a whitewashed adobe house from the outside, and an Icelandic landscape inside, thanks to the interior design skills of Los Angeles-based designer Gulla Jónsdóttir. Rooms have subtle artistic touches, think Jeff Koons-esque gold abbits on side tables and huge white freestanding bathtubs, while ground-level restaurant Viale dei Romani does criminally good things with truffle. The hotel is the ideal starting point to explore West Hollywood Design District, not least because of the gorgeous illustrated maps available at the front desk. Don’t go exploring the streets without one.

Cycle along the Sunset Strip

The 1.6 mile portion of Sunset Boulevard that runs through West Hollywood is the most storied, which is also why it has the best name: the Sunset Strip. It’s usually dripping in celebs (for the best spotting opportunities, visit The Tower Bar at the Sunset Tower Hotel), who come here to catch live music at The Viper Room, brunch at upscale cafes, or drink cocktails around the pool at all-out glamorous Chateau Marmont. If you can’t afford to do any of that, you can cycle along the Strip and leer at the famous people having coffee at the many pavement cafes.

Have a drink at Craig’s

Although it looks like a dreary sports bar, Craig’s is West Hollywood’s premier sizzling celeb hotspot (think big-hitters such as Mariah Carey and Kris Jenner, although on my visit the tally was somewhere near zero. Helpfully, the oval tables are organised in front-facing rows to maximise people-watching opportunities, and the menu... well, no idea. But you’re not here for the food, are you?

Visit the Pacific Design Centre

Formerly the West Hollywood railyard, the more than one-million-square-foot large Pacific Design Centre is made up of three angular glass blocks in green, red and blue. Within it is a branch of the Museum of Contemporary Art, a network of designer showrooms and a whole host of intelligent programming, from talks and workshops to screenings and exhibitions. The bright blue building, designed by starchitect Cesar Pelli, is known affectionately as the Blue Whale – not hard to see why.

Nose around Restoration Hardware

Palm tree-studded Melrose Avenue is the street where you’ll find top fashion chains, quirky homeware boutiques and cool shopping concepts. Start at Restoration Hardware (RH for short): a three-level furniture emporium that is anecdotally known as “Ikea for rich people”. Above the three levels of gorgeous sofas and rugs is a vast roof terrace with squashy sofas and blockbuster views over the surrounding Hollywood hills. It’s a public space, which means it’s perfectly OK to come up here and enjoy a bottle of wine as the sun sets, peering down at the stars eating at pavement Urth Caffe.

Shop at Melrose’s quirky boutiques

Elsewhere on Melrose, there’s Instagram-famous beauty brand Glossier, American apparel store Rag & Bone, and an intelligent Nike pop-up store – a concept stocked entirely according to big data. The sportswear brand analysed the purchases of West Hollywood residents and only stocks what it knows they want to buy. Further up the road there’s the frightening high fashion of Maxfield, which advertises itself as “a state of mind” rather than a shopping destination. It’s the kind of shop that stocks razor-thin sunglasses and tops that would pass for a perspex wine jacket.

Visit West Hollywood’s design studios

The design district got its name from a revolutionary estate agent called Ron Kates (he still has an office on Robertson Boulevard), who rented space to designers and architects half a century ago. They still congregate here today. Of the many architects’ studios, galleries and designers in the district, there’s one that definitely warrants a nose around: the studio of Martyn Lawrence Bullard, the British designer who decked out the Kardashians’ mansions. Come to gawp at the bulbous light fittings, zany rugs and sheep-shaped footstools.

Ogle some street art

No creative neighbourhood would be complete without some scratchy graffiti mural on the side of a building. West Hollywood has plenty: there’s the butterflies outside John and Pete’s Fine Wine and Spirits on La Cienega Boulevard, or the Paul Smith pink wall. Some lesser-appreciated spots include the monochrome mural by street artist Retna, right outside slebby restaurant Craig’s, or the spectacled bulldog outside the VCA TLC Animal Hospital on the corner of Robertson and Melrose.

Visit Shape House

The name doesn’t begin to hint at how weird this health studio is, but if you believe the marketing it’s a West Hollywood institution. A typical Shape House treatment involves you sliding into a heated blanket, wrapped up like a burrito, for 55 minutes, during which you can watch Netflix or scroll Instagram. The only catch is: it’s heated to 70C, which means you sweat... a lot. Shape House claims a session can burn between 800 and 1,600 calories per session.

Look down from Runyon Canyon

OK, technically this isn’t in the design district, but hiking up Los Angeles’ most well-trodden path gives you a bloody good look at it. Plus, a two hour zap up the canyon is a) great for celebrity house spotting, b) a very good cure for jetlag and c) the best opportunity you’ll have to get a feel for the sheer scale of this city. Book with Hikes and Bikes LA for an uptempo instructor who will come in handy to warn off the rattlesnakes that live in these hills.

Travel essentials

Getting there

Virgin Atlantic, Air New Zealand, British Airways, Norwegian and American Airlines fly from the UK to Los Angeles from around £340 return.

Staying there

Rooms at Kimpton La Peer start from $425 a night. Kimpton Fitzroy, the first Kimpton property in Europe, is now open in London’s Bloomsbury.

====== 334 ========

NEW YORK LUXURY HOTELS: 10 BEST PLACES TO STAY FOR STYLE AND LOCATION

New York may be the city that never sleeps but when you’re paying top dollar for a hotel room, you’re going to want some quality shuteye. Fortunately the luxury hotels in Manhattan are among the best in the world, offering the finest interiors from renowned designers, chic in-room amenities, attentive service, and glorious city views (which is often the number one selling point for a hotel).

As a hotel-obsessed journalist and travel specialist who has closely chronicled New York’s whirlwind hotel scene for more than a decade (I also grew up just 30 minutes outside of the city), I can confidently say the luxury lodging options here continue to be better than ever. Yet not so surprisingly, in a city that reveres institutions, some of the best hotels are the ones that have always been there – they’ve just been tweaked a touch.

Best for scene: New York Edition

The sexy Edition brand, created by Studio 54 legend-turned-boutique-hotelier Ian Schrager in partnership with Marriott Hotels, caters to sophisticated travellers who are after high design and exciting nightlife, rolled up in five-star service. The New York outpost delivers on all of that.

In Madison Square Park’s Clocktower Building, a Beaux-Arts landmark dating back to 1909, the 273 rooms (designed by The Rockwell Group) feature a minimalist layout with neutral-coloured furniture and fabrics, save for the oak-panelled foyers, walnut headboards and faux fur throws on the bed. Some rooms have original scalloped ceilings while others have Instagram-perfect views of the Empire State Building.

Downstairs, the Lobby Bar with its sultry backlit shelves of liquor, is a beacon for NYC’s prettiest people. Up a winding helix-shaped staircase is the Clocktower Restaurant where chef Jason Atherton serves contemporary British cuisine in three separate dining rooms, each with a different theme, and all adorned with giant photos of NYC’s famous denizens. The best room to book is a Loft Studio Suite which are typically corner rooms with views up Madison Avenue and west across the park.

Doubles from $465 (£337), room only

editionhotels.com

Best for design inspiration: The Crosby Street Hotel

The thoroughly British Firmdale Hotels first crossed the pond in 2009 to open the Crosby Street Hotel in Soho (their second NYC hotel, The Whitby, opened in 2017). Almost a decade later, the hotel, which sits off Soho’s main shopping thoroughfare, still feels like a fresh face, thanks in part to Firmdale’s design director Kit Kemp and her never-boring mix of patterns and prints. Each of the 86 rooms has floor-to-ceiling windows letting in natural light, charming fabric-covered headboards and original artwork.

Splurging for a deluxe one-bedroom suite on the upper floors will get you not just more space and more design elements to copy for your own home, but also jaw-dropping views of downtown. The Crosby Bar is a cosy place to take in a meal or afternoon tea (especially during the winter months) while the back patio during spring and summer is an idyllic respite from the city hustle.

Doubles from $695 (£503), room only

firmdalehotels.com

Best for artists: The Mercer

One of the original boutique hotels in Soho, The Mercer has retained its exclusive je nai se quoi even after 20 years. Part of that has to do with the air of mystery the hotel cultivates; the other part of it no doubt comes from the repeat celebrity guests (this is the sister hotel to Hollywood’s infamous Chateau Marmont; Kanye has stayed here while recording his albums). The rooms are unabashedly tiny, starting at a minuscule 250sq ft, but most have high ceilings, and you’re paying for the excellent location on a cobble-stoned street on the corner of Mercer and Prince, with luxury shops and art galleries stacked all around.

Studio rooms and suites give a bit more wiggle room, as well as better views and oversized bathtubs. The Mercer Kitchen, a two-storey restaurant serving food from ubiquitous hotel chef Jean-George Vongerichten, is after all these years, still a place to see and be seen.

Doubles from $544 (£394), room only

mercerhotel.com

Best for families: The Surrey

Parents who don’t want to sacrifice style or comfort when travelling with children will find just what they need at The Surrey on the Upper East Side. One block from Central Park and its popular Alice in Wonderland bronze statue, the hotel’s 190 elegant rooms feature a mix of king, queen and twin beds, the latter being a rare commodity in New York, but essential for families.

Luxurious amenities include Duxiana beds, Sferra linens, Pratesi bathrobes, a pillow menu, delightful window seats, and an in-room mixology cart (although that’s hands-off for the kids). The hotel is also known to hand out special frog backpacks to their little guests, which are filled with snacks and activity suggestions for the area.

At night, parents who’ve arranged a babysitter can indulge in French cuisine from Daniel Boulud’s casual-ish Boulud Café or linger over cocktails at the Art Deco-inspired Bar Pleiades.

Doubles from $745 (£540), room only

thesurrey.com

Best for privacy: NoMad Hotel

Meant to be a fresh take on the grand European hotels of yore, the NoMad sometimes feels as if it’s from another century entirely, or at least from a time before we were all obsessed with handheld devices. French designer Jacques Garcia lent his simple yet classical vision to the an original Beaux-Arts building north of Madison Square Park (hence the name.) Custom furniture, such as clawfoot bathtubs, Heriz rugs, French writing desks and deep leather club chairs, give each of the 168 rooms an individual – and residential – feel, while modern amenities like a flat-screen TV and fast WiFi give guests the comforts of their ultra-connected lives.

On the ground floor is The Parlour dining room, two bars, and a library stocked with actual books. Yet with its high ceilings, dim lighting and velvet curtains, the hotel’s public spaces make is easy for almost anyone to disappear.

Doubles from $435 (£315), room only

thenomadhotel.com

Best for power players: Park Hyatt New York

The Park Hyatt New York, located in Midtown across from Carnegie Hall and a block from Central Park, wowed even the most jaded of hotel observers when it opened in 2014, largely because of its gorgeous rooms (designed by Yabu Pushelberg) and its distinctive ribbon facade architecture (envisioned by Christian doe Portzamparc.) Yet this being Park Hyatt, Hyatt’s top-tier luxury brand, the high-end touches don’t stop there. A personal attendant will greet guests at the entrance and whisk them up to the second floor lounge to do the check-in process.

The 210 guest rooms and suites start at a spacious 500sq ft, and have both rainfall showers and deep-soaking tubs as well Rivolta Carmignani linens, the use of iPad minis and Nespresso machines. A treatment room at the hotel’s Spa Nalai will most likely overlook Central Park while views of the Hudson River can be glimpsed from the spa’s reception area. Guests who opt to do laps in the large indoor swimming pool will be treated to music from Carnegie Hall via underwater speakers.

Doubles from $875 (£634), room only

hyatt.com

Best for movie stars: The Greenwich Hotel

In the heart of Tribeca, the Greenwich has a bona fide film star pedigree – one of its owners is none other than Robert De Niro. Yet the hotel’s luxury digs and service would hold up regardless of that Hollywood connection. Each of the 88 rooms and suites are styled differently yet all retain an old-world charm with a hodgepodge of cultural influences from Tibetan silk rugs to Moroccan tiles and “English leather settees.” The beds are Duxiana, the bathtubs are deep-soaking and the minibar snacks, bottled water and soft drinks are complimentary. Beneath the lobby is the exclusive Japanese-Inspired Shibui Spa and sultry indoor pool, while back upstairs, Locanda Verde from popular chef Andrew Carmelllini, serves hearty Italian food at its finest (the sheep’s milk ricotta crostini is a must).

Doubles from $625 (£453), room only

thegreenwichhotel.com

Best for pampering: St. Regis New York

If your only wish is not to lift a finger during your visit to New York, look no further than the St Regis on Fifth Avenue at 55th Street. Every room here comes with the service of a dedicated maitre d’étages – butler to you and me. Guests can also be ferried about town in a Bentley within a 10-block radius of the hotel. Inside the recently renovated rooms are silk wall coverings, crystal chandeliers, fancy writing desks and some state-of-the-art technology such as Bose sound systems and fast internet. Downstairs, a Bloody Mary will be expertly mixed at the King Cole bar, the birthplace of the spicy hangover cure, while a proper meal can be had in the Astor Court, named after NYC’s own John Jacob Astor IV who founded the luxury St. Regis brand more than 100 years ago.

Doubles from $1,020 (£739), room only

stregisnewyork.com

Best for Instagram: Baccarat New York

Nearly every turn at this luxury hotel, inspired by the 253-year-old French crystal brand, is worthy of an Instagram post. At the street-level entrance, across from the Museum of Modern Art, there’s a wall adorned with 1,800 Baccarat “Harcourt” stemware, all lit up by LED lights in the shape of the Baccarat “B.” Upstairs in the Grand Salon, just beyond check-in, is a delicate 64-armed chandelier that hangs over an assortment of high-backed banquettes and mirrored tables, all topped off with some form of Baccarat crystal.

Indeed, there are nearly 15,000 pieces of Baccarat stemware found throughout the hotel, along with other crystal fixtures which usually retail for over $1,000 a piece.

In the rooms, the glamour continues in champagne-tinged colours with luxurious finishes like white marble surfaces and red-lacquer mini bars. But the piece de resistance is the “Champagne” button on the in-room telephone, which allows a guest to have their favourite bubbly delivered to their room.

Doubles from $988 (£716), room only

baccarathotels.com

Best for wellness: The Mark

A revered hotel among the fashion elite (most bold-type names attending the Met Gala stay here), The Mark is an Upper East Side haven, well-known for its subtle luxury. Rooms are tastefully done in a subdued residential style, while its lobby goes for drama, thanks to its signature black and white maze floor pattern.

Now The Mark is putting a luxury twist on wellness. Guests booking the new Wellness package will receive a custom Mark Hotel yoga mat with matching ea.r buds, a facial treatment, a personal training session with Dan Flores or a private yoga class, as well as fresh juice and vegan muffins at check-in from the hotel’s Jean-Georges Vongericten restaurant. After all that working out and heavy wellness concentration, guests can then hire one of The Mark’s chic black and white pedi-cabs to take them sightseeing.

Doubles from $725 (£523), room only

themarkhotel.com

Best for art lovers: The Langham New York

The Langham has occupied a sweet spot on Fifth Avenue near Herald Square and Bryant Park for nearly a decade – with views of the Empire State Building at every turn – but it was just in the last year that the luxury hotel received a brand-new look, putting it on par with the brand’s flagship property in London. The 234 guest rooms are sophisticated yet unfussy, with Italian walnut finishes, marble bathrooms, and floor-to-ceiling windows. The Langham also has a varied selection of room types, some with kitchenettes, making it an ideal choice for families and guests on longer trips. For art lovers, the only room to book is the presidential suite designed by French interior design retailer, Roche Bobois, and adorned with colourful paintings from Alex Katz. Winding down after a long day of hitting the pavement is easy to do here too, thanks to the Langham’s Chuan Body + Soul wellness centre which offers traditional Chinese massages and decadent facials.

Doubles from $545, room only

langhamhotels.com

Best for Wolves of Wall Street: Four Seasons Downtown New York

People have made money moves on Wall Street for decades, but the financial district was suffering from a dearth of luxury hotels – until the arrival of the Four Seasons in 2016. The unapologetically modern hotel designed by architect Robert A.M. Stern has 161 guest rooms, a whopping 28 suites, and an additional 157 residences attached with eye-catching interiors by top-notch interior design firm Yabu Pushelberg. Wolfgang Puck has opened an outpost of his famous CUT Steakhouse and lounge on the ground floor of the hotel with a seductive vibe cultivated by designer Jacques Garcia. The guestrooms are more grounded in style with neutral colors and all the luxury comforts well-heeled guests expect, such as plush bedding, 55” inch television screens, Nespresso machines and gourmet minibars. Should the rat race get to be too much, head to The Spa and consult with one of the three resident healers who can curate mindful experiences for you, from acupuncture work to meditation.

Doubles from $600, room only

fourseasons.com/newyorkdowntown

Best for Central Park and Hudson River views: Mandarin Oriental

Situated in Columbus Circle in the soaring Time Warner Center, the Mandarin Oriental New York is one of the rare hotels in Manhattan that can offer guests either rooms overlooking Central Park or rooms overlooking the Hudson River (park views are slightly more expensive). But no matter where you step in the midtown hotel, jaw-dropping vistas are plentiful. From the moment you check-in on the 35th floor’s Skylobby, to a fine-dining experience at the Asiate restaurant, to drinks at one of the two lounges, views are guaranteed. Even while doing laps in the 75ft-high lap pool or from a treatment table in The Spa.

Doubles from $745, room only

mandarinoriental.com/new-york/manhattan/luxury-hotel

Best for Art Deco decadence: The Carlyle

The Carlyle is not just an Art Deco gem that’s perched on the Upper East side, it’s a New York institution. Originally built in 1930, the 35-storey grande dame retains much of the decor and style of its first decorator, Dorothy Draper, most notably the striking black and white marbled lobby. The elevators still have their own operators (you’ll never have to push a button here) while the guest rooms (69 of them are suites) sport a classic Louis XVI style that’s at once comfortable and elegant. But it’s what happens downstairs that makes The Carlyle so legendary and worthy of its own documentary, “Always at The Carlyle”. The landmark Carlyle Café opened in 1955 and has been host to music greats and celebrities such as Judy Collins, Paul McCartney, Bobby Short, Elaine Stritch, Bill Murray and Alan Cumming. At the Bemelmans Bar, named for artist and author Ludwig Bemelman who patronized the bar frequently, children can indulge in a special Madeline Tea during November and December, which includes a sing-a-long and children’s buffet.

Doubles from $625, room only

rosewoodhotels.com/en/the-carlyle-new-york

Best for giant outdoor terraces: The Chatwal

For the Chatwal, a Luxury Collection Hotel from Starwood Hotels, its luxury claim to fame is its 29 specialty suites (dubbed “The Chatwal Crowns”), which have the largest outdoor terraces in the city. But the starting rooms at this Times Square hotel aren’t too shabby either. All rooms have a sleek Art Deco style that befits the hotel’s prime Theater District location, as well as a butler service. Guests also have access to the Red Door Spa by Elizabeth Arden, which features three treatment rooms, a fitness centre with an indoor saltwater pool and a jacuzzi plunge pool. Dining out is made easy too with the well-regarded Lambs Club from “Iron Chef” Geoffrey Zakarian. And you’ll get a bit of a history lesson with your meal – The Lambs Club was America’s first theatrical society housed in the very building that now is home to The Chatwal. An 18th century fireplace is on display in the restaurant’s main dining room.

Doubles from $495, room only

thechatwalny.com

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

This article has been updated. It was originally published in January 2018.

====== 335 ========

NEW YORK HOTELS: 11 BEST PLACES FOR LOCATION AND STYLE

If there’s a question I get asked more than any other, it is: “Where should I stay in New York?” The challenge with choosing where to splash out for some shut-eye in the city that never sleeps is that there’s no shortage of places to rest your head – especially since each district of this dynamic city has its own distinct personality, and discerning travellers can now stray from Manhattan’s thoroughfares in almost any direction.

I’ve been staying in New York hotels for decades – I grew up on the Upper East Side, and visit twice a year to see family – and although that may make me biased, I think forward-thinking NY hotels are some of the best in the world. Having said that, characterless chains abound, and with NYC being one of the most expensive cities around for accommodation, it’s easy to end up with a dud.

So how to sift the wheat from the chaff? Pick a neighbourhood and decide whether you want to stump up for something fancy or if you’re happy to go back to basics, as long as it’s stylish. Here are my favourite places that combine soul and style, that ditch buttoned-up service, and feel steeped in the spirit of this caffeinated city.

Best for art: The Whitby

Tim and Kit Kemp of Firmdale Hotels were smart to create a Midtown sibling (two blocks north of MoMA) for their popular Crosby Street Hotel. Their London-centric design formula may be familiar – a slick 16-floor, 86-room newbuild filled with characterful design – but as in their other hotels, the interiors are a tonic of colour and textures thanks to Kit’s artful imagination (minimalists steer clear). Specially commissioned witty artworks and larger than-life-sculptures are scattered throughout the building. A wall glows with artist Martha Freud’s votive ceramics, each etched with different New York landmarks. In the bar, the cocktails are first class – try a tangy Whitby Paloma (Ocho Blanco tequila infused with house-made marmalade, fresh pink grapefruit, lime, agave and soda) – while the leafy Orangery terrace is a blissful retreat from the concrete jungle.

Doubles from $695 (£525), room only

firmdalehotels.com​

Best for history: The Inn at Irving Place

This intimate turn-of-the-century brownstone townhouse is a rare breed of old-fashioned retreat in Gramercy Park. Classic chintzes, Tiffany lamps, Victorian curios and the odd four-poster bed make this tiny 12-room hotel a world away from the contemporary cool that dominates Manhattan’s accommodation landscape. Be sure to book a pretty table at their tea salon Lady Mendl’s, to enjoy the refined five-course afternoon spread. Note that children aren’t allowed – it’s for 12 years and upwards.

Doubles from $445 (£330), B&B

innatirving.com​

Best for design: The High Line Hotel

In the heart of Chelsea’s gallery district, this neo-Gothic former seminary with its Intelligentsia coffee truck and bar parked outside is an expert at blending heritage with hip. eBay-sourced Victorian and Edwardian antiques are among the furnishings, perfect for the Instagram generation.

Not to be confused with the much flashier Standard High Line, which is a few blocks south, this is off the tourist trail on Tenth Avenue, a block from the High Line park and close to Chelsea Market’s many foodie delights. Service and facilities come with a light touch; in the absence of a concierge desk, this quirkier spot is suited to seasoned visitors to the city who don’t need their hands holding by the kind of brass badge-flaunting staff in starched suits you get at the big chain hotels.

Doubles from $250 (£180), room only

thehighlinehotel.com​

Best for value: The Marlton

Hotelier Sean MacPherson is a master of creating a seemingly historical hotel that fits into the fabric of a once-seedy district – look no further than his most famous project, the Bowery Hotel, for evidence. For The Marlton’s 2013 opening, he gave this nine-storey, 1900-built building a new lease of life – a world away from its original incarnation as a student dorm.

A block north of Washington Park, the 107 rooms are small but well designed, exemplifying MacPherson’s shtick of crisp quality bed linens, Persian rugs and seemingly vintage yet utterly modern bathrooms. The sociable lobby lounge and bistro at the back make it a favourite with the music and fashion pack, and service is friendly but unashamedly low key.

Doubles from $200 (£150), room only

marltonhotel.com​

Best for families: The Carlyle

Having the top-hatted bellhops at this Beaux Arts brick building (now owned by Rosewood Hotels) open the door to you in the same way they do for high-profile dignitaries is enough to give you a thrill. Find your way to one of its 188 rooms and suites, and you don’t know which VIP or celebrity you might pass; last time I was there, Daphne Guinness was getting a blow-dry in the salon.

The eye-popping cityscape views from the upper floors evoke sweeping opening scenes from the movies. George Gershwin spent time here in the 1930s, and today Woody Allen is known as a weekly regular, having played the clarinet with Café Carlyle’s resident jazz band. Although it recently underwent a refurb, Bemelmans Bar is as atmospheric as ever, with murals hand-painted by – and named after – Ludwig Bemelmans, author of the Madeline children’s books, who painted the bar in return for living here in the 1950s. Because of the link, the hotel is a good bet for well-heeled families, with Madeline-themed packages and good provisions for children.

Doubles from $800 (£600), room only

rosewoodhotels.com​

Best for views: Standard High Line

Hip hotelier André Balazs may have sold his pop culture-loving hotel brand, but its most iconic 18-floor high-riser still straddles the High Line in the heart of the Meatpacking District, an arm’s length from Chelsea’s galleries and the Whitney Museum of American Art. Voyeurs and exhibitionists alike appreciate the wall-to-wall windows in the 338 rooms, which ensure you can see and be seen (remember that, as you reach for your bathrobe).

The Standard Grill steakhouse is another place to see and be seen, as is the street-level German pub, Biergarten, complete with ping pong tables. The rooftop Le Bain bar is as exclusive today as it was when it opened – non-residents have to queue, and though hotel guests aren’t guaranteed admission, they get priority.

Doubles from $295 (£220), room only

standardhotels.com​

Best for hipsters: The Ludlow

Part of the gentrification of the once gritty Lower East Side, the Ludlow opened in 2014 opposite Katz’s Delicatessen. The days of artists living in cheap lofts are long gone, but the hotel lobby evokes a louche 1980s vibe of dive bars and underground recording studios, with a sociable work-rest-and-play space with low-slung leather sofas and giant Marshall speakers.

Bedrooms are bright and breezy, and most have incredible views over the city. A perk of staying in this place is that you can also leapfrog the techpreneurs and art-world hotshots who hang out here to get into the popular ground-floor restaurant, Dirty French, which is always booked up.

Doubles from $195 (£145), room only

ludlowhotel.com​

Best for shopping: The Mercer

If the hotel industry had its own almanack, the birth of this 75-room hotel (Andre Balazs’s creation) in 1998 would be catalogued as having set the blueprint for the boutique trend. Twenty years on, the exposed brick and wooden floorboards in the bedrooms are as on point as ever. Here, near Apple’s HQ, in a 1890 Romanesque Revival mansion, Soho’s media and music wranglers and fashion luvvies still head to chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s Mercer Kitchen restaurant down below to schmooze, booze and make their moves.

Doubles from $600 (£445), room only

mercerhotel.com

Best for eco chic: 1 Hotel Brooklyn Bridge

Barry Sternlicht declares this the best hotel he’s ever created – and as the founder of W Hotels, he knows what he’s talking about. A 25ft living wall of figs and ferns in the lobby, decor made from reclaimed materials, wind-powered electricity and a dedicated triple-filtered drinking water tap in every room confirm that this a seriously eco-friendly hotel – there’s even a Tesla available for local transfers. The bedrooms are a warm and welcoming tableau of upcycled wood and natural, organic fabrics. Be sure to book one which enjoys epic views over the Brooklyn Bridge and East River, but for the full scene in high definition head to the tenth-floor rooftop where there’s also a pool.

Doubles from $350 (£260), room only

1hotels.com​

Best sense of place: The Wythe

A former textile factory, The Wythe’s pine-beamed, brick-walled, cast-iron-columned bedrooms overlook Brooklyn’s (current) beer brewery, making this the most authentic of the crop of hip hotels in this corner of Brooklyn. It’s also the most appealing, thanks to the attention to detail by the owner Andrew Tarlow, the man behind hipster delicatessen, Marlow & Sons. The minibars are packed with superior snacks, and there’s a tip-top brasserie, Reynard.

In the rooms, specially made wallpapers by local artists reference the neighbourhood, while Goldie’s natural soaps are among the hyperlocal amenities. Cocktails should be taken on the Manhattan-view rooftop bar – the hotel is only a couple of blocks from the East River.

Doubles from $300 (£225), room only

wythehotel.com​

Best for New York first-timers: INNSIDE Nomad

Neighbourhood: Chelsea

This hotel is the United States’ first INNSIDE, a sub-brand of Spanish company Melia, which has several outposts across Europe. On the periphery of Broadway, the INNSIDE Nomad is a sleek addition to the streets of Chelsea, which doubles as both a cosy bolthole for tourists and a handy base for business travellers working in Midtown.

Its well-designed and bright guest rooms, fitted with floor-to-ceiling windows, offer superb views of Midtown and the Freedom Tower; while signature restaurant The Wilson does a neat line in fresh seafood dishes. The 24-hour fitness centre and proximity to Midtown will suit business travellers, but it's first-time visitors to New York that the hotel really caters for. The hotel offers the INNSIDE Urban Guide, packed full of New York tips from locals, to make the most of your stay.

Rooms from £132 a night

melia.com

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

This article has been updated. It was originally published in December 2017.

====== 336 ========

HOW TO DO MEXICO'S CELEBRITY BEACH RESORT TULUM ON A BUDGET

“I’m not going to fight you,” the yoga teacher said, rubbing the bruise on his arm that had formed when I aggressively kicked him as he tried to adjust my shoulder stand.

It was the last thing I wanted to hear a yoga teacher say, but I was struggling to unwind after a gruelling 18-month bike ride around the world, from London to China, then onto Canada and south down the USA and across Mexico. Moments after I sighted the Atlantic Ocean for the first time since leaving England in 2017, I tore a muscle in my back – knotted by months spent sleeping in a tent – by over-enthusiastically opening a door.

So I decided to end my epic trip by recovering at the yoga haven near Tulum, a collection of boutique hotels and quasi-ashrams on the Mexican riviera near Cancun, established as a wellness destination by itinerant hippies in the sixties and seventies. It sounded like a banana pancake paradise of scratchy beachside bungalows and vegan burgers. Except cycling around the world meant I was out of touch: Tulum’s beaches have been overtaken by Brooklynites and Californians, making it the last place in the world to visit on a budget.

My hotel, Yoga Shala, offered the best budget package on the playa: a private hut on the exclusive beachside road – the “hotel zone” – with pristine shared bathrooms, two daily yoga classes and a continental breakfast for £40 a night (plus taxes of about £7). It wasn’t the free camping I was used to, but given the average boutique resort room in Tulum costs £100 a night, the average yoga class £17, and a modest breakfast £15, I was un-yogically smug about my daily saving of £109. Slightly further up the road, but still in the chic beachside hotel zone, Bambu Gran Palas offered double beds in single-sex dorms for £16 per night.

A vigorous morning vinyasa the following day meant that my breakfast had worn off by noon, so I set off along the jungle road in search of lunch, with some trepidation. Renowned for prestigious restaurants such as New Yorker favourite Hartwood, Tulum doesn’t do easy-to-find budget food. The night before, I’d gone out with friends from my hotel and ended up at Gitano, a prestigious cocktail bar that charged an eye-watering £15 per margarita.

The staff at Yoga Shala suggested I try the Ice Cream Bar, a backpacker’s staple and the only place on the playa to charge Mexican prices: tacos, generously stuffed and augmented by a bar of unlimited extras like salsa and salad, cost £1 each. For dinner I headed to its sister restaurant, nearby hamburger joint Clan-Destino. Set in the jungle around a small cenote pool, its wooden platforms lit by fairy lights, Clan-Destino was a surprisingly romantic budget option in the heart of hotel zone, charging around £5 for a homemade burger.

The cheapest food in Tulum is to be found 10km away in the town itself, so the next day I set off by bicycle to explore. Most hotels rent bikes for around £3 a day, or you can take a collectivo minibus for around £2.50. I went immediately to Babel Cafe for a breakfast of chilaquiles – deep-fried tortilla strips in salsa, sour cream and cheese, that cost less than half the £10 it would have on the playa, then, after a morning spent souvenir shopping followed my chakras, to vegetarian and wallet-friendly cafe La Hoja Verde.

“The sea is sick,” a local explained the next day as I looked out at the rusty water. Tulum’s famous beaches have this past year been invaded by Sargassum, a kind of noxious seaweed that washed in from the Caribbean and rendered the beaches unpalatable to all but the most tenacious tourists. Prices are lower and pristine loungers at celebrity resorts are open to casual visitors, but the sea is unpleasant to swim in, so instead locals hit gorgeous cenotes, natural sinkholes that time has turned into cool, still cave pools with crystal clear water.

Gran Cenote is the most famous, but I’d been warned it could get chaotic so headed instead for the tranquil twin pools at Dos Ojos (£15 day pass, swimming only). The following day, a friend with a car ran us into the Sian Ka’an Biosphere, a Jurassic Park-esque ride along a bumpy road parallel to the coast. We left the car at the idyllic beachside restaurant and campground Ka’an Tulum, and crossed the road to swim in the mirror-still lagoon opposite. A boat ride around the lagoon – taking in mangroves and manatees – would have cost £75, but I was perfectly happy to practise my savasana for free in its cool water.

“This pose is all about surrender,” my long-suffering yoga teacher said on my final morning, as he gently guided me further into a seated pose called pigeon. I’d stuck to my budget and fought “wellness” at every turn, but for all its reputation as a playground for the wealthy and waiflike, Tulum had worked its magic. The last of the tension wound up in my bicycle-knotted spine give out, and I sank gratefully towards the cenotes.

Travel essentials

British Airways flies to Cancun from £362 return. Tulum is two hours’ drive away.

====== 337 ========

COULD CANNABIS TOURISM BE CANADA’S NEXT BIG HIGH AFTER MARIJUANA LEGALISATION?

You can smell it on the breeze. Something funky, fresh and earthy. After years on the margins, its true believers are going public, and if you listen in bars and cafes from Ottawa to Vancouver to Montreal, you’ll likely hear talk of the new nationwide manifesto. There are idealists and sceptics, and those who still haven’t made up their mind. Who can use it? Where can it be bought? What’s taken it so long? You may be confused yourself, but clear the fug and one cut and dried reality emerges: Canada is about to go gaga over ganja.

On 17 October, Canada became the second nation in the world to legalise the recreational possession, growth and use of cannabis at every level. Overnight, it turned Canada into the world’s largest country with legal marijuana sales, overtaking Uruguay, which launched similar legislation in 2017. And as the first G7 country to legalise cannabis nationwide (for over 18s in the provinces of Alberta and Quebec; over 19 everywhere else), governments around the world are watching.

If you’re curious, partial to the odd spliff, or relish the freedom to do what you like, then welcome to the new-look Canada, where every city has equal claim to be the centre of North America’s growing marijuana tourism industry. Out will go the beaded curtains, lava lamps, Bob Marley soundtrack and haze of apathy. In will come design-led stores fronted by savvy entrepreneurs keen to explain mind-boggling profile mixes (“Would you prefer the nugget-shaped, toffee-scented Acapulco Gold, or the mellow, giggly and tropical Pineapple Express, madam?”). What cannabis smokers have desired for years is a place to legitimise their passion. Now they have a seriously big one.

“There are plenty of dispensaries and cafes that have popped up already,” says Michele Simpson, media relations manager for Tourism Toronto. “Lots of people at the forefront of the cannabis movement live in Toronto, so it’s natural we’ll see change. There are cafes that have even been open for a while – despite police crackdowns and it being illegal until 17 October.”

The feeling is there may be gold in them hills. According to a 2018 cannabis report from Deloitte, overall consumption is expected to rise by up to 35 per cent, while the industry is forecast to generate up to C$7.17bn (£4.18bn) in sales in 2019. The majority of consumers are expected to buy through newly opened brick-and-mortar stores, and that could pave the way for smoker-friendly city breaks. As of late August, several provinces have government-owned cannabis stores in the pipeline, while others such as British Columbia have received 100 private store applications. Quebec plans to open 20 stores, compared to 250 in Alberta and hundreds more in Ontario. In short, the cannabis industry is ready to bloom.

Could it be the next big thing for tourism? Andrew Hiscock, tourism development officer for Legendary Coasts of Eastern Newfoundland, thinks Canada can definitely benefit. “I go for a walk every night in Saint John’s and I can always smell it,” he says. “So the scene is already evident. With the change in legislation, you could say that coming to Newfoundland will be the quickest way to get high if you fly from Europe. It’s only around five hours from London.”

Like it or not – and many people don’t like it – there is supporting evidence it can spark a sustainable industry. Wine and weed tours are booming in California, one of the nine US states where marijuana consumption is legal. In Colorado, where marijuana was legalised for recreational purposes in 2012, the demand for a Rocky Mountain high has soared more than 50 per cent since 2014. In Europe, Barcelona is moving towards the Dutch model, which has long benefited from cannabis tourism. According to research in Amsterdam, 25 to 30 per cent of tourists come for a Dutch cannabis coffee shop experience. No amount of smoke can distort those figures.

Canada – 3,426 miles from Atlantic to Pacific, pushing 2,900 miles to the Arctic – is a different prospect entirely. Especially as a rollout on this scale is a story rooted in uncharted territory.

“There’s a belief in reefer madness in our province, so we’re struggling to figure out how it’s going to look here,” says Jodi Holliday, a travel specialist for Tourism Saskatchewan. “British Columbia is super happy, of course, but you can’t smell people smoking in a park here like you can in Vancouver.”

It’s tempting to see British Columbia’s liberal, green, hipster metropolis as a new Amsterdam. Vancouver already has plenty of coffee shops where cannabis is smoked openly and authorities turn a blind eye. Walk through Gastown, the city’s historic inner-city core, to Hastings Street and you’ll discover a one-of-a-kind ghetto – gritty, intense, transformational – punctuated by reefer cafes such as the Vancity Bull Dog Cafe and New Amsterdam Cafe. The resulting blocks are as far away from the idea of clean-cut, apologetic Canada as could be imagined. If anywhere can benefit, Vancouver can.

Tokyo Smoke is hoping to cash in on the new wave of customers by marrying fancy coffee with top-drawer merchandise. Its flagship is on Vancouver’s Queen Street West, once named by Vogue as the second-hippest district in the world, and it has five spots in Toronto and one in Calgary (new shops in Hamilton, Vancouver, Montreal and Regina coming soon).

“The dispensing stores we’re building have a different layout and will be geared to handling cannabis retail,” says a spokesperson for Tokyo Smoke. “They’ll be focused on cannabis education, which we’ve always held very near and dear to the Tokyo Smoke brand – we want consumers to be able to make informed choices about the purchases they make.” Those who prefer their cannabis with a fresh-baked patisserie may want to check out Toronto’s Cafe 66, located near the CN Tower.

South of capital Ottawa, Canopy Growth in Smith Falls has jumped in at the deep end. It’s on a mission to become the world’s biggest cannabis company, with sites across Canada and Europe, plus a Snoop Dogg-endorsed product line and a visitor centre. That’s housed in a renovated Hershey’s chocolate factory where you can see “grow rooms” and learn everything about the world’s most controversial little plant. Meanwhile, NewLeaf Canada is set to roll-out four high-concept stores in Calgary, while Fire & Flower will ribbon-cut a dozen outlets across Alberta and Saskatchewan.

Just because recreational cannabis is legal doesn’t mean it is safe, says the Canadian Medical Association. In a statement to The Independent, Dr Gigi Osler, president of the association, talked of a “new era” for Canada.

“We know that cannabis has health risks, can impact the developing brain and can impact mental health conditions. Knowing the risks is imperative before anyone consumes cannabis products. Our prescription? Talk to your doctor or your health professional before using cannabis.”

There it all is. A new future stretching out across Canada. In years to come, such places could become the pioneers of global cannabis tourism. Or they could all go up in smoke – a suitably appropriate metaphor for Canada’s new dawn.

Flying high

On 3 October, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s administration announced that domestic air travellers will be able to get legally high. At least in a manner of speaking. As of 17 October, up to 30g of pot will be allowed through security while flying domestically or to US states where marijuana possession is legal.

====== 338 ========

