“The government refuses to create the appropriate legislation to tackle #climatechange. Therefore, the two weeks of rebellion begin now.”

The organisers of Extinction Rebellion said they were protesting against the government’s “complicity” with the fracking and fossil fuel industries, spearheaded by the energy department.

“This planet is being killed, and the culprits have names and addresses!” they tweeted.

The activists hope to bring sections of London to a standstill during the coming days, culminating in a sit-in protest at Parliament Square on Saturday.

====== 441 ========

RARE ‘SHARK NURSERY’ DISCOVERED HIDDEN IN DEEP WATERS WEST OF IRELAND

An enormous shark ”nursery” swarming with the predatory fish and strewn with their eggs has been found in the waters 200 miles off the western Irish coast.

The rare discovery was made by a remotely operated vehicle exploring the region’s cold-water coral reefs at depths of around 750m.

Scientists observed a large school of blackmouth catsharks, a relatively small species found throughout the northeast Atlantic, alongside the more unusual and solitary sailfin roughshark.

The site’s egg cases, or mermaids purses, are seldom seen in such vast numbers, and are thought to belong to the catsharks.

While there were no shark pups swimming around the site, the researchers behind the SeaRover survey that captured the footage want to keep an eye on events there and potentially watch them hatch in the future.

“No pups were obvious at the site and it is believed that the adult sharks might be utilising degraded coral reef and exposed carbonate rock on which to lay their eggs,” said David O’Sullivan, chief scientist at SeaRover.

“A healthy coral reef in the vicinity, may act as a refuge for the juvenile shark pups once they hatch.

“It is anticipated that further study of the site will answer some important scientific questions on the biology and ecology of deep water sharks in Irish waters.”

The new findings were announced at INFOMAR Seabed Mapping Seminar in Kinsale this week, where the marine scientists played highlights taken by the Holland 1 underwater vehicle.

“We are delighted that this discovery has been unveiled at todays’ event, demonstrating the importance of mapping our seabed habitats in understanding and managing our vast and valued ocean resources,” said Mr O’Sullivan.

“Our data and team continue to make significant contributions to harnessing our ocean wealth.”

Informar is an Irish government initiative, and the new discovery will help the country meet its obligations to monitor deep water sharks as part of its marine conservation programme.

The nursery was found within one of six special areas of conservation in Ireland’s enormous ocean territory.

These regions, designated by the EU, are home to an enormous variety of creatures from sea fans to a variety of fish species. Due to their protected status, fishing trawlers are not allowed to operate in these zones.

“Our key objective is to assess, protect and monitor Ireland’s rich offshore marine biodiversity so we can begin to manage our marine resources effectively,” said Dr Yvonne Leahy from the Irish National Parks and Wildlife Service.

“Without knowledge of what lives in our seas we are at risk of never fully understanding and appreciating Ireland’s marine environment.”

====== 442 ========

‘LIVING WALLS’ SHOULD BE INSTALLED TO HELP MOST POLLUTED SCHOOLS, CAMPAIGNERS SAY

Schools in polluted areas should have “living walls” installed to protect children from toxic substances in the air, campaigners have claimed.

Covering walls with plants could prove an effective strategy as they are able to absorb dangerous pollutants from the air, they said.

Two neighbouring west London schools are trying to raise thousands of pounds to help pay for these structures, hoping to protect their children from health problems linked with pollution.

It comes after reports of state school parents crowdfunding for air purifiers to alleviate the dangerous levels of air pollution found throughout London.

Mayor Sadiq Khan has pledged to tackle pollution in the capital, but Laurie Laybourn-Langton, from the UK Health Alliance on Climate Change, said more needs to be done to clean up the air.

"It's important that individuals, as well as the communities, businesses and schools in which they live and work, take measures to understand how air pollution impacts them and act to reduce their exposure, lowering the chance of harm,” he told Sky News. "For schools, measures like living walls can help to improve the quality of air children breathe and therefore improve their health and well-being, enhance the look and feel of their environment and also educate them about air pollution and climate change.

"However the responsibility of cleaning up our air lies with the government, which has the power, resources and duty to respond. Primarily, this requires the government to introduce new laws."

Andrea Carnevali, a parent at St Mary's Catholic School in Chiswick, set up the crowdfunding campaign in an attempt to raise money for both a living wall and air filters.

"We know that this is one of the top 50 schools in London and one of the most polluted schools in the country,” he said.

He added that Mr Khan had pledged to contribute £32,000 if the community can raise the rest of the costs.

The mayor has promised to make air pollution a top priority, particularly in London’s schools.

In June he announced a major new study to test the impact the newly introduced ultra-low emission zone – which aims to keep high-polluting vehicles away from the city – will have on children’s respiratory health.

Headteacher Joan Hart said she had cut outdoor playtime to a minimum after learning about the dangerous levels of pollution in the school’s area, and called for a nationwide programme to tackle the issue.

"Obviously that needs large amounts of funding. We can't do this on our own – we are a small closed community but we are working with our neighbours... and obviously the mayor of London's office as well,” she said.

In recent years, environmental lawyers ClientEarth have won legal challenges against the government three times due to their inadequate efforts to tackle illegal levels of harmful nitrogen dioxide.

A spokesperson for the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs said they had introduced a £3.5bn plan to reduce harmful emissions and published an “ambitious” Clean Air Strategy, but “realise more needs to be done”.

They added: "We are also supporting local communities to deal with this issue through our Air Quality Grant Scheme, which funds projects to tackle air pollution and reduce emissions affecting schools, businesses and residents."

====== 443 ========

NASA SPOTS NEW ICEBERG THREE TIMES SIZE OF MANHATTAN IN ANTARCTICA

Nasa has spotted an enormous new Antarctic iceberg while on a mission to survey the region’s shifting sea ice and glaciers.

It marked the first time anyone had laid eyes on the massive expanse of ice, which the agency said had broken off from Pine Island Glacier in late October and was first observed by satellites.

The US National Ice Centre estimates the iceberg, dubbed B-46, was 66 square nautical miles (87 square miles) in size, around three times the size of Manhattan.

However, satellite images have revealed that since it was first observed, the mass has already begun to break up into smaller chunks.

The iceberg’s discovery comes shortly after Nasa released images of two separate “tabular icebergs” – ones with completely rectangular shapes and smooth edges.

Ice shelves regularly “calve” icebergs, but scientists are monitoring this activity closely to determine whether the frequency of such events is changing.

As part of Nasa’s Operation IceBridge, a fleet of research aircraft fly across the polar regions to measure the impact that climate is having on the ice.

The new iceberg was spotted by the crew on board one of the planes.

Based on Nasa’s information, the Pine Island Glacier now appears to be calving with increased regularity. Icebergs broke off in 2013, 2015, 2017, and now this year, while prior to this such major events only took place around once every six years.

The dynamics of the region has major ramifications for the rest of the world, as Pine Island and the nearby Thwaites Glacier by themselves are contributing 1mm per decade of global sea level rise.

Past research by the British Antarctic Survey concluded that the thinning of the Pine Island Glacier had probably “reached a point of no return”.

====== 444 ========

CAMPAIGNERS CALL FOR 'CRUEL, BARREN' CAGES TO BE BANNED FOR OVER 350 MILLION FARM ANIMALS IN EUROPE

An ambitious campaign has been launched to ban animal cages on all farms across Europe, days after California passed a similar “historic” measure.

The move would affect at least 350 million hens, pigs, calves, rabbits and ducks in Europe that are held in “cruel” cages that activists say at worst are filthy and barren and at best restrict animals’ natural roaming instincts.

Farmers in California opposed the plan, warning it would force up prices of food from farmed animals, ranging from eggs to ham.

But voters in the US state last week passed a measure obliging farms to give more space to certain animals and banning cages for egg-laying hens.

By 2022, female pigs used for breeding must by law have at least 24 sq ft of space each, and hens must have cage-free housing offering at least a square foot of space each.

Products from farms where the requirements are not met will not be allowed on sale in California, even if the farms are outside the state. Campaigners hailed the “historic step forward” for animal welfare.

The drive for similar legislation across Europe is being organised by more than 130 charities and groups, who say most EU citizens oppose confining animals to cramped cages.

They are using a European Citizens’ Initiative mechanism, which allows people to suggest specific legal changes to EU institutions if a million signatures are gathered within a year.

If that number of signatures is reached, the commission must consider taking action.

British charity Compassion in World Farming, which is lobbying the British, Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish agriculture ministers, said: “Cages inflict immense misery on enormous numbers of farm animals every year. They are cruel and unnecessary, as higher-welfare cage-free systems are viable. This cannot be the future of British farming.

“In many cases animals never see an open field or straw-covered floor. They may spend their whole life trapped, perhaps unable to turn around. Yet most people have no idea that animals are caged to produce cheap food.”

The activists plan to launch a series of roadshows to show the public “the hidden cruelty” of cages and to win support.

They say that in Britain alone, 16 million animals are kept in cages. However, at 37 per cent of hens and 53 per cent of sows, the UK is not the worst offender.

Figures from CiWF show the worst is Malta, where all sows, 97 per cent of hens and 96 per cent of meat rabbits are reared in cages.

Portugal, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Spain also all keep high proportions in cages.

The "End the Cage Age" campaign has just been launched in the Czech Republic, where all sows and 84 per cent of hens are caged. But poultry industry chiefs there have warned a cage ban would significantly drive up the cost of eggs and animal agriculture companies could go out of business.

In the UK, the new Agriculture Bill sets out how farmers will be paid to be environmentally friendly, taking measures such as curbing flooding and improving access to the countryside after Brexit, and environment secretary Michael Gove will face pressure to outlaw cages in future legislation.

====== 445 ========

KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE: JUDGE HALTS CONSTRUCTION AND SAYS TRUMP ADMINISTRATION 'SIMPLY DISCARDED' ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT

A federal judge has ordered that construction on the Keystone XL pipeline should be halted immediately - earning a rebuke from Donald Trump over a project that had been key to his economic programme.

The judge ruled that the government did not do the necessary environmental assessment before beginning construction. US District Court Judge Brian Morris wrote that a State Department environmental analysis of Keystone XL “fell short of a 'hard look'” at the cumulative effects of greenhouse gas emissions and the impact on Native American land resources.

The Keystone XL pipeline has been a matter of contention between the Trump administration and environmental groups, resulting in protests around the country. In 2016, protests over the pipeline even became a national movement among Native Americans.

Now, Judge Morris in Montana has declared that the project violates the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), and the Endangered Species Act (“ESA”). Former analyses of the impact of the pipeline on the environment and wildlife had been “simply discarded,” the judge wrote. According to federal law, scientific analyses of environmental impact must be considered when construction projects like the pipeline occur.

Mr Trump approved the pipeline shortly after taking office and he called the decision by Judge Morris “a political decision" and a "disgrace".

The function of the 1,200-mile Keystone XL pipeline is to bring crude oil from Alberta, Canada to the United States. President Trump argued that the project would bring jobs to Americans and then appointed Scott Pruitt, a supporter of the pipeline, to run the Environmental Protection Agency before Mr Pruitt later left his post.

The plaintiffs in the lawsuit were the Indigenous Environmental Network, North Coast River Alliance, and North Plains Resource Council. The defendants were the United States Department of State et al, Transcanada Keystone Pipeline, and Transcanada corporation. Opponents to the pipeline include organisations concerned over climate change, land degradation, and the digging up of private land, including that which belongs to Native Americans.

“The Trump administration tried to force this dirty pipeline project on the American people, but they can't ignore the threats it would pose to our clean water, our climate, and our communities,” said the Sierra Club.

The ruling does not mean that the Keystone XL Pipeline is cancelled. It means that the Trump administration needs to re-evaluate the environmental impact and ensure that they are following regulations before they proceed.

The State Department is reviewing the judge's order and made no comment due to ongoing litigation.

====== 446 ========

CLIMATE CHANGE ‘FORCING PREDATORS TO MOVE INTO ARCTIC NESTING GROUNDS’, PUSHING ENDANGERED SHOREBIRD SPECIES TOWARDS EXTINCTION

Shore-dwelling birds like plovers and sandpipers are under threat as global warming leaves their nests vulnerable to thieving predators hunting for eggs.

Many shorebirds migrate from southern regions to the Arctic as a safe haven to lay eggs and raise their young away from predators such as foxes.

However, a new study has shown that rates of egg theft in the Arctic have increased threefold in the last 70 years as polar temperatures rise and predators move north.

Over the same period, nest predation doubled in northern regions across Europe and North America.

"The Arctic, with recently elevated rates of nest predation, is no longer a safe harbour for breeding birds,” said doctoral student Vojtech Kubelka, who led the study.

Past research has shown that adult shorebird survival has also decreased in recent years as their habitats are destroyed or they are targeted by hunters.

The combined effect of fewer chicks hatching and more adults being killed has had a devastating effect on population numbers, with some species now critically endangered.

Besides predators moving into new northern territories, the researchers suggested that their diets may be shifting to include more eggs as regular food sources such as lemmings dry up.

Numbers of these small polar rodents have crashed in recent years as rising temperatures makes their snowy habitat less reliable.

"The Earth is a fragile planet with complex ecosystems, thus changes in predator-prey interactions can lead to cascading effects through the food web with detrimental consequences for many organisms thousands of kilometres away,” said Professor Tamas Szekely, one of the study’s authors from the University of Bath.

Rates of nest predation are known to be higher in tropical regions, which explains why so many birds are willing to migrate so far north to find safe breeding grounds.

To understand changes in nest predation over the decades, Mr Kubelka and his team analysed a massive dataset including over 38,000 individual shorebird nests from 237 populations.

The results were published in the journal Science.

Though they acknowledged that the mechanisms behind the egg loss they measured were likely complex, there was a particularly sharp increase in nest predation in the last 20 years, and they identified climate change as a likely culprit.

Discovering this devastating effect was, according to Professor Szekely, “alarming”.

"This could be the last nail in the coffin for critically endangered species such as the spoonbill sandpiper,” he said.

====== 447 ========

GREAT BARRIER REEF: IS THE EARTH'S BIGGEST LIVING THING REALLY DYING?

In recent years, the Great Barrier Reef has grabbed headlines after several people claimed the natural wonder to be dead.

In a 2016 article “Obituary: Great Barrier Reef (25 Million BC- 2016)” , writer Rowan Jacobsen pronounced the jewel of the Australian coastline dead after a long illness.

“With such extraordinary diversity of life and landscape, it provided some of the most thrilling marine adventures on earth to humans who visited. Its otherworldly colours and patterns will be sorely missed,” writes Jacobsen.

“No one knows if a serious effort at the time could have saved the reef, but it is clear that such no effort was made,” writes Jacobsen.

Writer Rich Landers of The Spokesman-Review also announced that scientists had pronounced the Great Barrier Reef dead.

However, both claims could be misleading: there is a huge difference between ‘dead’ and ‘dying’.

The Reef is the world’s largest natural living structure. Covering over 1,429 miles of the Queensland coast, the reef stretches from the north tip of Cape York Peninsula down to the south city of Bundaberg.

It is home to over a thousand different types of marine life: 1400 types of hard coral, one third of the world’s soft coral, 1,625 species of fish, over 3000 species of molluscs, 630 types of starfish/sea urchins, 14 species of sea snakes, 215 types of birds, 133 different types of sharks and rays, 30 species of whales and dolphins, six out of seven species of marine turtles, and many species still undiscovered.

Due to the colourful marine life, the Reef is also one of the most popular tourist sites for scuba divers visiting Australia.

“The Reef supports a huge variety of marine biodiversity and an estimated 69,000 Australian jobs, and provides $7 billion to the Australian economy every year,” reads a report from the Australian Climate Council.

With the massive variety of aquatic life both making up and living in the Reef, it is hard to image something so great having such a sudden death.

In fact, the damage is not sudden, but is a result of ongoing harm inflicted on the Reef by multiple factors.

And the Great Barrier Reef is not dead, but it is dying.

According to the Great Barrier Reef Foundation, the human influence has caused a 50% decline in the overall coral bed from 1985 to 2012.

“The cumulative effect of these threats weakens the Reef’s resilience, affecting its ability to recover from serious disturbances predicted to become more frequent in the future,” writes the foundation.

Natural occurrences, such as Cyclone Debbie on 28 March 2017, have also added to the rising damage to the Reef causing breaking and uplifting of the coral.

However, these do not account for the intense coral bleaching events that have occurred in recent years.

The National Ocean Service defines coral bleaching as the expelling of the symbiotic algae living in the coral’s tissue, resulting in the coral turning completely white.

Coral bleaching can occur when the typical summer temperature of local waters increases an exceed maxima by 1°C.

C Mark Eakin of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the United States explains, “Climate has warmed rapidly in the past years, first making El Ninos dangerous for the corals, and now we’re seeing the emergence of the bleaching in every hot summer.”

The ocean temperature has increased by about 1 degree Celsius since the 1800s.

In 2016, an aerial and underwater survey conducted by the Australian Climate Council revealed that of the 911 reefs surveyed, 81% of the northern sector, 33% of the central sector and 1% of the southern sector experienced severe bleaching.

“The current, ongoing mass bleaching event is the worst in the Great Barrier Reef’s history,” reads the report.

In 2017, the Australian Climate Council released a second report following the Reef’s second wave of mass coral bleaching. It was the first time in history the Reef experienced two consecutive bleaching occurrences.

The council concluded that the warming oceans are a result of the rising temperatures caused by the burning of coal, oil and gas.

“Human activities, primarily the emission of greenhouse gases from the combustion of fossil fuels, are driving climate change,” states the council. “Climate change is the greatest threat to the Great Barrier Reef.”

The back-to-back bleaching events in 2016 and 2017 has sent the Reef in a downward decline leaving parts of the coral beds completely unsalvageable.

According to a briefing released by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the events in 2016 and 2017 increased the percentage of dead coral from 22% to 29% with an anticipated morality rate of 19%.

UNESCO has criticised the Australian Government for not taking greater steps to preserve the Reef since it was placed on their watch list in 2015.

As a result, the Australian Government adopted the Reef 2015 Plan, a $100 million project which looked to improve the water quality on the Reef.

However, in 2017, the government declared the project impossible and leaving the plan to be reviewed sometime in 2018.

“Meanwhile, the Australian Government continues to heavily subsidies the fossil fuel industry and is considering a loan of up to $1 billion to facilitate the construction of the Carmichael coal megamine,” writes UNESCO.

The Reef’s only chance for salvation sits with the Australian Government.

Government funding for new fossil fuel mining must come to a halt, the Reef 2050 Plan needs to be rewritten, and the country should adopt a climate change policy that would reduce the emission levels by 40-60% followed by 60-80%. Otherwise, the health of the Reef will continue to decline until it eventually stops dying and is officially declared dead.

====== 448 ========

ARE ELECTRIC CARS A COMPLETELY GREEN ANSWER FOR DEALING WITH GLOBAL POLLUTION?

The United Kingdom government announced new diesel and petrol vehicles will be banned within the UK from 2040 as a means of tackling air pollution.

Electric cars are regarded as a cleaner alternative with roughly 266 million vehicles expected to be on the road by 2040 according to petroleum organisation OPEC.

France also set 2040 as the year in which petrol and diesel cars will be completely banned.

Despite these government announcements, how environmentally-friendly are electric cars, and are they a viable solution to combat global pollution?

1 Why electric cars are regarded as green?

Electric cars are expected to emit half the CO2 emissions of a diesel car by 2030 according to Yoann le Petit, of the Transport and Environment Think Tank.

The release of nitrogen dioxide from diesel exhausts is damaging the entire atmosphere as well as being harmful to human health.

Copenhagen is expected to have no diesel cars from as early as 2019.

Major of the city, Frank Jensen, said: ‘‘It is not a human right to pollute the air for others. That’s why diesel cars must be phased out.’’

Air pollution, often associated with diesel cars, is estimated to cause roughly 40,000 deaths a year in the UK according to BBC environment analyst, Roger Harrabin.

2 How electric cars will operate

Often labelled as zero emission vehicles, electric cars appear to be the future of transport. They will be powered by Lithium-ion batteries, which first went on sale 26 years ago as part of Sony’s CCD-TRI camcorder before spreading rapidly to commodities such as phones, computers and even e-cigarettes.

Simon Moores, of Benchmark Mineral Intelligence, believes Lithium is easy to find, and said there is at least 210 million tonnes of it with current annual production at 180,000 tonnes.

Lithium is the lightest metal and offers the greatest electrochemical potential, causing high power and energy density, as stated by Dominic Notter, of the Technology and Society Laboratory in Switzerland.

3 Disposing batteries

Despite being advocated as environmentally-friendly, Li-ion batteries may actually cause environmental issues when produced for electric cars.

Waste disposal would be a particularly key problem.

Ajay Kochhar, CEO of Canadian battery recycling organisation, Li-cycle, believes the transition to electric vehicles could leave roughly 11m tonnes of used Li-ion batteries needing recycling from this year until 2030.

According to the environmental network, Friends of the Earth Europe, the total number of Li-ion batteries collected in the EU during 2010 was approximately equivalent to 1,289 tonnes along with 297 tonnes of lithium primary batteries.

Recycling such vast quantities of lithium is not easy since it is a highly reactive and flammable material. As a result, the toxic metal can often be dumped in landfill or incinerated, creating pollution problems in itself.

4 Production of Lithium

The initial process of producing lithium requires pumping brine from underground using diesel fuel, while metals within the battery management system such as aluminium require a high energy demand.

Amrit Chandan, a chemical engineer at Acelron said: ‘‘It takes so much energy to extract these materials from the ground. If we don’t re-use them we could be making our environmental problems worse.’’

5 Battery size

As it stands, the general trend is leaning towards larger Li-ion batteries with longer ranges which are unnecessarily high according to Peter Mock, managing director for Europe at the International Council on Clean Transportation.

‘‘For 90 per cent of the vehicles it just doesn’t make sense to have such a big battery’’, said Mr Mock.

The batteries within electric cars have been estimated as doubling from 20kwh to 40kwh by 2025 as predicted by UK investment bank and research service, Liberum.

Bigger batteries will increase the landfill issue as well as requiring greater levels of cooling to prevent such batteries from over-heating. Such processes prevent the batteries from igniting as they contain flammable liquid electrolytes.

For some, the size of the batteries means even landfilling is not a solution.

Marc Grynberg, chief executive of Umicore, a Belgian materials technology company, said: ‘‘Given their sheer size, batteries cannot be stored at home and landfilling is not an option.’’

6 Cobalt

As a component of the Li-ion batteries, 8000 to 9000 tonnes of cobalt is believed to be used every year.

This is problematic for those who view the electric car as a clean new technology according to Robert Baylis, managing director of Roskill Information Services, a London research and consultancy service dealing with international metals and minerals.

Mr Baylis said: ‘‘Two-thirds of the mined production of cobalt is from the Democratic Republic of Congo, which has an issue with child labour, and environmental standards aren’t good.

‘‘It is then shipped to China, where it is processed, often beyond the sight of environmentalists.’’

As a result, chemical companies such as LG Chem announced they are actively attempting to reduce the cobalt component of their battery cells.

Samsung SDI also announced plans to reduce the amount of cobalt per battery unit to roughly half the total in the current industry.

7 Is the 2040 ban even significant?

The ban of diesel cars by 2040 sounds good for environmentalists, but such a decision needs to be urgent as explained by Gareth Redmond-King, head of climate and energy policy at environment group WWF.

‘‘The government’s been failing to comply with this law for seven years and then it is setting itself a target so far in the future.’’

This leaves the question as to whether electric cars can really tackle the ever-growing problem of pollution with clearly-visible results, or perhaps the implementation is coming too late to fully combat the issue.

====== 449 ========

NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IN CUMBRIA IN DOUBT AFTER TOSHIBA PULL OUT

Toshiba has announced it is pulling out of the construction of a nuclear power station in Cumbria, putting the overall future of any project going ahead at the site in doubt.

The Moorside plant was projected to create up to 21,000 jobs over its lifetime, and produce nearly 7 per cent of the country's future electricity requirements.

However, due to a lack of support the Japanese firm said it would wind up its UK nuclear arm completely, taking a 15bn Japanese yen (£100.5m) hit after closing its NuGeneration subsidiary.

In a statement the company said it was taking the “economically rational decision” after failing to find a potential buyer during an 18-month negotiation period.

The decision puts a massive dent in the UK’s nuclear ambitions, but has been welcomed by green energy experts as an opportunity to move towards “cheaper and easier-to-build renewables”.

Greenpeace UK executive director John Sauven said: “The end of the Moorside plan represents a failure of the government’s nuclear gamble.

“Their flawed approach to making our economy low carbon has dashed the hopes of prospective workers and businesses in Cumbria that should have been centred around renewable technologies.”

The Moorside site in Cumbria remains a site designated by the government for a new nuclear plant, and it now falls to them and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority to determine its future.

Workers' unions have attacked the government for not intervening to ensure the plant’s construction went ahead.

They said the region was home to a wealth of nuclear experience, and thousands of jobs would be on the line in North West England if the Moorside project was not secured.

Justin Bowden, national officer of the GMB union, said a new nuclear power station in west Cumbria “remains vital for the UK’s future energy security and requires urgent action”.

“Government has ultimate responsibility for ensuring a secure and stable supply of energy throughout the UK. The truth is that ministers have dithered and delayed for far too long. We now need urgent action.”

Sue Ferns, senior deputy general secretary of Prospect union, called the decision “devastating”.

“Government has ultimate responsibility for ensuring a secure and stable supply of energy throughout the UK,” she said.

“The truth is that ministers have dithered and delayed for far too long. We now need urgent action.

“Our analysis shows that if the Government were to take a 50 per cent stake then there would be a net benefit to the public purse, so there really is no excuse not to.”

Shadow business secretary Rebecca Long-Bailey said Labour supports Moorside as they see nuclear as a key part of the UK’s energy mix, but said the government should have stepped in to support it.

A Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy spokesman said Toshiba’s withdrawal was “entirely a commercial decision”.

“Nuclear has an important role to play as part of the UK’s diverse energy mix as we transition to a low-carbon economy, but in each case projects must provide value for money for consumers and taxpayers,” they said.

“This government remains committed to new nuclear through the Industrial Strategy Nuclear Sector Deal as well as consenting the first new nuclear power station in a generation at Hinkley Point C.”

Critics of nuclear power said the government should see the new circumstances as an opportunity to move away from nuclear to cheaper technologies such as wind and solar power.

“Shifting away from expensive, complicated technology towards cheaper and easier-to-build renewables gives the UK the opportunity to build an electricity system that will keep bills for homes and businesses down for years to come,” said Dr Jonathan Marshall, head of analysis at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit.

“Cancelling Moorside does leave a gap in the UK’s decarbonisation plans, but one that is more likely to be filled with the technologies of the future rather than the past.”

Additional reporting by PA.

====== 450 ========

SWATHES OF AMAZONIAN RAINFOREST DYING AS TREES FAIL TO KEEP UP WITH CLIMATE CHANGE

Increased temperatures and droughts are taking their toll on the Amazon as trees are unable to adapt to the changing climate, a study has found.

Researchers examining decades of growth in parts of the rainforest found that global warming was linked to a changing tree composition – but as some tree species died, not enough were springing up to replace them.

As global temperatures rise, there will inevitably some “losers” that are not suited to the new conditions, but there will also be “winners”.

Species that are better adapted to living in dry conditions may do better, for example, while moisture loving trees are likely to vanish.

Based on their analysis, team leader Dr Adriane Esquivel Muelbert said the Amazon’s response is “lagging behind the rate of climate change”.

“The data showed us that the droughts that hit the Amazon basin in the last decades had serious consequences for the make-up of the forest, with higher mortality in tree species most vulnerable to droughts and not enough compensatory growth in species better equipped to survive drier conditions."

The Amazon rainforest is one of the most important ecosystems on the planet, accounting for 45 per cent of all tropical forests and storing 40 per cent of all carbon held in land vegetation.

Deforestation is posing a significant threat to the region as trees are cleared to make way for cattle farms and crops like soy.

However, even undisturbed patches of forest away from human influence are threatened by climate change, and the Amazon Forest Inventory Network has been set up to map the rainforest’s response to a warmer world.

The network consists of more than 100 plots from across the region that are subject to long-term monitoring.

Using data going back to the 1980s, Dr Muelbert’s team found that bigger trees had been the climate winners, benefiting from increased levels of CO2 in the atmosphere that allowed them to grown faster.

They also found that “pioneer trees” that spring up quickly were also benefiting from a boost in CO2.

But with deforestation thought to be adding to the intensity of the droughts that are causing significant dieback, the researchers said there findings indicated a serious need to protect sections of rainforest that remain intact.

"The impact of climate change on forest communities has important consequences for rainforest biodiversity,” said Dr Kyle Dexter, an ecologist at the University of Edinburgh who co-authored the study.

“The species most vulnerable to droughts are doubly at risk, as they are typically the ones restricted to fewer locations in the heart of the Amazon, which make them more likely to be extinct if this process continues.”

These findings were published in the journal Global Change Biology.

====== 451 ========

EU BACKTRACKS ON TOTAL IVORY BAN DESPITE MASSIVE PRESSURE FROM CAMPAIGNERS AND MEPS

Politicians and campaigners have expressed dismay that the European Union (EU) appears to be holding back on further restrictions on the continent's ivory trade, despite enormous global pressure.

Europe is the largest domestic market for ivory products in the world and research has demonstrated that illegally poached ivory often makes its way into the legal market.

In 2017, the European Commission banned the export of raw ivory, but many still think the only way to make a dent in demand for products made of the material is to ban the domestic trade entirely.

China, the US and the UK have already moved to halt such trade in an effort to make elephants a less lucrative target for poachers and to stamp out the corruption and organised crime the trade supports.

Despite the backing of African leaders and scores of European politicians, a new report outlining efforts to curb wildlife trafficking in Europe has removed a pledge to further restrict the trade.

The report notes that a public consultation at the end of 2017 saw “a large majority” of the 90,000 respondents calling for tighter EU rules on the ivory trade.

In a draft version leaked in July, the authors then went on to write: “As a follow-up to this consultation, the commission intends to further restrict ivory trade in and from the EU. The commission intends to discuss the content of such restrictions with their member states and stakeholders in the coming months"

However, in the version released at the end of October, this section of text was missing.

Instead, the final report notes that “other respondents opposed further limits on elephant ivory trade to and from the EU, especially for antiques”.

Besides the consultation respondents calling for tougher rules, 32 African nations have joined together in calling for an EU-wide ban, including a complete shutdown of the domestic market.

Further support has come from over 100 MEPs who wrote to the environment commissioner Karmenu Vella in July urging a total ban.

Responding to the discrepancy between different versions of the report, chair of interest group MEPs for Wildlife, Catherine Bearder said: "The EU is a major transit point for illegal wildlife products being shipped to the Far East and other global destinations. Elephants are being pushed to the brink of extinction and for what? For useless trinkets the world doesn't need.

"The European Parliament, the citizens of Europe and thirty-two African states want a complete ban on ivory sales. What's stopping the commission?"

Ms Bearder cited the recent report from Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) that recorded shocking average declines of 60 per cent in populations of animals across the world.

She said the EU’s past success in banning seal products in 2009 should be imitated with a ban on elephant products.

Eleonora Panella, campaigns officer at the International Fund for Animal Welfare said: “It is indeed disappointing to hear that the European Commission removed such a relevant statement. The public consultation that was held in December 2017 resulted in an overwhelming majority of citizens asking the EU to close their domestic markets. Member states are also moving towards that direction, and large online technology companies such as eBay have already taken decisive action.”

In May, environmental secretary Michael Gove announced “one of the world’s toughest bans on ivory sales” for the UK, covering the sale of ivory items of all ages, not just those produced after a certain date.

Ms Panella added: “We still hope that the European Commission will communicate soon that they are considering further restrictions.”

A recent project conducted by campaigners from Avaaz together with researchers from the University of Oxford analysed 100 ivory items purchased in 10 EU countries, and found that many were made from material poached since global bans on the ivory trade had come into effect.

Bert Wander, campaign director at Avaaz, said: “Three months ago, we delivered smoking-gun evidence that illegal ivory from recently killed elephants is being traded in Europe, and the EU commission promised action to protect these magnificent giants.

“Millions of people across Europe and the world are expecting them to keep that promise and shut down this deadly trade.”

A European Commission spokesman said they were unable to comment on the contents of leaked reports, and noted that the EU had already taken substantial action to tackle ivory poaching.

"Fighting international ivory trafficking is a battle that we cannot afford to lose. The commission will continue to fight any kind of illegal trading, including the fraud of passing off recent ivory as antique," he said.

"Addressing elephant poaching and ivory trafficking is a cornerstone of the EU action against wildlife trafficking and the EU has recently adopted numerous initiatives to this end."

====== 452 ========

HOW SATELLITES COULD HELP FARMERS DEAL WITH THE RISK OF DROUGHT

While drought policy raises many complex emotional, political and policy issues, it can be useful to think of it as an insurance problem: how can we best help farmers manage climate risk?

Drought insurance has been a long-standing goal and it’s easy to understand why. If viable, drought insurance markets could help farmers manage climate risk without the costs and potential side effects of government drought support.

Unfortunately, technical problems have hampered the development of drought insurance markets in Australia to date. However, there is hope that with improvements in technology and data these problems could be solved, paving the way for a new generation of weather-based insurance products.

The missing market for drought insurance

Australia has well-functioning but limited markets for crop insurance. If hail or fire destroys a paddock, for example, an insured farmer will receive a payout for the value of the crop.

But multi-peril crop insurance – which covers a wide range of adverse events including drought – has failed to thrive in the country. The international uptake has been similarly uninspiring.

Many reviews have attributed these failures to information and participation problems.

Firstly, only the riskiest or most drought-prone farms may sign up for insurance (the adverse selection problem). Secondly, farms with insurance may put less effort into preparing for and managing drought (the moral hazard problem). Both of these problems make insurance more costly to provide, resulting in higher premiums and lower uptake.

While these problems apply to all forms of insurance, they are particularly acute in agriculture, given the effects of drought will vary widely depending on farm-management decisions, as well as detailed – and difficult to observe – farm characteristics such as quality of land and livestock.

Subsidies are not the answer

Unfortunately, while tax incentives and other subsidies may increase uptake, there is no coherent case for providing higher than normal tax deductibility. In fact, such subsidies could actually cause economic harm.

Insurance premiums provide important signals to farmers, promoting preparedness and adaptation. This includes promoting careful crop-planting decisions when drought risk is high. The inglorious record of farm crop insurance in the United States shows how things can go very wrong when insurance is subsidised.

It is not surprising that previous reviews have consistently recommended against insurance subsidies, while just last year the New South Wales government rejected a similar proposal.

Index-based insurance could be a way forward

One alternative, which has been receiving increased attention in recent years, is index-based insurance. Here payouts are based on weather data rather than an assessment of actual farm damages. For example, a farmer might receive a payout if rainfall falls below an agreed threshold.

Index-based products are largely immune to the information problems that plague standard insurance: insurers don’t need to spend time and money assessing each application, or monitoring farmers’ behaviour. Instead, insurers must solve the technical problem of designing an accurate index.

This index needs to be sensitive to the complex effects of weather on farms. The effect of a drought depends on many things that affect each other: rainfall, its timing, temperature, and many other factors. If these factors are not taken into account, drought insurance runs into a “basis risk” problem: payouts don’t align with the climate risks faced by individual farms.

This basis risk problem is largely why index-based weather insurance products have struggled in Australia to date.

Drought insurance could be public or private

In recent years, governments have focused on promoting private drought insurance markets. However, public schemes are also possible and exist in many other countries.

A well-designed public drought insurance scheme – with premiums to cover costs – might have some advantages over private insurance. For example, governments may be better placed to absorb losses in years of severe widespread drought (although re-insurance markets might help the private sector manage such risks).

However, public drought insurance schemes could, depending on their design, reduce demand for private insurance. This problem also extends to other forms of government drought relief: farmers may be less likely to pay for insurance if they suspect ad hoc drought assistance will be available.

Better data is essential

Ultimately, public and private insurance schemes face similar technical challenges. Solving these technical issues requires detailed data both on weather and farm outcomes.

Numerous reviews have cited data limitations as a key constraint on the Australian farm insurance sector. A recent review by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences highlighted the patchy and fragmented nature of existing government and industry agricultural data.

There is a good case for government to support the supply of this data, in a similar way to how the National Flood Risk Information Project was established following the Australian 2011 floods. Investments in data are likely to have many applications beyond insurance, including the development of improved tools to support farm decision-making.

While drought insurance schemes have had mixed success to date, there remains hope. The emergence of “big data” collected from satellites and internet-enabled devices promises to revolutionise both farm production and risk management. In time, smart products underpinned by better data might finally help us solve the challenge of drought policy.

Neal Hughes is a senior economist at the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences (ABARES). This article originally appeared on The Conversation (theconversation.com)

====== 453 ========

EXTRA 700,000 TONS OF PLASTIC COULD BE THROWN AWAY WHILE GOVERNMENT DELAYS NEW TAX, LABOUR CLAIMS

An additional 700,000 tons of plastic will be thrown away while the government delays its proposed tax on plastic packaging, according to Labour analysis.

The next four years will also see British people throw away at least 100,000 tons of coffee cups, a figure that critics argue could be slashed with the introduction of a 25p charge on beverages.

Chancellor Philip Hammond came under fire for failing to introduce the highly anticipated “latte levy” in the autumn Budget.

While he did announce a new tax on the manufacture and import of plastic packaging that contains less than 30 per cent recycled plastic, it is not set to come into force until 2022.

The shadow environment secretary has been joined by campaigners in criticising the government for “dithering” on measures to curb plastic pollution as it floods into marine and land ecosystems, and finds its way into human bodies.

Though the new tax is intended to reduce dependence on plastics that are very difficult or impossible to recycle such as black food trays, campaigners say measures must be far tougher and have called for total bans on certain plastics.

Sue Hayman, Labour’s shadow environment secretary, said: “It’s scandalous that over 700,000 tons of additional plastic waste will devastate our environment while the Tories dither and delay over even the most basic of measures.

“Yet again the government is showing a shocking disregard for the environment at a time when the urgency and seriousness of the situation has never been clearer.”

Environmental groups have pointed to the government’s successful implementation of a charge on plastic bags, which has slashed use by 85 per cent, and urged them to imitate it for other problem items.

“The plastic bag charge showed us that tough action on plastics works, and the public supports it. The same logic should apply to non-recyclable disposable coffee cups,” said Paul Morozzo, plastics campaigner at Greenpeace.

“Problem plastics must be banned by 2019, and the government must set a tough timetable for year on year reductions in plastic waste.”

Friends of the Earth plastic campaigner Julian Kirby said: “The chancellor’s decision to delay a plastic tax and shelve plans for a ‘latte levy’ will pour more plastic waste into our environment – as well as blowing a huge hole in the government’s green credentials.”

The Independent’s Cut the Cup Waste campaign pushed for measures to curb the number of plastic-lined coffee cups being thrown away, and revealed the public backed such action.

Some 2.5 billion cups are disposed of every year, but they are rarely recycled due to the lack of infrastructure to transport them to appropriate facilities that can separate the paper base from its plastic lining.

While ministers signalled they were seriously considering a charge to discourage people from using the cups in the manner of plastic bags, the government ultimately went cold on the idea.

Tony Juniper, executive director of advocacy and campaigns at WWF, said there was no time to wait for effective plastic taxes to be introduced.

“Already 90 per cent of seabirds have plastic in their stomachs and a wide range of marine wildlife faces a mounting threat,” he said.

“This is why we are so disappointed that the budget didn’t have more concrete actions to tackle this terrible problem.”

In response, a government spokesperson said: “Our new packaging tax is world-leading and will incentivise producers of single-use plastic to use more recycled material in their products and drive up recycling rates.

“At Budget we also announced £20m to support the development of new ways to recycle plastic waste, so that we can better protect our environment for future generations.”

====== 454 ========

NEW DNA INSIGHT MAY OPEN DOOR TO SAVING NORTHERN WHITE RHINO ON BRINK OF EXTINCTION

Genetic analysis has provided hope for the survival of a rhino sub-species that is perilously close to extinction.

When the world’s last male northern white rhino, Sudan, died in March, hope for the continued survival of his kind passed away with him.

However, since his death scientists have stepped up efforts to preserve the northern whites, employing the latest reproductive technologies to bring them back from the brink.

One of the key avenues being pursued is a “hybrid rescue” strategy, creating rhino embryos using sperm collected from northern whites before they died combined with eggs from the far more common southern variety.

Scientists hope that the resulting hybrid rhinos could be used to effectively resurrect this species, but there are concerns about whether they would grow up to be healthy and capable of producing offspring.

Now, a new paper published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B has revealed an ancient link between the two sub-species that could make the process smoother than previously imagined.

DNA sampled from over 200 northern and southern rhinos revealed that during the last ice age the two groups, which in recent years have inhabited separate regions in central and southern Africa, mingled and mated with each other, sharing genetic information.

This suggests that as the continent cooled and grassland expanded to replace forest, the populations linked up.

“If they have been in genetic contact relatively recently – for example within the last 20,000 years – they may be less genetically incompatible than previously thought, making it more likely that hybrids could survive and reproduce,” explained Professor Michael Bruford, one of the study’s authors.

The only known hybrid in recent years was a female born in captivity in 1977, and while she lived 32 years in a zoo she never mated.

With just two female northern white rhinos remaining, the creation of hybrids to help bolster the population has been suggested as a key part of a future conservation strategy.

“We don’t know how they’d fare in the wild. But it is an option and with these data a more viable one than previously appreciated,” said Professor Bruford.

In July scientists announced they had produced the first hybrid embryos ready to place in mothers, while southern white rhinos in zoos have been suggested as viable surrogates.

Once they have obtained permission to use eggs from the last remaining northern whites, the next step will be to create pure-breed embryos using them.

====== 455 ========

TRAVEL ASSOCIATIONS ‘TURNING A BLIND EYE’ TO CRUEL WILDLIFE ATTRACTIONS LIKE ELEPHANT RIDES AND TIGER SELFIES, SAY CAMPAIGNERS

Cruel attractions like elephant rides, tiger selfies and dolphin aquariums are not being tackled by the world’s leading travel associations, according to wildlife campaigners.

New research has revealed the majority of trade associations whose members include top travel agencies and tour guides are doing nothing to prevent harmful practices.

Even among those taking action, World Animal Protection (WAP) said their recommendations were often vague and lacked enforcement mechanisms.

The Independent has previously revealed major travel firms including TUI and TripAdvisor selling holidays in which animals were being hurt and forced to perform tricks, and the campaign group said associations were “turning a blind eye” to these attractions.

In the University of Surrey study supporting these claims, 62 travel trade associations from Australia to Zimbabwe were assessed.

Only six were communicating anything to their members about animal welfare, and of those only two associations and one tourism standard setting body had welfare guidelines as part of their sustainability programmes.

One of those was the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA), a group with a memberships of 1,200 companies including Thomas Cooke and STA Travel.

Despite its relatively prominent position, WAP said industry-leader ABTA must do more to eliminate cruel practices – introducing firm guidelines that class activities like elephant riding as unacceptable and ensuring these measures are enforced.

According to another analysis, more than 550,000 captive wild animals including elephants, sloths, tigers and dolphins are being kept in poor conditions around the world for tourists’ entertainment.

Hundreds of travel companies and millions of people have backed campaigns to eradicate practices considered cruel such as elephant shows, but WAP has warned that at a time when tourism is growing, more action is needed.

Of the associations assessed, the researchers found 16 were actually using promotional pictures interacting with tourists in their promotional materials.

“This is a systematic problem that needs to be addressed to ensure wild animals are not used for cruel tourist entertainment,” said Nick Stewart, head of the Wildlife Not Entertainers programme at World Animal Protection.

“Travel associations must step up, take action and commit to protecting wildlife.

“Following these research findings, we hope that travel associations will review their animal welfare guidelines. These associations must listen to their members and use this as an opportunity to lead the travel industry to fully commit to protecting wildlife.”

The report documenting these findings was launched at the World Travel Market trade show in London on Tuesday.

Responding to the findings, director of destinations and sustainability at ABTA Nikki White said that both the association and its members take animal welfare very seriously.

“We welcome WAP’s recognition that ABTA is leading the way on animal welfare among the global travel industry, however we don’t agree with their assessment of the guidelines,” she said.

Ms White noted that some of their members had purged thousands of tours and changed itineraries to avoid harmful welfare practices.

“ABTA developed the industry’s first ever guidelines for animal welfare in global tourist attractions to provide a framework for our members and businesses to achieve good standards of animal welfare,” she said.

“The guidelines are specific about unacceptable and discouraged practices, as well as minimum requirements.”

====== 456 ========

GOVERNMENT’S ‘DEEPLY WORRYING’ POST-BREXIT ENVIRONMENT PLANS FAIL TO REPLACE ONE-THIRD OF EU LAWS, MPS WARN

Britain could be left with gaping holes in environmental laws allowing polluters to go unpunished and depriving wildlife of vital protection after Brexit, MPs warn in a new report.

The government has still not committed to replacing around a third of all environmental rules governing air, water, chemicals and waste disposal that cannot be copied over into UK law from the EU.

With five months to go until exit day, MPs from the Environmental Audit Committee said the lack of clarity about a sizeable chunk of regulations was “deeply worrying”.

Uncertainty also remains around plans for a new body to hold environmental authorities to account once the EU’s oversight is gone.

Green groups and politicians are concerned that when the European Commission and European Environment Agency no longer have the power to intervene, a similar body will not be ready to ensure laws are enforced.

The government sought to assuage some of these fears in its response to the Environmental Audit Committee’s assessment of its 25-year environment plan setting out a vision for a greener future after Brexit.

However, despite a lengthy back-and-forth between green advocates and the government in recent months, committee chair Mary Creagh said gaps in the government’s proposals still needed to be filled urgently.

“The government’s woolly response makes no firm commitments on the future governance of the environment after Brexit, which is of great concern, given that the agriculture bill is making its way through parliament,” she said.

Green MP and committee member Caroline Lucas said: “What on earth have ministers been doing for the past two years? We’re less than five months away from leaving the EU and the government has tragically failed to ensure we’ll keep vital environmental protections.”

When she announced the 25-year plan in January, Theresa May made it clear the government wanted to strengthen and enhance environmental protections after Brexit, not weaken them.

Environment secretary Michael Gove has repeatedly called for a “green Brexit”, and promised to introduce a watchdog to “hold the powerful to account”.

However, with Brexit date looming and plans for an environment bill in the making, Ms Creagh said there were many areas of the committee’s critique of government plans that remained unaddressed.

“It is deeply worrying that the response does not commit to replace the one-third of EU environmental legislation that cannot be copied and pasted into UK law after Brexit,” she said.

While around two-thirds of EU legislation can be rolled over into UK law with just some technical changes in March, many will have to be replaced.

Besides this uncertainly, there is also currently no confirmation of the extent of the proposed watchdog’s powers, whether it will cover climate change or how it will enforce laws.

Thanks to European oversight, the UK has recently faced legal action over its failure to protect vulnerable harbour porpoises in its waters, and stop precious moorland habitat from being burnt on shooting estates.

“If we want a world-leading environment, we need a strong, independent environmental watchdog which ministers cannot quietly put to sleep,” said Ms Creagh, noting that it must be accountable to parliament.

ClientEarth legal and policy researcher Hatti Owens said that “if it is to adequately ensure the safety of the water we drink, defend the habitats of ferns and frogs, and protect the health of our children’s lungs”, such a watchdog would need the power to hold both government and public authorities to account.

Ms Lucas added that without such a watchdog “ministers will have little reason to enforce any existing environmental protections”.

The MPs also recommended the introduction of five yearly wildlife budgets that would show taxpayers’ money being spent on public goods like flood prevention, preventing extinctions and restoring soils.

Amy Mount of the Greener UK coalition of NGOs, which works towards a green Brexit, agreed the government’s response was evidence “that there is still a great deal of work to do if we are to leave the environment in a better state for the next generation”.

Responding to the criticism, a spokesperson from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: “Our 25-year environment plan sets out in detail how we will improve our environment for the next generation, and we have already taken significant steps to deliver this pledge.

“We are bringing forward the first environment bill in over 20 years, have consulted on a new world-leading body to hold government to account on environmental standards and will publish draft legislation shortly.”

====== 457 ========

WIND TURBINES ACTING AS ‘APEX PREDATORS’ BY DRIVING DOWN BIRD NUMBERS, STUDY FINDS

Wind turbines can act as top predators in ecosystems by driving down populations of birds and triggering knock-on effects across food chains, according to a new study.

Scientists found that predatory raptor birds were four times rarer in parts of an Indian mountain range covered in wind turbines, suggesting they were avoiding the structures.

The same areas saw an explosion in numbers the raptors’ prey, fan-throated lizards, which also became more confident and less scared of humans due to the lack of predation.

“We have basically added a new apex predator – a wind turbine,” Dr Maria Thaker from the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru told The Independent.

“What that predator does is remove the level below it – not kill it, but the outcome is the same.”

These cascading effects on ecosystems suggest that care should be taken to ensure that wind turbines do not have dangerous and far-reaching consequences for nature.

Scientists have become increasingly aware of the impact these massive structures can have on wildlife, with studies showing birds and bats can be killed or scared away by their spinning blades.

However, this wind power playing a significant role in driving the transition away from fossil fuels to reduce the impact of climate change, experts say there is a need to establish a compromise and ensure turbines are built in areas with the lowest impact possible.

“The bottom line for me is that I will pick wind energy over fossil fuels any day,” said Dr Thaker.

“We just have to be smart about where we put them, so can we minimise our impact on the ecosystem by picking areas that are not unique in ways that we cannot replace.”

She suggested putting wind turbines in places that we have already disrupted, such as on top of buildings, and said there must be a dialogue between ecologists and the renewables industry.

Dr Thaker’s findings were published in the journal Nature Ecology & Evolution.

In the UK, the RSPB has examined the issue of wind farms and concluded this kind of strategic approach is required to ensure that harm is kept to a minimum.

While noting that “climate change poses the single greatest long-term threat to our wildlife”, they say wind farms should be located away from major migration routes and important feeding, breeding and roosting areas of vulnerable bird species.

“Wind farms, while they have a crucial role in mitigating the effects of climate change, must be built in the right places so they don’t harm bird populations,” said Dr Aly McCluskie, a conservation scientist at the RSPB.

“In places such as the North Sea, we are beginning to see an unprecedented industrialisation of the marine environment.

“The cumulative effects of ever more poorly sited wind farms are likely to have dire consequences for our seabirds, adding to the pressures from a changing climate.”

====== 458 ========

‘IF WORLD LEADERS CAN’T BE TRUSTED TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT, IT’S NO WONDER PEOPLE ARE TAKING MATTERS INTO THEIR OWN HANDS’

Along with polar bears and elephants, orangutans are the poster children of global wildlife decline. In photos their sad, adorable, and very human faces gaze out at us from the splintered wreckage of a forest cut down to make way for palm oil plantations.

So it caused some surprise when the Indonesian government recently announced these animals are in fact bouncing back – their populations increasing by 10 per cent within the space of just two years across Indonesia’s forested islands.

It certainly surprised wildlife scientist Erik Meijaard, who together with a small team of colleagues has written a letter explaining categorically why they think the Indonesian authorities are wrong. They say a rosy picture has been painted based on unrepresentative data and wild assumptions – the orangutan numbers reported by the government were “biologically impossible”.

We can only speculate about the government’s motives, although it’s notable that deforestation is big business in Indonesia. It’s easy to see why authorities might want to approve numbers which make it seem like efforts to preserve nature’s bounty are going well, when in fact scientists have recorded horrifying declines in orangutan populations.

For other political leaders, outright antipathy towards the natural world is more clear cut. Jair Bolsonaro, the man who now controls two thirds of the largest rainforest on Earth, has made it clear he has no plans to look after it responsibly. Brazil’s new president plans to eliminate his environment ministry, kick green NGOs out of the country and build a massive highway through the middle of the Amazon.

Known as the “Trump of the Tropics”, Mr Bolsonaro is of course aping the rhetoric of another anti-environmentalist overseeing vast expanses of pristine nature. By dropping out of the Paris climate agreement and choosing to focus instead on “beautiful, clean coal”, Donald Trump has cemented his reputation as an existential threat to global environmental decisions that have taken years to formulate.

Following the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s shocking report in October, world leaders will soon meet in Poland to establish a “rulebook” for the Paris agreement that is meant to guide the world to a greener, carbon-free future.

The ambition is noble, but if we have leaders who don’t care that wildlife populations are in freefall while the planet’s temperature threatens to spiral out of control, it’s hard to be optimistic about its implementation. What’s the point of a rulebook if some of the most important players don’t want to stick to it?

With little faith left in their leaders, for many the obvious course of action is to take matters into their own hands. This can mean anything from the indigenous people of Brazil organising opposition to a man who threatens their very existence, to entire states in the US doing what they can to tear away from the federal government’s environmental plans and insisting that they will not let the president wreck the climate they all share.

In the UK , hundreds of activists have announced they are willing to go to prison to force ministers to take radical action on climate change as part of the “Extinction Rebellion” movement. While admittedly the UK’s environment policies have been comparatively sane compared to the US and Brazil, here too we see politicians letting green issues take a back seat behind business, and perhaps not always being 100 per cent truthful.

With warnings from experts about impending disaster looking ever more urgent, and leaders unwilling to act, the question many protestors ask is simply: what other choice do we have but to take action ourselves?

====== 459 ========

EARTH'S OZONE LAYER IS FINALLY HEALING, SAYS UN

The ozone layer is finally beginning to heal from all the damage caused by aerosol sprays and other man-made chemicals, a new United Nations report has revealed.

The protective shield in Earth’s atmosphere had been thinning out before scientists raised the alarm about the impact of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in the 1980s.

As a result of bans introduced by global governments, the upper ozone layer above the Northern Hemisphere should be completely restored in the 2030s.

A gaping hole in the ozone over the Antarctic won’t disappear until later – sometime in the 2060s, according to a scientific assessment released on Monday at a conference in Quito, Ecuador.

The ozone layer in the Southern Hemisphere should be repaired by mid-century.

“It’s really good news,” said report co-chairman Paul Newman, chief Earth scientist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center.

“If ozone-depleting substances had continued to increase, we would have seen huge effects. We stopped that.”

The ozone layer starts around six miles above the Earth and protects the planet from the Sun’s cancer-causing ultraviolet rays.

Use of CFCs in aerosol sprays and refrigerator coolants began eating away at the ozone in the 1970s.

But in 1987, countries around the world agreed in the Montreal Protocol to phase out CFCs and businesses came up with replacements for spray cans and other forms of the harmful chemicals.

At its worst in the late 1990s, about 10 per cent of the upper ozone layer was depleted.

“Evidence presented by the authors shows that the ozone layer in parts of the stratosphere has recovered at a rate of 1 to 3 percent per decade since 2000,” said the UN Environment and the World Meteorological Organization.

If nothing had been done to stop the thinning, the world would have destroyed two-thirds of its ozone layer by 2065, said Mr Newman.

However, the University of Colorado’s Brian Toon, a climate scientist who was not part of the UN report, urged caution.

“We are only at a point where recovery may have started,” said Mr Toon.

One potential problem is that new technology has found an increase in emissions of a particular kind of banned CFC in east Asia, the report noted.

And replacements now being used to cool cars and refrigerators need to be replaced themselves with chemicals that don’t make global warming worse, Mr Newman said.

An amendment to the Montreal Protocol that goes into effect next year would cut the use of some of those gases.

“I don’t think we can do a victory lap until 2060,” Newman said. “That will be for our grandchildren to do.”

Additional reporting by agencies

====== 460 ========

ORANGUTANS DECLINING DESPITE ‘IMPOSSIBLE’ INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT REPORT CLAIMING THEY ARE ON THE RISE, SCIENTISTS SAY

Claims by the Indonesian government that populations of critically endangered orangutans are recovering have been dismissed by scientists as “impossible”.

A recent report from the nation’s environment ministry concluded orangutan populations in Indonesia had increased by more than 10 per cent in just two years.

However, international scientists have concluded these figures are not accurate, and the great apes continue to be threatened by deforestation and hunting.

Dr Erik Meijaard, from the International Union for Conservation of Nature, said all three species of orangutan are “on a steep decline”.

“Their numbers are not increasing as indicated by the Indonesian government report," he said.

One recent study concluded that the island of Borneo lost more than 100,000 individuals between 1999 and 2015. Another found the population had dropped by a quarter in a decade.

Surveys have found that vast swathes of the apes’ habitat has been destroyed to make way for palm oil plantations, a change that is bound to affect their numbers.

Dr Meijaard and colleagues applauded the Indonesian authorities for transparently documenting the impact of forest management on wildlife, but questioned the methods used.

Not only did the 10 per cent rise far exceed the government’s own target of a 2 per cent population increase, it was also reported for 19 other priority species for conservation, including Sumatran rhinoceros.

The scientists said such positive progress was simply not feasible given known breeding rates and threat levels.

To track orangutan numbers, the government used information from nine monitoring sites, in which the 2015 population was recorded as 1,153 orangutans. They then estimated the population doubled to 2,451 individuals by 2016.

Using this figure, officials then extrapolated a 10 per cent figure for all orangutans across Indonesia.

But the scientists stated it is “biologically impossible for an orangutan population to double its size in a year”.

They attribute some of the recorded rises to orangutans being moved between national parks, an act which would clearly mean loss in one area at the same time as gain in another.

Finally, they noted the government-sampled area covered less than 5 per cent of the Bornean and Sumatran orangutan ranges, and none of the Tapanuli orangutan habitat, making the government’s conclusions “scientifically unjustified”.

The report, which was supported by the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organization and Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative, will now inform the development of a 10-year action plan for orangutan conservation.

Dr Meijaard added: “If the government thinks that orangutan populations are increasing, it calls for completely different strategies compared to those required for dealing with rapidly decreasing populations.

“It is important that the government realises that populations remain in decline. Therefore, a new approach to orangutan conservation is needed.”

The scientists pointed to the Indonesian government’s recent successes in implementing policies to reduce fires and restore peatlands, and said they must step up to meet the challenge of orangutan conservation in a similar way.

Their analysis was supported by the US Fish and Wildlife Service, and published in the scientific journal Current Biology.

The Independent has contacted the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry for comment.

====== 461 ========

SUPREME COURT REFUSES TO BLOCK YOUNG PEOPLE’S CLIMATE CHANGE LAWSUIT AGAINST US GOVERNMENT

The Supreme Court has refused to halt a novel lawsuit filed by young Americans that attempts to force the federal government to take action on climate change, turning down a request from the Trump administration to stop it before trial.

The suit, filed in 2015 by 21 young people who argue that the failure of government leaders to combat climate change violates their constitutional right to a clean environment, is before a federal judge in Oregon.

It had been delayed while the Supreme Court considered the emergency request from the government.

Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch would have stopped the suit. The other justices did not indicate how they voted on the government's request.

The court's three-page order said the government should seek relief before the US Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.

It noted the government's assertion that the “suit is based on an assortment of unprecedented legal theories, such as a substantive due process right to certain climate conditions, and an equal protection right to live in the same climate as enjoyed by prior generations”.

The justices acknowledged that the 9th Circuit had previously turned down the government, but said those decisions came when there was a “likelihood that plaintiffs' claims would narrow as the case progressed”.

That no longer seems the case, the unsigned opinion said, suggesting the possibility that the 9th Circuit might see things differently now.

And it left open the possibility that the government could return to the Supreme Court.

The plaintiffs in the case range in age from 11 to 22. The goal of their lawsuit is to compel the government to scale back its support for fossil fuel extraction and production and to support policies aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming.

“We've been confident throughout this case that we would get to trial, and I believe we will get to trial,” Julia Olson, the attorney for the youths and executive director of Our Children's Trust, said in an interview with The Washington Post on Friday evening.

“We have overcome everything the government has thrown at us. It is not luck. It is the strength of the case and the strength of the evidence and the strength of the legal arguments we are making.”

The Obama and Trump administrations had repeatedly asked lower courts to halt the lawsuit, questioning its merits, saying discovery requests were “burdensome” and arguing that the suit would usurp the authorities of Congress and federal agencies.

The plaintiffs “seek nothing less than a complete transformation of the American energy system - including the abandonment of fossil fuels - ordered by a single district court at the behest of 'twenty-one children and youth,'” Solicitor General Noel J Francisco wrote in a brief to the Supreme Court.

“As the government has maintained since first moving to dismiss this suit in 2016, [the] assertion of sweeping new fundamental rights to certain climate conditions has no basis in the nation's history and tradition — and no place in federal court.”

Mr Francisco acknowledged he was asking for “extraordinary relief” by asking the high court to stop the trial before it began. But he said the unique nature of the lawsuit deserved such an exception.

If the long trial were allowed to proceed, “it could well be years into the future” before the government could “seek relief from such an egregious abuse of the civil litigation process and violation of the separation of powers”.

The government has made similar arguments in lower courts, but time and again judges allowed the case to proceed.

The government also went to the Supreme Court earlier this summer seeking a stay, but the court in an unsigned opinion called the request “premature.”

In a 103-page filing this week intended to keep the trial on track, the plaintiffs argued that the Trump administration would not suffer “irreparable” harm in having to go through with the case.

“This case clearly poses profoundly important constitutional questions, including questions about individual liberty and standing, the answers to which depend upon the full evaluation of evidence at trial,” the lawyers wrote.

They added: “These young plaintiffs, mere children and youth, are already suffering irreparable harm which worsens as each day passes with more carbon dioxide accumulating in the atmosphere and oceans.

"The young activists also used the chance to once again demand that the courts compel the government to “cease their violation of plaintiffs' rights, prepare an accounting of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan to cease the constitutional violations by phasing out fossil fuel emissions and drawing down atmospheric CO2.”

Ms Olson said the young plaintiffs were filing a request with the district court in Oregon for a hearing soon, in hopes of moving towards the long-awaited trial.

Officials at the Department of Justice could not be reached immediately for comment Friday.

Washington Post

====== 462 ========

SHOW ME THE WAY TO GO... ANYWHERE I WANT

What are maps for? To help us explore, or simply to act as a route planner?

As a literary device, maps offer the perfect means by which protagonists make discoveries or uncover mysteries. The creation of a map can even be an end in itself, especially in children’s fiction. Arthur Ransome’s Swallows and Amazons became ever more proficient at map making – they were as much professional surveyors as they were child sailors by the time their series of stories had come to an end.

For past generations of Britons, maps were objects of imperial pride; evidence of British influence around a world that had been brought to heel, recorded and civilised by the nation’s armies, explorers, missionaries and men of business.

That colonial outlook may have gone, replaced by the era of globalisation – in which horizons are no less expansive but in which there is a lesser sense of discovery; we engage, rather than explore.

Other change has come more recently. Even 20 years ago, when satellite navigation was something of a novelty, a car journey into unknown territory would require both a map, and the ability to read it. That is no longer so. Tell your phone where you want to go and it will take you on the quickest route with no questions asked. All you need to do is follow the path of least resistance.

The result of all this is that we tend to see maps only in the context of providing us with a way to get from A to B. On satnav screens we are a little blob following an arrow, turning left or right as directed – but with no real sense of place. We can even rely on satellites to guide wild walks.

What would the men and women of the Ordnance Survey make of it; especially those who battled the elements to survey the 2,529 mountains of Great Britain? Given that map-making is a science, they might well marvel at the advances we’ve made in technology; but since it is also an art form they might wonder whether all those carefully recorded contour lines are getting the attention they deserve.

Maps, after all, should be pored over, examined for what they can tell us about our surroundings – about geography and about history too. Spend an hour with an “OS Explorer” of your local area and you’ll understand how towns developed over time; how railways came and went; how farming dominates so many rural landscapes – all quite aside from the natural features of the land. Maybe I spend too much time staring at maps, daydreaming of places I have not seen but which I can imagine. On the other hand, there are Iron Age hill forts, peculiarly deep valleys and tucked away woods that I would not have visited had I not first noticed them – unheralded – on a map.

Not that maps are the be-all and end-all.

On a mountain, in dense fog, a piece of paper covered with a lot of squiggly lines might as well be blank for all the help it offers. Orienteering requires, as a base level, not being disorientated – which in turn requires one of two things: being able to see, or knowing the direction in which you’re travelling.

So by all means love maps. But carry a compass too. I have learned that, almost to my cost.

====== 463 ========

FURY AS CHINA, RUSSIA AND NORWAY BLOCK LANDMARK ANTARCTIC OCEAN SANCTUARY PLAN

Environmental campaigners have hit out at China, Norway and Russia for blocking moves to create a vast Antarctic ocean sanctuary to protect species including orcas, blue whales, seals and penguins.

The landmark proposal to set up the world’s largest protected marine zone had the backing of 22 out of 25 members of an international group poised to confirm it.

It would have banned all commercial fishing in an area roughly the size of Sudan – 1.8 million sq km – and given a chance for wildlife and fish species to recover from damage by humans, experts said.

The sanctuary would also have played a key role in tackling climate change by soaking up huge amounts of greenhouse gases.

But at talks in Hobart in Tasmania, delegations from China, Norway and Russia all helped to block the proposal, which needed unanimous agreement.

Frida Bengtsson, of Greenpeace’s Protect the Antarctic campaign, said: “Rather than put forward reasoned opposition on scientific grounds, some delegations, like China and Russia, deployed delaying tactics such as wrecking amendments and filibustering, which meant there was barely any time left for real discussion about protecting Antarctic waters.

“This was a historic opportunity to create the largest protected area on Earth in the Antarctic: safeguarding wildlife, tackling climate change and improving the health of our global oceans.

“Twenty-two delegations came here to negotiate in good faith but instead, serious scientific proposals for urgent marine protection were derailed by interventions that barely engaged with the science.

“The only glimmer of hope came when the small vulnerable marine ecosystems identified by Greenpeace on our recent expedition were approved for protection.”

Globally, less than 10 per cent of the world’s seas are Marine Protected Areas, protecting them from damaging activity, and Ms Bengtsson warned that time was running out.

“Scientists are clear that we need to create marine sanctuaries across at least 30 per cent of our oceans by 2030, to protect wildlife, ensure food security for billions and help to tackle climate change,” she said.

In 2009 the Antarctic Ocean Commission which is made up of 24 countries plus the EU, agreed to create a network of havens, but since then, she said, “their diplomatic efforts seem to be more concerned with expanding fisheries than with conservation”.

More than two million people had signed a petition in support of the sanctuary.

Greenpeace UK oceans campaigner Louisa Casson said the UK’s efforts had been consistently undermined.

Their diplomatic efforts seem to be more concerned with expanding fisheries than with conservation

The charity’s polar adviser, Dr Laura Meller, said the Chinese delegation had obstructed all opportunities to cooperate.

Norway decided to put forward its own proposal dividing the area in two.

Dr Meller said: “Under Russia’s chairmanship in 2016, the Antarctic Ocean Commission made global headlines when it agreed to protect the Ross Sea, yet since then Russia has failed to act in good faith, instead only pursuing niche fishing interests, while preventing the commission from fulfilling its mandate to create a network of sanctuaries in the Antarctic Ocean.”

The latest failed deal would have covered the Weddell Sea and parts of the Antarctic peninsula.

Foreign Office minister Alan Duncan, who was in Hobart for the talks, said the government would continue to press for the creation of Antarctic ocean sanctuaries.

Greenpeace said the Antarctic’s future would now be in the hands of negotiations on a global ocean treaty at the UN, which could reach a deal by 2020.

Parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity have previously agreed to protect 10 per cent of coastal and marine areas by 2020.

The UK will join almost 200 other countries at a UN biodiversity conference later this month in Egypt, where talks will begin on a new global target for marine protected areas.

The government says it will push to raise the figure to 30 per cent by 2030.

====== 464 ========

MINORITY GROUPS FAR MORE VULNERABLE TO DEADLY US WILDFIRES, STUDY FINDS

Massive wildfires of the kind that struck California this year disproportionately impact minority ethnic groups in the US, according to a study.

Communities that are mostly black, Hispanic or Native American are 50 per cent more exposed to these deadly blazes, based on a “vulnerability index” compiled by scientists.

Native Americans were by far the most vulnerable, as they were six times more likely than other groups to live in wildfire-prone regions.

The finding tallies with previous work that has revealed environmental disasters, including those being exacerbated by climate change, hit minority groups the hardest.

Hurricanes such as Katrina in 2005 have been noted for affecting black residents in cities like New Orleans worse than others.

According to the authors of the study, which was published in the journal PLOS ONE, their findings challenge preconceived notions about wildfires and their victims.

“A general perception is that communities most affected by wildfires are affluent people living in rural and suburban communities near forested areas,” said lead author Ian Davies, a graduate student at the University of Washington.

“But there are actually millions of people who live in areas that have a high wildfire potential and are very poor, or don’t have access to vehicles or other resources, which makes it difficult to adapt or recover from a wildfire disaster.”

To measure the vulnerability of people to fires, the scientists took into account 13 socioeconomic measures for more than 70,000 census regions.

The factors included income, housing type, English fluency and health, and these were then combined with information about wildfire potential in a given area based on historic records and weather patterns.

“We can see that the impacts of recent fires were exacerbated for low-income residents facing a shortage of affordable housing, for example, and for Hispanic residents for whom English is not their first language,” said Professor Phil Levin, lead scientist at The Nature Conservancy and one of the study’s authors.

The scientists used news reports from past wildfires to corroborate their findings.

These confirmed that in recent years language barriers prevented authorities releasing Spanish-language emergency information in a timely manner, putting Hispanic populations at greater risk.

A message emerging from their data was that natural disasters are not always completely natural, and are instead products of both environmental impact and the social, political and economic context in which that impact happens.

To address the problems they identified, the team called for authorities to take socioeconomic factors into account and help these communities prepare better for wildfires.

====== 465 ========

SEED BANKS WILL NOT SAVE OVER THIRD OF CRITICALLY ENDANGERED PLANTS, NEW STUDY FINDS

More than a third of critically endangered plant species cannot be saved from extinction by freezing them in seed banks, scientists have warned.

Projects such as the Svalbard Global Seed Vault have been set up to protect the world’s plant diversity from doomsday events ranging from nuclear war to extreme climate change.

In the UK, Kew’s Millennium Seed Bank is aiming to protect three quarters of the world’s threatened plant species within the next two years.

"Ex-situ conservation of plants is more critical than ever, with many threats to plant populations including climate change, habitat conversion and plant pathogens, we need to make sure we're doing all we can to conserve the most important and threatened species,” said Dr John Dickie, head of seed collections at Kew.

However, for many of the most at-risk plants, conventional storage techniques will not work, and a team of Kew scientists has called for research into alternative measures to ensure their survival.

In total around 8 per cent of all plant species cannot be banked by drying and freezing their seeds, including trees like oaks and horse chestnuts, and foods including mangos and avocados.

These seeds are recalcitrant, meaning they do not survive the drying process.

In a new paper published in the journal Nature Plants, the researchers estimated that 36 per cent of the plants at the greatest risk of extinction are recalcitrant.

They also noted that tree seeds were particularly likely to die following attempts to dry and freeze them, with around a third deemed “unbankable”.

Using this analysis Dr Dickie and former colleague Dr Sarah Wyse were able to predict that the target of preserving 75 per cent of threatened species by 2020 is practically impossible.

With numbers of unsuitable seeds particularly high among endangered species, the scientists recommended investing in an alternative technique known as cryopreservation.

The method involves removing a seed’s embryo and then using liquid nitrogen to freeze it at -196C, far colder than he conventional seed bank temperature of -20C.

This would also extend the lifetimes of seeds that do not last very long at normal seed bank temperatures.

“As successful as seed banking is for some species, it is not suitable for all seed plants and we need to invest in other ways to safeguard recalcitrant seeds,” explained Dr Dickie.

“This paper shows that we need greater international effort to understand and apply alternative techniques like cryopreservation which have the potential to conserve many more species from extinction."

Past efforts to get cryopreservation off the ground have failed, but the team at Kew said beyond 2020 there must be a renewed effort to save at risk species.

====== 466 ========

BREXIT: GOVERNMENT URGED TO REVIVE FISHING FOR ENDANGERED TUNA IN UK WATERS AFTER BRITAIN LEAVES EU

Brexit provides an opportunity to revive big-game fishing for endangered tuna in British waters for the first time in decades, according to campaigners.

Numbers of bluefin tuna appear to have increased in British waters over the last three years, and campaigners say the time is ripe to begin targeting the massive fish.

The Angling Trust and campaign group Bluefin Tuna UK met with two supportive MPs on Wednesday to launch a campaign calling for a “world leading” new catch-and-release fishery.

However, environmental groups have warned against the proposal, which they say would cause unnecessary harm to fish that have just recovered from “the brink of collapse” and are still considered endangered.

Bluefin tuna were subject to a global stock recovery programme starting in 2007 that saw limits placed on the number that could be caught both in commercial and sports fisheries.

Under EU rules, the UK is not allowed to catch any bluefin tuna, with the vast majority of Europe’s quota allocated for commercial operations in Spain, Italy and France.

After Brexit, the government will be able apply to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna (ICCAT) in a bid to establish its own bluefin fishery for recreational anglers.

North Cornwall MP Scott Mann said he supported efforts to take this opportunity because he wanted to lure big game fishers from Florida and Mexico to the Cornish coast.

“It would be a massive boost to our coastal communities if the government was to take up these proposals and allow local anglers to enjoy world class catch-and-release big game fishing right on our doorsteps,” he said.

Britain was home to a thriving tuna fishery until the 1950s operating primarily out of Scarborough, until overfishing saw stocks plummet.

With knowledge of tuna numbers still thin on the ground, however, environmentalists said it was too premature to declare a full recovery for the species in British waters.

“If it was a land animal of a similar conservation status, then it would be a ridiculous idea,” said John Hourston from Blue Planet Society.

He noted that the apparent influx of tuna may simply be the result of certain shoals from warmer waters migrating northwards as climate change causes ocean water temperatures to rise.

“There is a very good chance that there is exactly the same number of bluefin tuna, but they have just moved into British waters,” he said.

“We are right in the boundary between temperate and cold water seas – that boundary can fluctuate and it will bring warmer water species with it.”

Due to the potential for damage and even death resulting from catch-and-release methods, Will McCallum from Greenpeace said any decision to allow tuna fishing would have to be based on rigorous research.

“This is exactly the kind of research that was not, for example, taken into account when the ICCAT decided to increase quotas last year to an unacceptably risky level,” he said.

David Mitchell, head of marine at the Angling Trust said anglers would actually be able to help with monitoring efforts by tagging fish that they caught prior to release.

“The authorised involvement of committed and conservation minded anglers in the fishery would not only add significantly to our knowledge of these tremendous fish but would guard against moves to reinstate unsustainable commercial harvesting and the inevitable illegal fishing,” he said.

Overall the campaigners described their proposal as a “win-win” that would bring conservation and economic benefits.

A spokesperson from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: “We have a strong track record in championing sustainable fishing and it is important that quotas are always guided by the latest scientific evidence.”

====== 467 ========

MPS AND ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS ACCUSE THERESA MAY OF ‘UNFORGIVABLE BETRAYAL’ ON CLIMATE CHANGE IN BUDGET

MPs and the heads of environmental organisations have written to Theresa May saying the Budget presented to parliament on Monday is an “unforgivable betrayal of future generations”, due to its “worrying lack” of policy to combat climate change.

Green Party co-leader Caroline Lucas and six other MPs, including Labour’s Clive Lewis and former Lib Dem leader Tim Farron signed the letter, which says “pushing policymaking into the long grass of Brexit at this stage represents an abject failure to govern in the interests of the people you are elected to serve.”

The chief executives of Greenpeace, 10:10 Climate Action and Global Witness were also among the signatories, who said the Budget was “a nadir for this government’s tainted climate record” and demanded “urgent action in the coming days must be announced”.

“Not only did the chancellor fail to mention climate change in his speech, but the policies he put forward – from subsidy to polluters via the fuel duty freeze to a mass road building programme – will increase the UK’s climate impact,” the letter says.

It also takes issue with the government’s fracking programme and highlights the findings of the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) commissioned by the United Nations, published three weeks ago and which issued the most urgent and far-reaching call yet for world governments to cut their greenhouse gas emissions and stop global warming.

“[The report] was very clear about what governments need to urgently do – yet your government has all but ignored its publication in this Budget,” the letter says.

Mr Hammond’s Budget included £28.8 billion for the National Roads Fund for Highways England between 2020 and 2025, an extra £420m on top of the current fund of £300m immediately available to councils to tackle potholes, and fuel duty has been frozen for the ninth consecutive year, despite the fact it was revealed freezing fuel duty costs the Treasury £800m a year.

The chancellor also killed off plans for a “latte levy”, which would have taxed disposable coffee cups.

The only green initiative announced was £60m towards planting trees – 500 times less than the sum going towards roads.

Here is the letter to the prime minister in full:

Dear Prime Minister,

On Monday, your Government presented its Budget, and in doing so revealed a profoundly worrying lack of policy changes to combat the greatest threat of our time: climate change. Not only did the Chancellor fail to mention climate change in his speech, but the policies he put forward – from subsidy to polluters via the fuel duty freeze to a mass road building programme – will increase the UK’s climate impact.

With fracking now proceeding, and continued tax breaks being handed out to fossil fuel firms, we believe it is now vital we call out failure from a generation of politicians who will not live to see the devastation that their policies will wreak on future generations.

The most recent IPCC report was very clear about what Governments need to urgently do – yet your Government has all but ignored its publication in this Budget. We should be very clear here about timescales. It’s almost too late already, so pushing policymaking into the long grass of Brexit at this stage represents an abject failure to govern in the interests of the people you are elected to serve.

We do not accept that individuals in the Government do not care about climate change, nor that it’s too late to change course. We simply state here and now that the Budget must be a nadir for this Government’s tainted climate record – and that urgent action in the coming days must be announced. Anything short of that would be an unforgivable betrayal of future generations.

Caroline Lucas MP

Clive Lewis MP

Liz Saville-Roberts MP

Anna McMorrin MP

Tim Farron MP

Alex Sobel MP

Roger Godsiff MP

Gillian Caldwell, CEO, Global Witness

John Sauven, Director, Greenpeace

Hugo Tagholm, Director, Surfers Against Sewage

Guppi Bola, Director, Medact

Alice Bell, Director, 10:10 Climate Action

====== 468 ========

CONSERVATIVES LINE UP TO CRITICISE GOVERNMENT'S ‘DOWNRIGHT BONKERS’ FRACKING PLANS

The government's plans to fast-track new fracking projects have been described as “ludicrous” and “downright bonkers”, by their own MPs.

Politicians from all parties lined up at a parliamentary debate to criticise a proposal to reclassify exploratory fracking wells as permitted developments, under rules originally introduced to speed up projects like small property extensions.

The government has stated it wishes to make such decisions “faster and fairer”, but opponents said it would make fracking as easy as putting up a garden shed.

Fracking has proved a contentious topic in recent weeks as the first well in seven years has been the site of protests and seen off a legal challenge to block it. Operations at Preston New Road, Lancashire, have stopped three times due to concerns about earth tremors.

The government has stated it wishes to make such decisions “faster and fairer”, but opponents say it would make fracking as easy as putting up a garden shed.

Mark Menzies, a Conservative MP whose Fylde constituency includes the Preston New Road site, cited the massive infrastructure developments needed at new fracking sites including “a 30-metre drilling rig”.

“Now, who on Earth thinks that is equivalent to building a little extension on the side of your bungalow? It is not,” he said. “Moving to permitted development is nothing short of irresponsible and downright bonkers.”

Zac Goldsmith, Conservative MP for Richmond Park, said the government supporting fracking while blocking new onshore wind developments was “inexplicably inconsistent” and evidence of “policy that is driven more by ideology than anything else”.

There are reportedly up to 20 Conservative MPs ready to rebel over the government’s plan, which critics say would effectively strip local people of the ability to block fracking applications.

Tories from constituencies facing new fracking sites including Kevin Hollinrake and Lee Rowley expressed their concerns that people’s voices would be taken away.

“I started without any fixed view on fracking, but I stand here today to say that the proposal on permitted development and the proposal on NSIP [nationally significant infrastructure projects] are ludicrous and need to be stopped, and that fracking will not work in this country,” said the MP for North East Derbyshire.

Mr Rowley, who chairs the all-party parliamentary group on the impact of shale gas, has questioned whether it will be possible for fracking plans to ever be scaled up into a workable industry in the UK.

The same concerns have recently been expressed by Francis Egan, the chief executive of oil and gas firm Cuadrilla, which operates the site in Lancashire.

With persistent earth tremors repeatedly halting proceedings since they began at the site two weeks ago, Mr Egan has stated the current regulatory system could stop fracking becoming commercially viable in the UK.

Under the "traffic light" system currently used by the industry, fracking must stop whenever it causes tremors with a magnitude above 0.5.

One independent study estimated that over 6,000 wells will be needed to make it a practical option to supply gas to the UK’s energy system.

The most recent estimate by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) suggested there will be 155 wells by 2025, although energy minister Claire Perry has stated this figure is now “out of date”.

Daniel Carey-Dawes, senior infrastructure campaigner at the Campaign to Protect Rural England said the debate was "a clear demonstration of the widespread growing anger – by MPs on all sides of the political spectrum – towards the government’s plans to fast-track fracking".

The government recently closed its consultation on whether new shale exploration sites should be treated as permitted developments.

Responding to the concerns raised at the debate, housing minister Kit Malthouse said the government remained “fully committed to ensuring that local communities are fully involved in planning decisions that affect them, and to making planning decisions faster and fairer”.

“Those are long-standing principles and I am adamant that we should stick to them.”

BEIS has emphasised the role it sees for natural gas in meeting the UK’s climate targets, and the role fracking can play in this.

====== 469 ========

FORMER COAL MINE TO BE TRANSFORMED INTO NEW WOODLAND IN DERBYSHIRE

Thousands of trees are set to be planted in a post-industrial part of Derbyshire to transform a former coal mine into a new woodland.

Under the plans, a 162 hectare site would be covered in 260,000 trees to create one of the region’s largest areas of native forest.

The Woodland Trust has initially purchased a quarter of the land, and is seeking funds to acquire the remainder in order to create a large haven for wildlife.

Coal production only stopped at the site in 2016 when the Lodge House open cast mine stopped operating, and since then work has been underway to fill in the gaping hole left in the ground.

Beccy Speight, chief executive of the Woodland Trust, described the purchase as an opportunity to connect the community with a site for nature “right on their doorstep”.

“It has the potential to be an attractive natural amenity; somewhere to get close to nature and enjoy peace and tranquillity – a space to help boost both mental and physical health,” she said.

“If we’re able to secure the site we’ll restore and manage the land for the long term and ensure it is open to the public and freely accessible to explore as well as providing a haven for wildlife.”

The charity said they are particularly keen to engage children and young people at the site with tree planting.

They estimate the total cost of the project will run to around £5m, and plan to launch a fundraising campaign to help fund it.

Tree planting has been highlighted as a crucial component in plans to boost Britain’s dwindling wildlife and help push back against climate change, as woodland can act as a crucial store for carbon emissions from the atmosphere.

“Just 10 per cent of England is wooded, which lags way behind the European average of 38 per cent,” said Ms Speight.

Surveys conducted at the site have revealed it is already home to over 40 bird species including linnets and skylarks, with evidence of badgers and endangered water voles living nearby.

With the Shipley Country Park and Derbyshire Wildlife Trust's Woodside Farm nearby, the creation of a new woodland would result in a joined-up zone of more than 500 hectares of wildlife-friendly space.

====== 470 ========

CLIMATE CHANGE COULD ACCELERATE FASTER THAN PREDICTED, NEW RESEARCH INTO WORLD'S OCEANS WARNS

The world’s oceans have absorbed far more heat than previously estimated, suggesting global warming and climate change could accelerate faster than predicted, according to new research.

The results suggest over the past 27 years, the world’s oceans have retained 60 per cent more heat each year than research teams had previously thought.

This represents an enormous amount of additional energy stored on Earth, indicating the planet is far more sensitive to fossil-fuel emissions than past studies have shown.

It also raises further serious doubts over whether current temperature goals – to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels – are attainable.

If accurate, the study is likely to have a major impact on climate modelling, which has largely used lower estimates for the amount of energy stored in the oceans.

Most previous models for ocean heat uptake have used data taken from the Argo Float programme, in which about 4,000 buoys drifting at around 1,000m below the surface of the oceans take temperature and other readings. It has been fully operational since 2007. Issues with the system are that it only measures the upper part of the ocean, and there remain huge gaps in coverage.

But the new study provides a separate estimate with data going back to 1991, and uses “dependable” measurements of atmospheric oxygen (O2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) – levels of which increase as the ocean warms and releases gases – as a “whole-ocean thermometer”, the authors wrote.

The study, published in the journal Nature, says the world’s oceans took up more than 13 zettajoules – which is a joule, the standard unit of energy, followed by 21 zeroes – of heat energy each year between 1991 and 2016.

This amounts to the oceans absorbing an amount of heat energy 150 times greater than the energy humans produce as electricity annually, over each year of the past quarter of a century.

“We thought that we got away with not a lot of warming in both the ocean and the atmosphere for the amount of CO2 that we emitted,” lead author Dr Laure Resplandy of Princeton University, told The Washington Post.

“But we were wrong. The planet warmed more than we thought. It was hidden from us just because we didn’t sample it right. But it was there. It was in the ocean already.”

The study comes three weeks after scientists from the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) commissioned by the United Nations issued the most urgent and far-reaching call yet for world governments to cut their greenhouse gas emissions and stop global warming.

“It is a big concern,” Dr Resplandy said.

“If you look at the IPCC 1.5C, there are big challenges ahead to keep those targets, and our study suggests it’s even harder because we close the window for those lower pathways,” she told the BBC.

Scientists already know the ocean takes up roughly 90 per cent of all excess energy produced as the Earth warms, so calculating the actual amount of energy makes it possible to estimate the level of surface warming we can expect, said the study’s co-author Ralph Keeling, a Scripps Oceanography geophysicist.

“The result significantly increases the confidence we can place in estimates of ocean warming and therefore helps reduce uncertainty in the climate sensitivity, particularly closing off the possibility of very low climate sensitivity,” Professor Keeling said.

The findings suggest if governments are to prevent temperatures from rising above 2C, emissions of carbon dioxide, the chief greenhouse gas produced by human activities, must be reduced by 25 per cent compared to what was previously estimated, Dr Resplandy said.

====== 471 ========

GENETIC CODE OF EVERY ANIMAL, PLANT AND FUNGUS IN UK TO BE SEQUENCED IN AMBITIOUS PROJECT

The genetic codes of every animal, plant and fungus in the UK will be sequenced in a massive new project scientists say will benefit everything from conservation to medicine.

Dubbed the Darwin Tree of Life Project, the initiative is part of a massive global effort to unravel the DNA of all life on Earth.

The code of 66,000 species will be obtained over the course of a decade, providing naturalists with unprecedented insights that will turn the study of British wildlife on its head.

Samples will be gathered by teams across the country, and the latest technologies will be employed to process thousands of genomes every year throughout a network of UK institutions.

Amid warnings of a collapse in global biodiversity, the scientists say an understanding of the code underpinning these species will guide efforts to preserve them from extinction

The strategy could also provide enormous benefits for humanity, as researchers say the genetic information obtained will likely form the basis of new drugs, food and even fuels.

The project is launching to coincide with the overarching programme known as the Earth BioGenome Project, which is sequencing the genomes of all 1.5 million known species of animals, plants, fungi and protozoa – lifeforms known collectively as eukaryotes.

The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute near Cambridge will serve as the UK genome-sequencing hub, with institutions from the Natural History Museum to the University of Edinburgh adding their expertise.

The project is estimated to cost around £100m in the first five years.

“Globally, more than half of the vertebrate population has been lost in the past 40 years, and 23,000 species face the threat of extinction in the near future,” said Professor Mike Stratton, director of the institute.

“Using the biological insights we will get from the genomes of all eukaryotic species, we can look to our responsibilities as custodians of life on this planet, tending life on Earth in a more informed manner using those genomes, at a time when nature is under considerable pressure, not least from us.”

The work will build on a previous project by Sanger scientists that saw them sequence 25 key British species including red and grey squirrels, robins and blackberries.

The chair of the Earth BioGenome Project, Professor Harris Lewin of the University of California, Davis, said British efforts would serve as a model for projects around the world to follow.

For the UK, Dr Tim Littlewood from the Natural History Museum said the initiative will allow scientists to re-evaluate their understanding of well-known species.

“A lot of the UK’s species lists and ID guides are now over 100 years old,” he said.

“We’ve not actually redressed, or returned to, our own natural history for a very long time in any grand system. And we’ve not yet looked at it in a modern sense, either.”

In recent months and years it has become clear that British species – from hedgehogs to puffins – are under serious threat from pollution, industrial agriculture and climate change.

Genetic data can help protect these creatures by revealing their strengths and vulnerabilities, for example the ability to withstand changing temperatures or susceptibility to certain diseases.

The information, which can also reveal the presence of new species that are not immediately obvious until researchers drill down into their DNA, will be stored in a public database so anyone in the scientific community can draw on this well of knowledge to inform their research.

====== 472 ========

70% OF WORLD’S LAST REMAINING WILDERNESS IN JUST FIVE COUNTRIES, RESEARCH REVEALS

More than 70 per cent of our planet’s remaining areas of wilderness are contained in just five countries and are at the mercy of political decisions regarding their future, new research has warned.

Urgent international action is required to ensure the preservation of these last pockets of intact ecosystems, the study says, which calls for mandated conservation targets.

The places where the greatest remaining tracts of wilderness containing mixes of species at near-natural levels of abundance were identified as being in Russia, Canada, Australia, the US and Brazil.

Produced by the University of Queensland (UQ) and the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), the study published in the journal Nature, says these areas are “increasingly important buffers against changing conditions… Yet they aren’t an explicit target in international policy frameworks."

The study also examines the huge future value these areas are likely to have for our planet.

“They are also the only areas supporting the ecological processes that sustain biodiversity over evolutionary timescales,” it says. “As such, they are important reservoirs of genetic information, and act as reference areas for efforts to re-wild degraded land and seascapes.”

Professor James Watson, from UQ’s School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, said the work provides the first full global picture of how little wilderness remains, and he was alarmed at the results.

“A century ago, only 15 per cent of the Earth’s surface was used by humans to grow crops and raise livestock,” he said. “Today, more than 77 per cent of land – excluding Antarctica – and 87 per cent of the ocean has been modified by the direct effects of human activities. It might be hard to believe, but between 1993 and 2009, an area of terrestrial wilderness larger than India – a staggering 3.3 million square kilometres – was lost to human settlement, farming, mining and other pressures.”

UQ Postdoctoral Research Fellow James Allan said the world’s remaining wilderness could only be protected if its importance was recognised in international policy.

“Some wilderness areas are protected under national legislation, but in most nations, these areas are not formally defined, mapped or protected,” he said. "There is nothing to hold nations, industry, society or communities to account for long-term conservation. We need the immediate establishment of bold wilderness targets -- specifically those aimed at conserving biodiversity, avoiding dangerous climate change and achieving sustainable development.”

“One obvious intervention these nations can prioritise is establishing protected areas in ways that would slow the impacts of industrial activity on the larger landscape or seascape,” Prof Watson said. “We have lost so much already, so we must grasp this opportunity to secure the last remaining wilderness before it disappears forever.”

====== 473 ========

ANCIENT ART OF FREE MINING IN THE FOREST OF DEAN COULD SOLVE A VERY MODERN PROBLEM

My guide Iain Jamieson is applying mindfulness techniques to a situation I never thought to find myself in. It’s a Tuesday evening in October, deep in the Forest of Dean. It’s a clear night. The smell of autumn is in the air. Stars gaze down on woodland alive with animals unseen. Drinking tea made on a coal-burning stove in the middle of a small secret clearing, while the notorious local wild boar lurk nearby, feels like a big enough adventure for me.

But now I’m at the bottom of Morse’s Level, a Victorian coal mine, crawling my way to the seam. For a while, the tunnel is high enough to stand in, then it shrinks away to two-thirds my height. I’ve been banging my head with alarming frequency. I’m not sure if I’m delirious from adrenaline or concussion. I don’t think I can fold myself any smaller but we’ve reached the entrance to a long shaft barely wider than the shoulders of man-mountain Iain. The shaft follows a sharp incline upwards. The seam is at the other end of it.

Iain’s fellow miners Adam Taylor and Paul Baverstock have gone on ahead. Their helmet lamps illuminate the way as they look down on us. The dull brown sandstone walls, floor and ceiling are slick with moisture. The wooden posts lining the tunnel look suddenly insubstantial. Small stones skitter down the chute as the men shift position above. If this were a film, it would be the harbinger of a landslide.

“It opens out at the top,” Adam tells me. I’m beginning to understand that “opens out” is a relative term down here. I can see he is almost bent double. “Start by putting your left knee up on the ledge,” he suggests. “Then grab that post and pull yourself in.”

“I can’t,” I say, collapsing on to my backside on the muddy clay floor. I look back along it in the direction we came. I can’t see anything beyond the circle cast by my lamp. I certainly can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel.

Iain, whose head almost touches the ceiling though we’re squatting like yogis, gets down on all fours. “You can stand on my back,” he says.

The thought of using him as a footstool makes me feel ashamed and I make one last effort to haul myself into the shaft, channelling Shelley Winters facing the flooded engine room in The Poseidon Adventure. Grunting with the effort, I drag myself forwards. As I scramble up, another film scene flashes into my mind. The ghost girl climbing the walls of the well in The Ring Two, using her knees and elbows. It makes me move much faster.

As I suspected, there is no “opening out” at the top. I can’t sit up. The ceiling is horribly close and looks bloody heavy. But Adam and Paul have prepared a special treat for me. A lump of coal stands proud of the seam. Everything around it is already chipped away so that it will fall with one good whack. Paul hands me a pick.

“Give it some welly.” I give it some serious welly but the only thing that happens is I get a shower of cold wet coal chips in the face. I drop an F-bomb.

“She speaks French,” someone observes. I speak some more French until the chunk finally falls at my feet. I can find nothing but more expletives to describe the delight of it.

“There you are,” says Iain. “That coal you’re holding hasn’t been seen for millions of years. Three hundred million years. And more people have stood on the top of Everest than have been down here and seen this.”

He reminds me to look around. This is a view I may not see again. I take a proper look at the seam, 50 centimetres thick, glittering darkly. It’s as strange and wondrous as any mountaintop. The lump of coal I’ve liberated is the size and shape of a travel iron and jagged like a flint. I’m taking it home. Then Adam tells me how we’re going to get back to the surface. He points out our exit. “Stick both your arms through first, like you’re diving.”

Looking at an opening barely bigger than the hole at the centre of a loo seat, I see my own personal Everest may still be ahead of me.

* * *

The Forest of Dean coalfield, which lies beneath the Forest of Dean, nestled between the rivers Severn and Wye, is one of Britain’s smallest coalfields. It is unique for the practice of free mining, which is vastly different to industrial mining. The free mining of coal, stone and iron ore in the forest region predates the Romans; it is a practice that is deeply tied to place, and requires a specialist knowledge of the land and its archaeology.

Free mining originated in the reign of Edward I. In the 13th century, miners played an important part in many of Edward’s military campaigns. After a hundred men from the forest helped end the siege of Berwick-upon-Tweed by undermining the castle with their tunnelling, Edward rewarded them with “free mining” status, bestowing upon them the right to mine anywhere in the forest (except beneath churchyards, orchards and gardens).

To become a free miner, you had to be born within the St Briavels Hundred (pronounced St Brevels), the boundaries of which roughly corresponded to the boundaries of the forest itself. You had to be male, be over 21, and to have worked in someone else’s mine for a year and a day. You could then apply to the crown’s representative, the deputy gaveller (perhaps a corruption of “gale giver”), to take out what is known as a “gale”. According to a document dated 1673, a gale was defined thus: “The miner shall have as much space to work and store his materials as he can throw a stone.”

Mining has long been at the heart of the Forest of Dean’s industry. Not just coal but iron ore, stone and ochre. By the 19th century, there were more Foresters working underground than above it. There’s even a theory that the impenetrable Forest accent has its origins in the mine, from when candles were still the only light source. How do you carry a candle when you need both hands free to crawl through a tiny shaft or chip away at a seam? The solution? A sticky and a nelly. A sticky was, quite literally, a stick. The nelly was a piece of clay moulded into a candleholder at the end of that stick, which the miner would then hold in the corner of his mouth to light the coal face as he worked. Try saying anything while holding a stick in the corner of your mouth. You’re talking Forest of Dean.

* * *

Half a millennium after Edward I, when the Industrial Revolution led to an increased demand for iron and coal, the free miners came into conflict with powerful outside mining interests eager to exploit the forest’s reserves. To protect the miners, the Dean Forest (Mines) Act of 1838, restated the free mining rules. That same year, free miner George Morse, took out the gale that would become Morse’s Level.

Today, Morse’s Level and its sister mine, Wallsend, are headed up by Mike Howell and Phil Schwarz, both Foresters born and bred. Phil’s grandfather and great-grandfather were both miners. Mike also comes from a mining family. His father was deputy gaveller. His son Daniel currently holds the role.

Mike and Phil, both white-haired and now in their sixties, were school friends and caving buddies. They didn’t follow their forefathers straight into mining but took it up as hobby in the 1970s. They took over Morse’s Level – where they had volunteered – in 1978. “You could call it a management buyout,” Mike says. They went to mining college to learn about safety and explosives and get their deputies’ papers.

All the men who work Morse’s Level and Wallsend today are volunteers. Their day jobs vary widely. Paul is an engineer, specialising in the removal of asbestos. He’s worked all over the world and has a hair-rising collection of stories about asbestos found in public places. Ed Morgan Dyer, who hails from the Welsh Valleys, is a cobbler. With an extravagant Edwardian-style moustache and an Australian miner’s hat, he certainly looks the part. Rob Rutsch maintains industrial printers for Xerox. Adam is an accountant. Like Mike and Phil, several of the men were cavers before they became miners. Paul is a member of the Gloucestershire Cave Rescue Group. What they all have in common is that after one trip down a mine they were hooked by the adrenaline and the weird magic of the coal seam

“It’s a different world down there,” says Paul.

The men come to the mine on Tuesday evenings and all day on Saturdays. “When the missus allows.” On this particular Tuesday evening, back at Wallsend, the operational centre – AKA where the tea is made – there’s a cart full of coal ready to come to the surface.

The men are proud of their new grading machine, rescued from a disused mine and refurbished and reassembled with care. A generator is fired up and a winch pulls the full cart out of the mine to a platform above the grader. John Smith and Adam stand at the top, ready to receive it.

The miners don ear defenders and gather round. At the top, John and Adam scoop buckets from the cart. At the bottom, the others pluck bigger pieces from the belt before they can be shaken smaller. The rattling makes conversation impossible. Everyone concentrates hard on the job for the few noisy minutes it takes to empty the cart. At the end, the coal is separated into four grades. From the prized “lumpy” through “peas” to the very smallest parts, hardly more than dust, which could be pressed into briquettes. The miners are looking into the possibility of buying a machine to do just that.

With the coal sorted, it’s time for tea. It doesn’t take long for the kettle to boil on the old stove in the hut. “This is steam coal,” Phil explains. “The kind they used in the trains. It gets so hot it can melt an iron grate.” An iron grate, buckled as though it were plastic, is presented as evidence.

The tea is pure Assam. “Tesco’s Finest,” Adam points out, as he arranges the pristine mugs on a table in the open air. Tonight there’s homemade cake to go with the biscuits and the giant marshmallows that are a regular feature of teatime at Wallsend. On Saturdays, the day is broken with a run to the local chip shop for lunch. The jokes are gentle. Paul arrived early tonight. He used the opportunity to creep up on John, who was quietly mending a wall further up the hill, and impersonate a wild boar to frighten him.

“I knew it was him all along,” John protests.

Nobody wants to meet a real wild boar in the dark. Since a handful were illegally released into the forest in the 1990s, followed by another 60 in 2004, their number has swollen to more than a thousand. Earlier this year, a dog walker had the tip of his finger bitten off in a particularly unfortunate boar encounter. Everyone would prefer to see the otters, which Paul is certain have infiltrated the tunnels at Morse’s Level. He’s seen footprints in the mud underground. They might have come in via the culvert that occasionally floods the mine.

From boars to Brexit. The Forest of Dean voted “out” in the 2016 EU referendum. No one here was surprised. The perception of some locals is that EU immigration without a commensurate increase in funding for services has hit the forest hard. Paul describes how his wife waited four weeks to see a GP. He doesn’t blame EU migrants though. They’re only coming to work. They’re contributing too.

Adam is pro-Brexit. He believes that EU tariffs keep the brakes on British business. He sees the evidence of it in his work in finance. Whatever they think of Adam’s view on trade tariffs, everyone agrees that the Brexit negotiations are a shambles.

“No one over 65 should have been allowed to vote,” says Paul. One of the older guys at the mine tonight, Rob Rutsch, agrees. “It’s not our future that’s at stake,” he says. “It’s not going to affect us in the same way as it is the young people.”

“Let’s talk about something else,” someone suggests. The conversation moves to organ transplantation and deemed consent. Once again, opinion is split. Paul thinks the system should remain as it is, with people happy to be donors opting in. Iain is for opt out.

“When you’re dead, whatever it is that makes you you is gone,” he says.

Do they ever worry about dying in the mine? I wonder. I know I did, down there in the dark and the wet, knowing that if something happened, even if we got back to the surface, we were miles from the nearest town down a road that nobody drives unless they have to.

Phil assures me there’s no need to worry. In the long history of the mines at Morse’s Level and Wallsend, only two people have been killed. “Hundreds of years ago.” Though Phil then recalls a recent nasty rock fall that completely blocked a tunnel the men had been working only hours before. “If it had happened while we were in there…” Then there’s the danger of flooding. And black damp.

“Which isn’t damp at all,” Phil explains. “It comes from dampf, the German word for vapour.” Phil’s father is Austrian. Black damp is an excess of carbon dioxide and nitrogen, which reduces the available oxygen in the air. It’s caused by poor ventilation and is a particular problem in mines that have lain unused for any length of time. Coal exposed to air begins to absorb oxygen. How do you know if you’ve got black damp? You can’t see it. You can’t smell it.

There must be fancy alarms for it now, I suggest. Iain shows me the modern-day free miner’s method for staying safe. It’s remarkably low-tech. “You carry a candle,” he says. “So long as the flame stays good, you’re OK. It’s the perfect system. No batteries to run out.”

Phil explains the other official safety measures. The mines are regularly visited by official inspectors. Meanwhile, in the hut is a panel from which dangle fobs carved with the names of every miner. “You’re supposed to move your fob from one end of the board to the other, to show that you’re down the mine so no one gets left behind. They’re always forgetting,” Phil tuts. Above the safety board, a garish effigy of Thatcher hangs by her neck from a nail.

The conversation turns to other visitors. In the summer, a group of German miners dropped by. They brought German biscuits and an elaborate silver-headed ceremonial pick. A return visit is planned for next year. More recently, a descendant of George Morse came to the mine. His great-great-great granddaughter Makere Stewart-Harawira is a New Zealander of Forest, Scottish and Māori descent, currently living in Canada. When she visited the forest to find out more about her ancestry, the miners took her down to the seam at Morse’s’ Level.

“She was a bit cagey about what it is she does,” says Phil. “Then we found out she’s a professor of climate change.”

Specifically, she’s professor of indigenous, environmental and global studies, social justice and international studies in education specialisation at the University of Alberta where her current area of research is described as “Intersections of Sustainability. Collaborative Research Network on Water Governance, Climate Change and Traditional Communities”.

“She got emotional when she saw the mine though,” says Phil.

It’s easy to understand why. The history in this place is palpable. At Wallsend, 200 miners once worked the seam. Not just men but women and children too. Many of the shafts were so small, they could only have been worked by kids. Twelve-hour days. Six days a week.

Paul talks about finding the print of a hobnail boot in a disused level and next to it a footprint. A bare footprint. A child’s footprint. Child labour was used extensively until it was made illegal in 1842. Even then, an 11-year-old was still counted as an adult. There were pit ponies at Wallsend too.

“We’ve got a list of their names,” says Adam. “From when the mine was shut and they came up for auction. Some of them lived their whole lives underground.” There’s a moment of quiet. Half an hour on Morse’s Level was enough to leave me delirious. The idea of a lifetime. Never seeing the sun…

It’s getting late. Adam fills a washing up bowl with more hot water. “Don’t forget your eggs,” he says, as other miners wash their hands and faces and get ready to go home. Adam and his wife keep rescue hens. They’re prolific layers. “I’m sick of eggs,” he says. The other miners have all come prepared with empty egg boxes to exchange for a fresh half dozen. Everyone assures me that the eggs are delicious and I’m thrilled to receive a box of my own.

“Still got the shit on them though,” someone complains. “Where’s the swear box?” another miner asks.

I think I owe the swear box more money than anyone else here tonight. There’s an underlying respect and old-fashioned gentleness in the way the men talk to each other, perhaps born of the fact that underground each man holds the other men’s lives in his hands. This is a true gentleman's club, I suggest. “More like Last of the Summer Mine,” says Iain.

***

Later, in a nearby pub, Mike Howell expresses his concerns for the future. Morse’s Level and Wallsend have weathered centuries of change. The 1838 act that restated the free miners’ rights also allowed them to sell their gales to persons other than other free miners. It saw major industry swoop on the forest and introduce deep mining. By the 1920s, many of those mines were already deemed too expensive to be viable. The last deep mine was closed in 1965.

When Labour nationalised coal in 1947, the rights of the free miners were recognised with a simple token licence system but with privatisation in 1994, the Coal Authority insisted that the free miners needed planning permission and tried to impose a new system that would have cost £2,000 per mine. With the help of the Forestry Commission and the deputy gaveller, the licence amount was reduced to £50 in 1997. All the same, the mines continued to close.

Today there are only seven working coal mines in the Forest of Dean. The average age of the free miners edges ever higher. Meanwhile, the number of people eligible to take out a gale is falling as it gets harder to be born in the right place. The local maternity unit has been closed down and Mike talks of local women being “bullied” into having their babies at Gloucester Royal Hospital, some 15 miles away. In any case it seems the forest’s sons don’t wish to follow their fathers underground and though in 2010 Elaine Morman won the right to become the first female free miner (she mines ochre), she remains in a minority of one.

The latest challenge to the centuries-old tradition isn’t financial or demographic. It’s environmental. Defra, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, is set to publish a comprehensive clean air strategy to further tackle air pollution, in anticipation of a new Clean Air Act. In preparation, Defra seeks to “understand the impact of phasing out the sale of the most polluting mineral fuels, such as bituminous house coal”.

Mike shows me an email he’s written to Defra, asking how a new Clean Air Act would impact the free miners in particular. “The Forest of Dean free miners’ acts and rights must be considered in any new arrangement... The coal we dig is not smokeless, and if we have no market for our coal then our ancient rights and the value of our coal reserves will be destroyed.

“These reserves for each mine are valued at several million pounds per gale and this must be considered in any future government legislation. The protection of our rights is very important from a historical and monetary point of view.”

Mike has never seen a penny of profit from Morse’s Level or Wallsend. “I do this for a couple of bags of coal a year,” he says.

“I get it,” he tells me. “No one wants to live in a polluted world. But they’ll go after things like this [free mining] because it’s easy. Because we’re small. I saw it when I worked in engineering. People spend days arguing about the little things because no one wants to tackle the big stuff. Germany still gets 40 per cent of its energy from coal and it’s the nastiest, smelliest coal you can find. What’s being done about that? Bureaucrats are good at solving the small problems. The big problems? Nobody wants to know.

“If someone would just engage their brain about this act and see that there are still country communities which rely on coal. We’re not making as much pollution as 50 London taxis still running on diesel or one shipload of smokeless fuel coming from overseas. There are no air miles on our coal. They’re going to destroy our heritage for so little gain.”

We’re not making as much pollution as 50 London taxis still running on diesel or one shipload of smokeless fuel coming from overseas. There are no air miles on our coal

At the very height of its output at the beginning of the 20th century, the Forest of Dean coalfield produced a million tonnes a year (out of a UK total of about 300 million). These days, Mike estimates that the total output of all the mines in the Forest is less than 500 tons a year. Phil has calculated that equates to 0.0000067 per cent of the world total.

Defra has yet to respond.

As the night draws to a close, Phil pulls out his iPad to look through his photographs of the mine through the years. The wifi in the pub is spotty but Phil eventually finds photographs of the auction catalogue with the list of names of the last pit ponies to have worked Wallsend. “Polly. Black Dolly. Kit. Beauty. Dolly. Spider. Darkey. Bessie. Mousey…”

What became of them? I wonder. Did they go straight to another pit or did the auction mark the beginning of a better life above ground?

Phil brings up more photographs of the mine in its heyday. No Assam. No marshmallows. The faces of these miners are pinched and tired. “Me going down the mines when I don’t have to do it for a living,” Phil muses as the barman calls last orders. “My grandfather must be rolling in his grave.”

Next day, the forest I’ve known since I was a child growing up in nearby Gloucester looks different. There’s a definite wisp of coal smoke in the air. But for how much longer? I wonder if free mining in the forest is facing an inevitable end. It’s simply out of time.

Interestingly, Makere Stewart-Harawira thinks not. In an email she told me: “My work, my research, my passion is about water, energy and the climate catastrophe that we are now in... And the worst culprit is coal… But here is what I know...

“Free mining is also a small, local economy that helps maintain some of the families in the Forest of Dean today... There are ways of reducing the carbon emissions that are emitted in the local burning of these coals. Research regarding these methods, some of which involve processes for which the patents are now freely available… could be funded by the government as part of its commitment to carbon emission reduction as well as its commitment to supporting small local economies. The free mining activities of the Forest of Dean could potentially become one model for how we negotiate the tension between carbon emission reduction and the need to support local, autonomous economies. I’m passionate about helping to explore and promote that in any way that I can.”

I believe Professor Stewart-Harawira is right. The mines and the forest itself have a unique symbiotic relationship. This volunteer mining thing is not just “Last of the Summer Mine” as Iain had joked. To understand what it really means to mine the coal that has fired centuries of change is humbling. It’s a heritage worth honouring. The miners of Morse’s Level and Wallsend are preserving not only a tradition but also a genuine emotional connection to the people who went before them and to the very land itself. I think Phil’s miner grandfather would have been proud of him for that.

====== 474 ========

BREAKING NEWS STORIES WITHIN THE UK

====== 475 ========

LATEST WORLD NEWS AND EVENTS

Women tell of horrors of war where rape was used as a weapon

'He took me by force. I did not know he was HIV positive. They did not tell me anything'

====== 476 ========

EUROPE

Germany abolishes death penalty in public vote

'There was a fear if a terrible crime was committed... then the vote could do the wrong way," local politician says

====== 477 ========

LATEST BUSINESS INFORMATION, NEWS AND EVENTS

====== 478 ========

MIDTERMS 2018

====== 479 ========

AMERICAS

====== 480 ========

PEOPLE

====== 481 ========

LATEST SCIENCE NEWS AND INFORMATION

====== 482 ========

NEWS

====== 483 ========

VIDEO EXPLAINERS

====== 484 ========

NEWS VIDEOS

Watch May's statement to MPs in full after resignations over Brexit

Theresa May was forced to defend her Brexit deal as she addressed parliament after key cabinet ministers Dominic Raab and Esther McVey resigned in protest.

====== 485 ========

PEOPLE AND CULTURE VIDEOS

Remembering Stephen Colbert's 2006 Correspondents' Dinner speech

‘I believe the government that governs best is the government that governs least, and by these standards we have set up a fabulous government in Iraq’

====== 486 ========

SPORT VIDEOS

Ronaldo heads himself into history and Portugal to verge of last-16

Portugal 1-0 Morocco: The Real Madrid star became the topscoring European in internationals as he headed the Selecao to the brink of qualification

====== 487 ========

BREXIT IS THE EQUIVALENT OF A MAJOR DEFEAT IN WAR

When a majority of the British people voted to leave the EU in 2016, I was struck by the similarity between the Brexiteers’ plans for their perilous voyage and those of Edward Lear’s characters in The Jumblies as they set to sea in their sieve. The analogy became more apt as the proponents of Brexit showed that they did not know nor care very much about the nature of the world into which they were proposing to sail other than to hope that everything would be alright on the night.

The Jumblies, like the Brexiteers, were swift to dismiss critical comment predicting a disastrous end to their venture, saying: “Our sieve ain’t big / But we don’t care a button, we don’t care a fig! / In a sieve we’ll go to sea!”

The water did indeed come in, but the Jumblies were not downhearted “because they wrapped their feet / in pinky paper all folded neat”. For extra safety, they pass the night in a crockery jar where they sang of their wisdom as they set their pea-green sail for lands where, among other things, they secured an owl, a pig and some green-Jack-daws, and “a lovely monkey with lollipop paws”.

The Brexiteers’ alternative to the EU is just as imaginary as that described by Lear as a habitation for the Jumblies. The reason why the Leavers have failed to negotiate the sort of settlement they said they wanted from the EU is simple: what they said in 2016 was based on the proposition that the EU got more out Britain than Britain got out of the EU. Had this been true, the British departure would be easy enough, because Britain could genuinely have threatened to walk away. But because Britain needs the EU more than vice versa, the outcome of the negotiations were always going to be heavily skewed in favour of Brussels.

Yet this simple proposition evidently eluded Dominic Raab, David Davis, Boris Johnson and the other Leavers who departed from the cabinet claiming that Britain was being blackmailed and bullied into submission. Successful negotiations always reflect the balance of power between the negotiating parties and it is puerile to believe that the settlement, which the EU leaders will or will not agree to in the next few days, was determined by a failure of will by Theresa May or subtle treachery by Remain-sympathising civil servants.

It is easy and right to deride the Leavers for their wishful thinking and inability to calculate the true balance of power between Britain and its neighbours. This is the same ruinous mistake made by so many populist-nationalist leaders down the decades. The great flaw of nationalists everywhere is an assumption that their nation has greater political, economic and military potential – and their rivals less – than is really the case.

Exaggerated ideas of national superiority have fuelled the most self-destructive policy mistakes of modern European history. They led to France declaring war on Prussia in 1870 and Germany choosing to fight wars on two fronts in both World Wars. American and British leaders blithely intervened in Afghanistan and Iraq this century in total ignorance of the real odds against their success.

Such military examples are apposite because Britain’s withdrawal from the EU is the equivalent of a major defeat in war. Suppose, hypothetically, that Britain fought and lost a military conflict with a rival European power, then the departure of Britain from the EU might well be demanded by the victor as a way of ensuring that Britain was permanently weakened.

What foreign enemies failed to accomplish against the British state for centuries may soon be inflicted by the modern day Jumblies. Negotiations now completed are at best an attempt to mitigate the extent of the British loss and all scenarios point to a country less well-off and influential than if it had stayed in the EU.

The best argument for Brexit has little to do with political power or economic success. The demand for national self-determination has been behind the most progressive developments in the world over the last century since the break-up of the German, Austro-Habsburg and Ottoman empires after 1918, and the British and French empires after 1945.

Newly emergent nation states invariably blame former imperial masters for their economic, political and social troubles. Usually there is a lot in this claim, though not as much as the claimants pretend. In this context, there is nothing surprising in the fact the British complaints against Brussels echo those made by the Irish and the Indians against London when they fought, with rather more reason, for their independence.

This comparison will not appeal to hardcore Leavers because of their nostalgia for a state of the world at home and abroad that, if it existed at all, was briefly present in the 1950s. British society of that era may have some aspects that were superior to the present, as well as many that were worse, but in either case they lie in the past and cannot be recreated.

One of the many weird characteristics of the Leave leaders is their frequent references to a mythical version of British history, featuring “vassalage” and humiliating treaties signed by King John at the beginning of the 13th century. One Brexiteer even attacked the proposed EU agreement as the most humiliating since Charles II agreed the Treaty of Dover with Louis XIV in return for a heavy subsidy in 1670.

But these historical nuggets are really only there for adornment. For all the talk about “Britain standing alone”, Britain invariably made every effort to do no such thing. British success against Napoleon, the Kaiser and Hitler were based on the Royal Navy preventing defeat, while Britain built up overwhelmingly powerful alliances against the enemy of the day. The last time the country was as bereft of continental allies as it is today was during the American War of Independence at the end of 18th century.

Contemporary English populist nationalism has much in common with similar movements in Europe and the US: hostility to immigrants and minority communities combined with a sense of lost identity and control, which seems to be the inevitable consequence of globalisation.

For globalisation in this century is turning out to be as destructive to the political and social status quo as the Industrial Revolution was in the 19th century. Metropolitan areas, primarily urban, that are plugged into the global economy do well, while everybody else falls behind or does badly. The same pattern is repeated everywhere from Arkansas to the Isle of Thanet and from Saxony and the rural hinterland of Damascus.

In one respect, the Brexiteers are more revolutionary – and perhaps more dangerous – than Donald Trump. Despite his foaming rhetoric, Trump has done little for his acolytes and has instead implemented a traditional, if toxic, Republican programme of reducing taxes on the rich, deregulating Wall Street and business, and targeting minorities and the poor. Only in Britain has the populist-nationalist surge, almost by accident, come close to producing revolutionary change by propelling the British state in directions so new and uncharted that even the Jumblies might have been deterred from going there.

====== 488 ========

'WE DON’T NEED TO ASK WHY YOUNG WOMEN ARE SUFFERING MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS – IT’S A DIRECT RESULT OF THE PATRIARCHY'

Young women are suffering a mental health crisis.

Nearly one in four has a mental illness, say the latest figures from NHS Digital. Analysing the data of 9,000 young people, the results showed that girls between the age of 17 and 19 were twice as likely as men to encounter depression and anxiety. An eye-opening comparison.

The review also found that children aged 11 to 19 who had mental health problems were more likely to be social media users. A third of those users spent over four hours a day on these platforms. It’s hardly surprising. Comparison, after all, is the thief of joy. Being bombarded daily with images of gym-sculpted bodies will do this to someone – that’s what advertising has always preyed on.

Social media is not the only culprit here.

This week also heralded the news that life expectancy for women in the poorest areas of England is falling due to insufficient care for preventable and treatable diseases. The gulf between wealthy and poor women is widening on an annual basis.

To compound this, women’s health issues are often overlooked.

The British Heart Foundation has just revealed that more than 8,200 women in England and Wales who died from heart attacks over the course of a decade could have survived if they’d had the same level of care as men. A BBC documentary this week revealed the catastrophic and under-researched mental health impact of the contraceptive pill. For the very same reasons, production of a male equivalent was halted.

With all this to contend with, is it any wonder young women are feeling the strain?

For many years, scientists couldn’t pinpoint why African Americans had such notably higher blood pressure than Caucasians – with black people having among the highest blood pressure in the world. Studies soon began to investigate this in conjunction with racial discrimination.

In 2006, researchers found a correlation between racism and gender-related vigilance (anticipatory stress), and cardiovascular risk – the latter increasing where the former was most present. In 2013, researchers at John Hopkins University released findings of their analysis of 266 patients in urban health clinics in Baltimore between 2003 and 2005. They found that just thinking about race resulted in increased blood pressure.

Researchers at Northwestern University followed more than 2,000 African Americans over the course of 25 years from 1985 living in racially divided neighbourhoods in Chicago, Minneapolis, Birmingham (Alabama) and Oakland. Those who had moved into more racially integrated neighbourhoods during this time had significantly lower blood pressure than those who remained in divided ones. They concluded that the raised markers in those who stayed could translate directly to thousands of heart attacks and strokes.

There’s no doubt about it, prejudice makes you ill.

We also know that abuse – the suffering or even the witnessing of – can be seen in the makeup of people’s very DNA. This year, Harvard published the results of a study that looked at men who had been abused as children. They found chemical markers in them that were non-existent in those who hadn’t suffered abuse. This physical effect of this trauma was then found in offspring.

It thus seems logical that young women today having impossible beauty ideals thrusted at them from their palms, being at constant threat of misogyny and sexual violence, facing racial discrimination and having their appearances dissected when they speak out against sexual assault… might also then develop severe mental health issues?

Instead of after-the-fact mental health treatment and kid gloves, we need to see systemic legal and social change that targets the heart of these problems: classing malicious sexist acts against women as hate crimes, injecting more funding into women’s medical care, teaching consent and gender issues to children from a young age, investigating how we can target online bullying and the impact of social media upon self-esteem.

Patriarchy is a plague upon women. Its toxicity is destroying their mental and physical health, so why are we still twiddling our thumbs wondering what could possibly be the cause of the suffering? The answer is writ large. These links are too close for us to ignore.

====== 489 ========

JOHN CHAU’S SAD DEATH SHOULD BE A WAKE-UP CALL TO ALL MISSIONARIES TARGETING UNCONTACTED TRIBES

As John Chau stepped ashore on North Sentinel Island, he was met by angry tribesmen who felled him with poison arrows. The next day, they buried his body further down the beach. The foolhardy 27-year-old American, a self-styled adventurer and evangelical missionary, had already tried to contact the inhabitants of this remote atoll in the Andaman Islands a few days earlier, paying local fisherman to break the law and ferry him there. He left “gifts” of a pair of scissors, safety pins and a plastic football.

Crass or what? This was an act of cultural imperialism and insane arrogance, assuming that people whose descendants can be traced back 70,000 years would enjoy life more kicking a manmade ball and pinning clothes on their naked bodies. I want to weep at the outcome of this disastrous act of folly – and not just because of the death of Chau, which is regrettable, even while being avoidable and predictable. I despair because here’s another example of two of the worse kinds of environmental pollution: aggressive pushing of faith to another culture and the introduction of “gifts” which undermine their way of life.

People from our developed world can’t stand the idea that some tribes still live in total solitude, with their own mysterious customs and language, who refuse to integrate with the rest of us. High-end travel companies offer extreme adventure tourism to remote parts of the Amazon and Africa, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea: places where they enable rich adventurers to get up close with people who still live close to nature, untainted by the distractions and detritus of our western world. It’s called “experiential tourism”. Something rich kids can tick off a bucket list.

John Chau attended a Christian high school in Vancouver and the evangelical Oral Roberts University in Oklahoma. He described himself as a missionary and frequently posted about his escapades on social media. He’d already written that the Andaman and Nicobar Islands were his “must-do adventure”, knowing that the Indian government had placed the islands out of bounds, and that only a few academics have ever been allowed permits. Tourism is banned, as contact with the tribe would expose them to disease – even a bout of the flu could kill people whose immune systems are not accustomed to the same infections people from other parts of the world catch routinely.

The four main groups of indigenous people in the surrounding area are all under threat from development, such as new roads encroaching into the forests, and the risks of eating Indian food or having sex with outsiders. In 2009, one tribe, the Onge, suffered a catastrophe when men drank from canisters washed up on the beach, thinking they contained alcohol. Instead, the toxic chemicals killed eight people, and 13 others were seriously ill. Local Indian government officials negotiated with the tribal leaders to persuade them to allow the women who had lost husbands to remarry as the tribe had shrunk to less than 100 members.

In 2011, a British-based academic managed to compile a dictionary of the ancient languages spoken by four of the tribes in the Andaman Islands, and since then two of them have become extinct. Three of the four groups surveyed have suffered illnesses and deaths after coming into contact with outsiders. Only the Sentinelese – the ones John Chau was so determined to visit – remain untainted.

A few years ago I spent a couple of weeks in Papua New Guinea, and was taken by boat to the remote outer islands. The people I met had no currency, but bartered using shells. They had all the food they needed growing in abundance and the fish were plentiful.

Sadly, missionaries might have brought medicine and education to parts of PNG, but western culture has only brought violence and unrest to places like the capital, Port Moresby.

The assumption that bringing Christ’s word via the Bible to remote tribes will enrich the lives of isolated tribes is hard to stomach, even though evangelicals claim that only 14 per cent of their work is in places where Christianity is not the dominant faith. John Chau claimed he wanted to introduce Christ to the Sentinelese – but why would their own culture not include a deity, a belief in the afterlife or some sense of fulfilling spirituality? Why would his evangelical creed be superior or necessary?

The Sentinelese are one of the last pre-Neolithic tribes left on the planet, with a lifestyle and culture that has remained unchanged for longer than any in Europe or America. They have consistently repelled invaders. A group of anthropologists attempted to get up close and personal in 1970, and were treated to a live sex show. Four years later, another group were met with poison arrows.

John Chau wrote to his parents before his visit: “I think it’s worth it to declare Jesus to these people. Please do not get angry at them or at God if I get killed”. Now, his friends are describing Chau as a “martyr” – hardly. His behaviour was the worst advertisement for Christianity you could imagine, but sadly it’s not even that unusual.

A few years ago, one missionary in Irian Jaya encountered a similar reception from locals. He went back to the US and raised money for a helicopter to embark on “aerial evangelisation”, shouting the gospel from a loudspeaker. He was met with a barrage of poisoned arrows and abandoned his mission.

One evangelical missionary has written: “It’s true we destroy certain things in cultures just as doctors must destroy certain things in a human body if a patient is to survive”. Why can’t these zealots accept that some non-believers do not need the words of Jesus or plastic footballs?

====== 490 ========

US AGENTS FIRE TEAR GAS AT MIGRANTS SEEKING TO BREACH US-MEXICO BORDER

US agents have fired tear gas at Central American migrants, after some tried to breach the busiest border separating Mexico and the United States.

Officers from US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) fired or threw the gas after a handful of migrants sought to open a small hole in concertina wire at a gap on the Mexican side of a levee. Images showed the migrants – men, women and children – running from the smoke. For a time, they also suspended all crossings at the world's busiest land border.

Honduran migrant Ana Zuniga, 23, told the Associated Press it was at that point she saw the US agents fire the tear gas, which enveloped some of the migrants. “We ran, but when you run the gas asphyxiates you more,” she told the AP, while cradling her three-year-old daughter Valery in her arms.

Earlier, the CBC said all crossings at the busiest port of entry on the US-Mexico border have been suspended, after hundreds of Central American migrants pushed past a blockade of Mexican police. Later, it reopened the facility for pedestrian crossings.

Television footage showed hundreds of migrants storming towards the US border after pushing their way past the officers. There were no reports of anyone being hurt, or of any of the migrants committing violence.

The agency said both vehicle and foot crossings had been suspended at the San Ysidro port of entry hundreds of migrants gathered at the busy crossing point, seeking to apply for asylum in the US.

“Southbound lanes into Mexico at the San Ysidro port of entry are currently closed. Updates will be provided,” the CBC’s San Diego office said on Twitter at around noon local time. It subsequently tweeted to say northbound vehicles, along with all foot crossings, had also been halted.

The move came after Donald Trump suggested over the weekend that Mexico had agreed a deal to allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts. The Washington Post had quoted Mexico’s incoming interior minister Olga Sanchez to say president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution”.

Hours later, the newspaper said she had denied any deal had been done, saying: “There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government.”

Earlier on Sunday, hundreds of Central American migrants, most of the them countries such as Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala raced towards the US border, making their way around or through a blockade of Mexican police officers.

The Associated Press said around 5,000 migrants have been camped in and around a sports complex in Tijuana after making their way through Mexico in recent weeks in a series of caravans. Many hope to apply for asylum in the US, but agents at the San Ysidro entry point are processing fewer than 100 asylum petitions a day.

Some of the migrants who went forward Sunday called on each other to remain peaceful. They appeared to easily pass through the Mexican police blockade without using violence, the AP said.

A second line of Mexican police carrying plastic riot shields stood guard outside a Mexican customs and immigration plaza, where the migrants were headed.

That line of police installed tall steel panels behind them outside the Chaparral crossing on the Mexican side of the border, which completely blocked incoming traffic lanes to Mexico.

In recent weeks, Mr Trump has seized on the issue of the migrant as he sought to rally Republicans ahead of the midterms, terming their massing an “invasion” and dispatching thousands of troops to the border. They spent their days laying down rolls of razor wire in a visual display of actions, Democrats and migrants rights activists have dismissed as a political stunt.

Irineo Mujica, who has accompanied the migrants for weeks as part of the aid group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said the aim of Sunday’s march towards the US border was to make the migrants’ plight more visible to the governments of Mexico and the US “We can’t have all these people here,” said Mr Mujica.

Tijuana Mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum on Friday declared a humanitarian crisis in his border city of 1.6m, which he he said was struggling to accommodate the crush of migrants.

====== 491 ========

MEXICO DENIES DOING DEAL WITH TRUMP OVER HOUSING ASYLUM SEEKERS AS 'THIRD SAFE COUNTRY'

Mexico‘s incoming government has denied doing a deal with Donald Trump that would allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts, one of several options the Trump administration has been pursuing in negotiations for months.

The deal was seen as a way to dissuade thousands of Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. In effect, Mexican border towns are already acting as waiting rooms for migrants hoping to start new lives in the US due to bottlenecks at the border.

“There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government,” future Interior Minister Olga Sanchez said in a statement.

Hours earlier, The Washington Post had quoted her as saying that the incoming administration of Andrés Manuel López Obrador had agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution” while the US considered their applications for asylum. Mr Lopez Obrador will take office on 1 December.

The statement said the future government’s principal concern related to the migrants is their well-being while in Mexico.

The Washington Post reported on Saturday that the Trump administration had won support from the Mexican president-elect’s team for a plan dubbed “Remain in Mexico”.

The newspaper also quoted Sanchez as saying: “For now, we have agreed to this policy of Remain in Mexico.”

Sanchez did not explain in the statement why The Washington Post had quoted her as saying there had been agreement.

White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said, “President Trump has developed a strong relationship with the incoming (Lopez) Obrador Administration, and we look forward to working with them on a wide range of issues.”

Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin, described the Remain in Mexico plan as a strategy to take away the ability of migrants to live and work in the US while cases are processed. “The hope is that asylum seekers will not want to live in [Mexico] for months/years and won’t come,” Ms Leutert said via Twitter.

US officials have said for months that they were working with Mexico to find solutions for what they have called a border crisis. One variation, called “Safe Third,” would have denied asylum claims on the grounds that asylum seekers had found haven in Mexico. President Enrique Peña Nieto offered thousands of Central Americans asylum on 26 October if they agreed to remain in southern Mexico. Close to 3,000 migrants took Mexico up on the offer.

Ms Sanchez said Saturday that the next government does not plan for Mexico to become a “third safe country”.

Some 5,000 Central American migrants have arrived in recent days to Tijuana, just south of California, after making their way through Mexico via caravan. The town has declared a humanitarian crisis and asked the UN to intervene while the group lives temporarily inside a sports complex, facing long waits for food and toilets.

Tijuana mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum on Friday said his border city of 1.6 million was struggling to accommodate the influx. Hundreds of Tijuana residents have protested the migrants’ arrival, complaining that recent caravans forced their way into Mexico from Guatemala.

Mr Trump threatened Thursday to shut down the border crossing entirely if his administration determines that Mexico has lost “control” of the situation in Tijuana.

Julieta Vences, a congresswoman from Mr Lopez Obrador’s Morena party who is also president of Mexico’s congressional migrant affairs commission, said that incoming foreign minister Marcelo Ebrard has been discussing with US officials how to handle a deluge of asylum claims at the border.

“They’re going to have to open the borders (for the migrants) to put in the request,” Ms Vences said. “They will also give us dates, on what terms they will receive the (asylum) requests and in the case that they are not beneficiaries of this status, they will have to return here,” Ms Vences said.

She said Mexico needs to examine how to accommodate the migrants without angering locals.

“When they come back, we need to see how ... we can integrate them into an economic activity so that they can develop and not generate conflict with our own communities.”

Local churches and charities have been feeding the migrants, with assistance from state and federal agencies. They have also distributed thousands of blankets, thin mattresses and personal hygiene kits.

Meanwhile, the government of the state of Baja California has identified 7,000 jobs for which migrants could possibly earn income while they await hearings in the US.

Mr Trump took to Twitter again on Saturday to reiterate that he plans to do away with the US catch-and-release system, which allows asylum seekers to work and study sometimes for years while their cases are pending.

“Migrants at the Southern Border will not be allowed into the United States until their claims are individually approved in court,” he wrote. “We only will allow those who come into our Country legally. Other than that our very strong policy is Catch and Detain. No ‘Releasing’ into the US.”

Additional reporting by AP

====== 492 ========

MEXICO TO IMMEDIATELY DEPORT 500 MIGRANTS WHO 'VIOLENTLY AND ILLEGALLY' TRIED TO CROSS US BORDER

Mexico has said it will immediately deport up to 500 migrants from Central America who “violently and illegally” sought to cross the US border – pushing past Mexican people and causing US agents to fire tear gas to disperse them.

The US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agency suspended all crossings at the San Diego-Tijuana entry point, after hundreds of migrants stormed their way through a blockade of Mexican police and a small number sought to open a space in a roll of razor wire.

With the Mexican police overwhelmed, US agents dispersed the migrants by firing or throwing tear gas. Images taken at the location showed clouds of tear gas hanging in the air, and people moving away from the border.

The crossing remained closed for several hours.

“As the demonstrations on the Mexican side reached the border area, some members of the demonstration split off to head towards multiple locations along the border,” the CBP said in a statement.

“Some attempted to enter the US both directly east and west of the border crossing. These attempts to illegally enter the US, and the response to them continue.”

Officials later said they were reopening foot crossings at the entry point, said to be the busiest such place in the world and where 90,000 enter the US every day, most of them day labourers.

Meanwhile, Mexico’s interior ministry said it had retaken control of its side of the border crossing and would, in conjunction with the national institute of migration, the government agency responsible for controlling who is permitted to enter the country, deport up to 500 people “who participated in these violent events”. It said rather than helping the migrants’ objectives, the “provocative acts” had violated “the legal migration framework”.

The Associated Press said around 5,000 migrants have been camped in and around a sports complex in Tijuana after making their way through Mexico in recent weeks in a series of caravans. Many hope to apply for asylum in the US, but agents at the San Ysidro entry point are processing fewer than 100 asylum petitions a day.

The vast majority of the migrants are from countries such as El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, which suffer from the debilitating levels of violence perpetrated by gangs linked to the US drugs trade, and grinding poverty.

Ahead of the midterm elections, Mr Trump seized on the migrants as a means of rallying his supporters and warned of “an invasion”.

Over the weekend, Mr Trump suggested Mexico had agreed a deal to allow asylum-seekers to wait in the country while their claims move through US immigration courts. The Washington Post had quoted Mexico’s incoming interior minister Olga Sanchez to say president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador agreed to allow migrants to stay in Mexico as a “short-term solution”.

Hours later, the newspaper said she had denied any deal had been done, saying: “There is no agreement of any sort between the incoming Mexican government and the US government.

====== 493 ========

CRIMEA: THREE UKRAINE NAVY BOATS CAPTURED BY RUSSIAN FORCES FOLLOWING FIREFIGHT

Russia has seized three Ukrainian navy vessels following a shoot-out in the Black Sea near the Crimean peninsula, prompting the UN Security Council to call an emergency meeting.

The Russian coastguard opened fire on two artillery boats and a tug belonging to Ukraine which it claimed had made an unauthorised passage through Russia’s waters.

Two of the craft, the ​Berdyansk and the Nikopol, were damaged and six crew members injured.

The confrontation took place near the hotly contested Kerch Strait, which separates the peninsula from the Russian mainland.

Russia’s FSB security service confirmed its border patrol boats had seized the Ukrainian naval vessels in the Black Sea and used weapons to force them to stop, Russian news agencies reported.

The FSB said it had been forced to act because the ships had illegally entered its territorial waters, attempted illegal actions, and ignored warnings to stop while manoeuvring dangerously.

“Weapons were used with the aim of forcibly stopping the Ukrainian warships,” the FSB said in a statement circulated to Russian state media.

“As a result, all three Ukrainian naval vessels were seized in the Russian Federation’s territorial waters in the Black Sea.”

Ukrainian authorities said they had given advance notice to the Russians that the vessels would be moving through the strait.

The incident prompted Petro Poroshenko, the Ukrainian president, to push parliament to declare martial law after convening a meeting of his war cabinet.

He said the parliament could decide on Monday whether to approve martial law, which would restrict civil liberties and give state institutions greater power.

The Independent has contacted the FSB and Russia’s defence ministry for comment.

The Kerch Strait is the only passage into the Sea of Azov. The strait is spanned by the recently completed Kerch Bridge, connecting Crimea to Russia. Transit under the bridge has been blocked by a tanker ship, and dozens of cargo ships awaiting passage are stuck.

A 2003 treaty designates the Kerch Strait and Sea of Azov as shared territorial waters but Russia has been asserting greater control over the passage since 2015 – the year after it illegally annexed Crimea. Moscow also backed a pro-Russia insurgency in eastern Ukraine.

Russia has not given any indication of how long it will block the strait, but a long-term closure to would amount to an economic blockade of Ukrainian cities on the Azov coast. Russia’s Black Sea Fleet greatly outmatches the Ukrainian navy.

Nato said it “fully supports Ukraine’s sovereignty and its territorial integrity, including its navigational rights in its territorial waters”. A spokeswoman added: “We call on Russia to ensure unhindered access to Ukrainian ports in the Azov Sea, in accordance with international law.”

Additional reporting by agencies

====== 494 ========

ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ MOCKS FOX NEWS FOR HOSTING A PANEL TO DISCUSS HER WARDROBE

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has mocked Fox News for using a primetime television slot for a panel discussion centred around the newly elected Democrat’s clothing.

Ed Henry, Fox News’ chief national correspondent, and three political pundits talked about the fact a pair of Ms Ocasio-Cortez’s shoes are set to go on display at a Cornell University exhibition entitled Women Empowered: Fashions from the Frontline.

After a viewer alerted the incoming congresswoman to the debate, she responded with Spanish song lyrics by musical act Aventura translating as: “No, it’s not love, what you feel is called obsession.”

The rising political star said non-Spanish speakers could play Mariah Carey’s hit song “Obsession” instead – taking aim at the network for its frequent coverage of her.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez, 29, will became the youngest woman in history to serve in Congress when she takes office in January.

The newcomer has been engaged in a war of words with Fox News ever since the network made jokes about her finances and clothing choices earlier this month.

A self-avowed socialist from the South Bronx, she quipped that the network “has made it clear that they are far superior to [and] more intelligent than me, who they’ve called a ‘little, simple person.’ ”

Ms Ocasio-Cortez originally tweeted about her “campaign shoes” back in June following her victory against Democrat stalwart Joe Crowley in New York’s 14th congressional district.

She said she had won the primary because her team “outworked the competition”.

The Cornell exhibit will feature her worn-out shoes and includes other items of clothing from women who have succeeded in politics and other arenas – including Coretta Scott King, Janet Reno and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez, who volunteered for Bernie Sanders in 2016 presidential campaign, worked as a bartender before thrashing the 10-term representative and then-fourth-ranking Democrat in the House.

Earlier in November, a Fox News panel mocked her finances after she revealed she would have to wait for her congressional salary to kick in before she could afford to rent a home in Washington DC.

Ms Ocasio-Cortez said the news outlet’s reaction was “very revealing to see how gleefully Fox News hosts crack jokes about working class people.”

“It is bizarre to see 1%-salaried anchors laugh at the US housing crisis,” she added.

But her choice of clothing sparked a backlash earlier in the month after a journalist suggested she was a woman who “struggles” with money.

A photo taken of Ms Ocasio-Cortez was tweeted by Eddie Scarry of the Washington Times, who said: “Hill staffer sent me this pic of Ocasio-Cortez they took just now. I’ll tell you something: that jacket and coat don’t look like a girl who struggles”.

Dictionary.com’s Twitter account hit out at Mr Scarry for calling the 29-year-old a “girl,” tweeting him with the definition: “Girl. Noun. A female child, from birth to full growth. E.g. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is not a girl.”

====== 495 ========

EX-TRUMP CAMPAIGN ADVISOR GEORGE PAPADOPOULOS ORDERED TO GO TO JAIL

Donald Trump’s onetime advisor George Papadopoulos has been ordered to go jail, after he failed to persuade a judge to delay his two-week sentence.

Papadopoulos, who last year admitted lying to FBI agents about conversations with Russia-linked intermediaries during the 2016 presidential campaign, sought to delay the sentence while proceeding with a separate legal action challenging the constitutionality of Robert Mueller’s investigation.

But on Sunday, US District Court Judge Randy Moss said Papadopoulos’ arguments had failed to justify a delay and that he must present himself at the prison in Wisconsin on Monday.

As part of his plea deal with the team of Mr Mueller, which is investigating Russia’s alleged interference in the 2016 race and possible collusion by the Trump campaign, Papadopoulos forfeited most of his rights to contest his conviction.

“The court, accordingly, concludes that Papadopoulos’ motion for a stay pending his appeal of this decision lacks merit,” Mr Moss wrote in his ruling. “Plaintiff’s motion to continue bail and motion to stay his surrender date are hereby denied.”

Papadopoulos was sentenced in September, and along with the two weeks he must spend in jail, he must serve 200 hours of community service within a year and pay a fine of $9,500 (£7,400). At his sentencing hearing, the man who met with individuals claiming to have access to “dirt” on Hillary Clinton gathered by the Russian government, appeared contrite.

“People point and snicker and I am terribly depressed,” he told the judge. “This investigation has global implications and the truth matters.”

But CNN reported that since his hearing, the 31-year-old has obtained new legal representation and claimed on Twitter he was a victim in a government conspiracy and will “expose” a corrupt investigation.

Specifically, Papadopoulos claimed to the judge that his prison term should be put on hold while an appeals court weighs the constitutionality of Mr Mueller’s appointment as special counsel.

In his ruling on Sunday, Mr Moss appeared to dismiss the claim that Mr Mueller’s investigation was at odds with the US Constitution and predicted the DC Circuit Court of Appeals would uphold the special counsel’s authority.

“Based on the reasoning contained in those opinions [of other judges], court concludes that the prospect that the DC Circuit will reach a contrary conclusion is remote,” he said.

Papadopoulos will be the third defendant in Mr Mueller probe’s to serve jail time. Previously, the Dutch lawyer Alex Van Der Zwaan stayed a month in a Pennsylvania federal prison for lying to investigators, while the Californian fake ID salesman Richard Pinedo is being held in a southern California prison until mid-May 2019.

Neither Papadopoulos, or his lawyer, immediately commented on the judge’s ruling. His wife, Simona, tweeted on Wednesday he would serve his time in a prison facility in Wisconsin.

====== 496 ========

US POLITICS

====== 497 ========

BREXIT: EU LEADERS APPROVE THERESA MAY’S DEAL BUT WARN IT CANNOT BE RENEGOTIATED

EU leaders have approved Theresa May’s Brexit deal at a special summit in Brussels on Sunday, warning that it is “the only deal possible” within the prime minister’s red lines.

The signoff by the bloc paves the way for MPs to vote on the deal, with officials in Brussels told to expect MPs to make their decision on 10 or 11 December.

The 27 heads of state and government are understood to have avoided discussing what would happen if the deal was rejected by parliament, as now looks increasingly likely.

Officials privy to the private top-level meeting said the plan was adopted in “a matter of seconds” with one describing the short session as “solemn”.

Some EU chiefs gave emotional goodbyes to Britain, with council president Donald Tusk telling journalists: “Regardless of how it will all end, one thing is certain: we will remain friends until the end of days, and a day longer.”

But commission president Jean-Claude Juncker struck a starker tone, warning: “This is the best deal possible for Britain, this is the best deal possible for Europe, this is the only deal possible. The only deal possible.”

He added: “Those who think that by rejecting the deal that they would have a better deal will be disappointed in the first seconds after the rejection of this deal.”

Outside the summit, pro-Remain activists took a blowtorch to a mock copy of the withdrawal agreement, before they were asked to stop by Belgian police.

Speaking on the doorstep of the meeting, Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte said he did not expect MPs to reject the deal.

“I don’t expect a ‘no’ vote. I expect a ‘yes’ vote and this is the deal on the table. I don’t think there’s anything more,” he said.

Discussion about what to do in the event the deal was rejected was notable by its absence from the meeting, with one senior EU official saying there was “no appetite” for it after the gruelling slog to an agreement.

“I don’t think there were any ‘what if’ questions asked to Theresa May today, quite a few were wishing her good luck,” they said.

We don’t want to create the false impression for the UK that a better alternative deal is possible

Irish prime minister Leo Varadkar said: “We made the conscious decision as 27 not to speculate on alternative scenarios.

“We don’t want to create the false impression for the UK that a better alternative deal is possible.”

Austrian chancellor Sebastian Kurz added: “It is important that everyone in the UK is aware of the fact that this agreement is the final result. It will definitely not be renegotiated and there will be no further leeway.”

The European Council conclusions released after the meeting specifically thanked chief negotiator Michel Barnier “for his tireless efforts as the Union’s chief negotiator and for his contribution to maintaining the unity among EU27 member states throughout the negotiations”.

EU leaders met among themselves without Theresa May, and were then joined by the British prime minister to discuss the deal once they had signed it off. The PM has been in Brussels since Saturday afternoon putting the finishing touches to the deal.

Among the final hurdles was the issue of Gibraltar. The UK conceded in writing that Spain should have a veto over whether any future trade deal applies to Gibraltar – potentially storing up trouble down the road. Spain wants any future relationship governing the British overseas territory to be negotiated bilaterally between itself and the UK.

Behind the scenes, officials in Brussels were delighted with the result, particularly the maintenance of EU unity in the face of British attempts to divide the bloc.

“Many member states have had very particular concerns which are all legitimate, and there has been a willingness to accommodate,” one EU source said.

“More fundamentally that says something about the nature of the union. The union stands up for its member states – like Spain, Ireland. This is the essence of the union. I would tend to borrow a slogan and say ‘Stronger In’.”

====== 498 ========

LATEST UK POLITICAL NEWS AND POLITICAL DEBATES

====== 499 ========

ELON MUSK BELIEVES HE HAS A 70% LIKELIHOOD OF FLYING TO MARS DESPITE 'GOOD CHANCE OF DEATH'

Tech entrepreneur Elon Musk has claimed there is a 70 per cent likelihood he will make it to Mars on one of his spacecraft – despite there being “a good chance of death”.

The 47-year-old founder of Tesla, who is among several businessmen seeking to find a way to reach the red planet, said while some consider his vision a fantasy, he thinks making the journey could be possible in as little as seven years from now, with the price of a ticket as low as “a couple of hundred thousand dollars”.

“I know exactly what to do,” Mr Musk told Axios on HBO. “I’m talking about moving there.”

Mr Musk, who is also involved in a project to build a high-speed mass transit system underneath the streets of Los Angeles, is known for making remarks that frequently secure him both striking headlines and mocking derision.

Yet, in an interview with the programme, he insisted he was being serious in his predictions. He also said he did not see moving to Mars as an escape route for the super rich.

“Your probability of dying on Mars is much higher than Earth,” he said.

