====== 1 ========

STATES IN MOTION

On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressing a select gathering of Cabinet ministers, foreign diplomats, industry leaders and senior bureaucrats in Delhi, said the Union government was working towards doubling the size of the Indian economy to $5 trillion as soon as possible and placing India among the top 50 countries in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business ranking. To achieve this goal, the prime minister said, his government was strengthening the cooperative competitive federalism framework for which it was continuously in discussion with states to streamline regulatory approvals and expedite clearances.

Driven by this push from the top, Indian states are fast emerging as growth-driven units intent on outperforming each other in the race to reach the top in terms of economic development and social welfare. Chief ministers, cutting across party lines, are positioning themselves as CEOs of their states. They have the micro details of their state on their fingertips, they lead from the front and are ready to adopt innovative, even unconventional means to find solutions to problems.

From ease of indulging in corrup­tion once, the emphasis today has shifted towards ease of doing business. According to the Confederation of Ind­ian Industry (CII), the performance of states in the World Bank and Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) ease of doing business rankings reflects the remarkable progress made in improving the investment climate in the past four years. The innovative partnership between the central and state governments and the spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism in facilitating investments across the country is yielding notable results, CII president Rakesh Bharti Mittal said recently.

In this context, the india today State of the States study has become more relevant than ever. In its 17th year, it has emerged as a comprehensive and robust barometer of the performance of Indian states. This year, we expanded the attributes across categories (see methodology) and, after consulting experts, assigned different weightage to each category. The states were evaluated for a total score of 2,000 across categories. Even for attributes, we assigned different weightage. The logic was simplegeographical and social factors often give unfair advantage to certain states if the same weightage is attributed to all the categories. For instance, Delhi or an industrial state such as Maharashtra may score low against Himachal Pradesh, Kerala or Assam on environment. So, to neutralise any advantage, categories that reflected a state’s own effort more were given higher weightage.

This is not to say environment is less important than other categories. In fact, states’ performance on environment has become even more critical as India, according to The Yale University’s Environment Performance Index 2018, stands at the bottom of the Global Environment Performance Index (EPI) rankings today. In 2016, the country was ranked 141 out of 180 countries. In 2018, it has slipped to the 177th position. With national capital Delhi gasping for fresh air, Kolkata emerging as one of the most polluted states and Assam named as home to the country’s second most polluted rivers, environmental degradation is not restricted to specific cities, zones or regions anymore. If the political leadership and social awareness don’t work in tandem, development will be meaningless.

Sixteen years ago, when india today recognised the increasing role of states in India’s transformation and started the ambitious task of measuring the pace of their growth, the Planning Commission determined the road map of the country’s growth. The states followed the plan New Delhi chalked out. Today, the states are masters of their own destiny or, at the least, moving in that direction. The Centre-state relationship has moved from that of donor and receiver. Now it’s more performance-based reward. In fact, NITI Aayog has pitched for a formula for the central government to share its divisible pool of taxes with states in a way that does not go against the interest of states that have performed well in terms of social development. I think it is clear that the formula (for devolution of taxes to states) has to include some performance-based criteria so that those states which have done better on certain parameters are not punished, NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar recently said. He, however, warns that it cannot be done overnight and has to be implemented gradually, considering the political sensitivity around resource allocation in a federal set-up.

The disparity in the growth of states is one of the biggest challenges before the country. The uneven growth has spawned several narrativesnorth versus south, coastal versus mainland, stable government versus frequent regime changes. How­ever, development doesn’t always follow these binaries as the india today State of the States study has reflected on multiple occasions. For instance, states which have featured the maximum number of times among the top 10 across categoriesTamil Nadu, Karnataka, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Maharashtrareflect an almost uniform progress across all regions. Certainly, there is serious cause for concern: two of the major states of the EastWest Bengal and Odishado not top the table in any of the 12 categories.

What’s encouraging, however, is the ranking of the most improved states. States that have traditionally been laggards in the best performing category have shown the fastest growth in the past five years. The top seven most improved statesAssam, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Biharare at the bottom of the best performing states. Of course, critics say that given that they start from a low base, their growth rates look good. But this does not detract from the fact that these laggard states are making a valiant effort to change their position. That’s the reason BIMARU states such as Bihar and MP are clocking a nearly 10 per cent growth rate, often higher than economic behemoths such as Maharashtra and Punjab. A tiny state like Puducherry has been consistently growing at over 10 per cent.

For the traditional table toppers, it becomes difficult to match the growth rate of the new risers. It’s therefore encouraging to see as many as 27 of 31 states and UTs examined for the india today State of the States study being awarded across multiple categories.

Yet, it’s just the beginning. Apart from the regional disparitysouth and west India have been the main growth drivers, with the north catching up but the east still performing abysmallythe real big divide is between urban and rural India. Indian cities account for nearly 65 per cent of India’s GDP.

Even among states performing well, it is only a few cities that are driving growth. This rural underdevelopment is resulting in a migration crisis, the most recent example being in Gujarat. According to the Economic Survey 2016-17, which studied internal migration patterns, less affluent states see more out-migration’ while the most affluent states are the largest recipients. So south Indian states such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have attracted the highest number of migrants while out-migration rates have increased in MP, Bihar and UP. The last two account for more than half of inter-state migrants. In the five years ended 2016, an average of nine million people migrated between states every year for education or work, according to the Economic Survey 2016-17. That’s almost double the inter-state migration recorded in 2001-2011 and captured by Census 2011.

Interestingly, out-migration dipped in Assam, perhaps a reflection of the growing opportunities in the state. No wonder then that it has become the most improved large state, based on its perform­ance across 12 categories in the past five years. In an interview with india today last week, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal claimed that private com­panies offered jobs to around one lakh youth in the past two years while his government absorbed 55,000 people.

Unfortunately, politically motivated rhetoric and unsubstantiated information spreading across social media have often led to xenophobic skirmishes against migrants in several Indian states. But what gets drowned in the noise of prime time and headlines in big type is the story of socioeconomic integrity propelled by migration. For instance, in Surat, migrants make up 70 per cent of the city’s workforce. Municipal authorities in Surat are catering to the city’s migrants by running over 120 special schools for them.

India’s progress is fuelled by such stories and the india today State of the States study is an acknowledgment and celebration of such inspirational nuggets.

Methodology

The 2018 India Today State of the States study was conducted by leading research agency Marketing and Development Research Associates (MDRA). The states were ranked under two broad segmentsBest Performing and Most Improved. In the best performing category, the latest performance of a state specific to a category based on recent data was examined. In the most improved category, improvement of a state over the past five years based on outcome-based positive changes were examined. In order to have a fair comparison, states were divided into big and small. States with a geographical area of over 35,000 square kilometres and population of more than 5 million were categorised as big while the rest were clubbed as small. The performances of the states were examined under 13 categoriesoverall, economy, infrastructure, agriculture, education, health, law and order, governance, inclusive development, entrepreneurship, environment, cleanliness and tourism. Each category was given different weightage. Data was sourced from different reliable databases under various attributes105 for best performing ranks, 80 for most improved ranksfor each category. More than 20 expertsacademia, representatives from NITI Aayog, think-tanks, research organisations, sociologists and economists were consulted to determine the attributes and weightage for categories and attributes. The data collected for each attribute was cleaned, normalised and standardised. Most recent data for each state2016-17 and 2015-16were analysed for evaluation of best performing states while compounded annual growth rates (CAGR) on each attribute for the past five years were used to rank most improved states. Based on the weightage determined for each attribute, rankings in each category were arrived at. Categorywise scores were used to arrive at overall best performing and most improved states. The MDRA research team included Abhishek Agrawal (Executive Director), Abnish Jha (Associate Project Director), Shamik Bandyopadhyay (Assistant Research Manager) and Rajan Chauhan (Research Executive).

====== 2 ========

GLASSHOUSE

Yadav Wars

Is there a hidden BJP hand behind the ongoing discord in the Mulayam Singh Yadav family? Samajwadi Party workers say the evidence is overwhelming. The Yogi Adityanath government had earlier announced a CBI probe into a riverfront project in Lucknow conceived when Mulayam’s younger brother Shivpal Singh was irrigation minister. There has been no sign of the probe for over a year now. The state government recently allotted Shivpal a bungalow earlier given to Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati. BJP leaders, meanwhile, continue to taunt SP president Akhilesh Yadav for his poor treatment of Shivpal and Mulayam. Shivpal’s newly launched Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) plans to contest the Lok Sabha election. Shivpal’s son Aditya is to contest the Kannauj seat held by Akhilesh’s wife Dimple. Shivpal is to contest elections from the Firozabad seat currently held by Akshay Yadav, son of his cousin Ramgopal Yadav and an Akhilesh acolyte. Expect many more instalments of this family saga in the run-up to 2019.

Thackerays Tamed



A one lakh crowd had been projected for Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s November 25 rally in Ayodhya. It was to be Uddhav’s first major programme outside Maharashtra. But with Sainiks unwilling to venture outside home turf, the mega rally is now set to be a series of small meetings, a puja at the ghat and a media interaction.

At the peak of his career, Maharash- tra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thac- keray had boycotted national Hindi and English channels. With the MNS rendered politically irrelevant, his absence is not even noticed these days. So, his appearance on a Marathi channel on Raksha Bandhan and Children’s Day piqued curiosity. A comeback?

Urban Legend



Pune police took a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent urban Naxal’ jibe at the Congress in Chhattisgarh. A city police official recently called the chargesheet filed against five accused in the Elgar Parishad case (which led to violence in Bhima Koregaon) an urban Naxal’ case. The Pune police used the same terminology in their press release when talking to the Supreme Court. Curiously, the term was absent in the original chargesheet. Doesn’t matter now, does it?



Yedd of State



The untimely demise of Union minister Ananth Kumar has left B.S. Yeddyurappa the BJP’s unchallenged leader within Karnataka. But the state unit president is finding the task of strengthening the party for the 2019 general election tough. The party’s poor performance in the recent bypolls has prompted calls for his replacement with a younger leader. Yeddyurappa, 75, maintains he is the undisputed leader. Of the Margdarshak Mandal, his detractors hope.

Facebook’s Transparency Problem

It’s been a difficult year or so for Facebook. It failed to protect the data of millions of users, and became the preferred receptacle for fake news, video nasties and all manner of manipulationfrom aggressively targeted advertising to political propaganda. Last week, the NYT reported that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg neglected security concerns and turned a blind eye to the company’s covert effort to discredit critics and peddle conspiracy theories, all the while publicly feigning contrition. On November 16, Facebook released its latest transparency’ report. Since May, the report has included a statistic on the hundreds of millions of pieces of content Facebook filters out before it gets to us. It’s an attempt to show that it does care about misinformation. The report also tells us about government requests for user data and Facebook’s rate of compliance. But it’ll take more for Facebook to recover its credibility.



Health Check on Modicare

Just about two months into the government’s far-reaching Ayushman Bharat scheme, dubbed the world’s largest public health programme, statistics for secondary and tertiary care show that a majority of patients have been treated in private facilities. The private sector seemed unhappy with the pricing of insurance packages, which had implications for the number of hospitals that might get empanelled’ to offer treatment under the scheme. India’s expenditure on healthcare, as a proportion of GDP, is minuscule, compared with not just developed economies but also some of the world’s poorest. Questions remain on whether out-of-pocket expenses will be significantly impacted and whether enough room has been made in the tight budget to cope with an explosion of demand.

Pullquote

Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu has gone on record about his democratic compulsion to ally with the Congress to attempt to defeat the BJP in the 2019 general election. The Telangana assembly election is due on December 7, and Naidu has been eager to stress his opposition to the BJP. As part of a whistle-stop tour to rally together a coalition, Naidu travelled to West Bengal to meet the state’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP, on its part, has sought to diss such opportunism as mere animus against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

====== 3 ========

AN UNEASY TRUCE

When the board meeting of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) ended on November 19, there was a sense of relief in various quarters. The meeting was expected to be stormy, given that several points of contention between the central bank and the government were to be raised. However, as a terse note from the RBI after the marathon nine-hour meeting seemed to suggest, the central bank yielded ground and seemed to have relented on the government’s key demands.

One of the issues discussed before the 18-member board was the government’s demand for the transfer of RBI’s reserves, estimated at Rs 3.6 lakh crore. This has been a contentious issue, and was central to a much-debated speech by RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya last month, where he drew the example of a conflict between Argentina’s government and its central bank to caution that government interference would invite the wrath of the markets. But for a government keen to maintain its fiscal discipline close to the general election amid uncertain oil prices and a rising rupee, it was critical to be able to dip into the RBI’s resources to bridge the fiscal deficit. The RBI will constitute an expert committee to examine its economic capital framework, the membership and terms of reference of which will be jointly determined by the government and the central bank.

The debate on the economic capital framework cannot be a subjective one, and both sides need to start talking on how much a central bank should hold, says Ashvin Parekh, a banking consultant. They need to arrive at a level of surplus that offers comfort to both the regulator and the economy, he adds. At the same time, he was critical of setting up new committees on the matter. The tendency to form committees is a nice arrangement to pass the buck, he says.

With regard to the government’s demand to ease the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA) norms, where lending restrictions have been placed on 11 public sector banks that had a high level of bad loans, the bank has agreed to have the matter examined by its Board for Financial Supervision. The RBI had wanted to focus on recovering loans first, as the financials of these banks were very weak. There is substance in both sides of the argument, says Parekh. You can have a middle path, and say, we are not insisting that all the recovery is made, but there needs to be a certain order in recovery and a certain order in governance’. This may happen now since both the sides have agreed to listen to each other, he adds. Karthik Srinivasan, the group head of financial sector ratings at ICRA, says there is a possibility of banks exiting faster from the PCA framework.

The RBI board has recommended a scheme to restructure the stressed assets of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) with aggregate credit facilities of up to Rs 25 crore. But experts say this is a bad idea, since the extent of recovery is largely dependent on the liquidity in the system. Much of the non-performing assets in the banking system are from such small firms, and can balloon further. This was why the RBI has been reluctant to consider any loan recast scheme for small units. While the board has not come up with a special window for non-banking financial companies where liquidity has dried up following the IL&FS debacle, it has liberalised the implementation of the capital adequacy norms under the Basel regulatory framework. While the capital to risky assets ratio (CRAR) has been retained at 9 per cent, the board has extended the transition period for implementing the last tranche of 0.625 per cent under the Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) by one year to March 31, 2020. CRAR is a measure of the capital requirements of a bank, expressed in relation to its risky assets (mainly loans) profile. The CCB is the additional capital banks have to own beyond the mandatory minimum capital requirements, and the easing of the transition norms will come as a relief to banks.

The RBI board did not discuss the governance structure of the central bank. This and the issue regarding NBFCs are likely to be taken up at the board meeting on December 14

====== 4 ========

THE POLITICS OF NAME CHANGES

The Modi government is often accused of tying new name-ribbons around existing welfare schemes and presenting them as new. While this goes on at the Centre, some BJP state governments and many in the larger Sangh parivar have gone on a seemingly unending name-changing spree. Uttar Pradesh has taken the lead, but there are also murmurs about Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and local demands to rename Aurangabad and Osmanabad (Maharashtra), and the tempo is sure to pick up.

The past is always in the repertoire of identity politics, and legends and leaders consigned to the past tend to find place in the contested terrain of statues and symbols. Rulers and ruling classes are keen to turn their legacies into monuments and memory. This is true not only of pre-democratic rulers; in democracies too, the bid to create enduring legacies and leave imprints on public memory form an essential part of the politics of culture. So, rulers and political figures are memorialised, often posthumously, in currency notes, in statues at busy public squares, on signboards and road names. If anything, in the time of selfie-love, the narcissistic impulse to make themselves a part of history is greater for our current democratic rulers. Just as rulers of pre-Independence India, British or Mughals or homegrown, and of various religious persuasions ensured they live for posterity through memory, so do the rulers today want to create new memories. What is happening in our midst may be understood as the politics of memory, the politics of symbols, at multiple levels, as an easy way to hold sway in the politics of culture.

One level of this politics is to attempt to erase parts of our history: by changing Muslim-sounding names or names given by Muslim rulers, the current attempt is to obliterate the history of more than six centuries. That period is seen by the current regime as a period of external’ aggression that wounded our’ selfhood, and the attempt to expunge this swathe of memory from the public imagination is an attempt to heal the perceived scars of defeat retrospectively. It is as if history got suspended circa 12th century and resumed only in the 20th or is it the 21st, when the Modi era began?

The other level at which this politics plays out is the assertion that India is a Hindu’ nation (Hindu, used in the religious sense) and, therefore, the basis of not only history and memory, but also of identity, morality and, hence, politics must be Hindu religious ideas. This is not just about history; it is part of the project to redefine our collective selfhood. The urge to change names of cities, roads and so on is indicative of a deeper unease and uncertainty about the more inclusive identity India adopted post-Independence.

The third level at which this politics is bound to diversify and expand is in the retelling of the more recent history of our national struggle and the building of a democratic society. This enterprise is already under way beyond the current phase of renaming, and in the larger battle of ideas, there will be efforts to diminish the stature of, or even remove from public attention, those leaders whose ideas the current regime abhors. Of course, the argument begins with the sense of injury that our’ leaders were not adequately memorialised whereas their’ leaders were everywhere. But the real issue is not the space or memory estate Nehru or Deendayal Upadhyaya occupy, it is which ideas should form the ideological basis for defining India’s collective identity. That project won’t stop at undoing the memory of Mughal or Muslim rulers, it will extend to erasing the sense of a more inclusive Indianness, by presenting a false claim that only Hindutva is true Indianness.

Suhas Palshikar edits the journal Studies in Indian Politics and is co-director of the Lokniti Programme of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS)

====== 5 ========

GREAT DIVIDE IN THE MIND

The worst part of this book is Gurcharan Das’s blurb: If only Patel had lived longer, India would have been spared the excesses of the Licence Raj and the Kashmir problem. This is to trivialise the massive scholarship Hindol Sengupta has brought to bear on his monumental biography of Sardar Patel and reduce the theme of this book to the wholly false binary of Patel vs Nehru’.

Notwithstanding the fact that, quite unlike Nehru, the Sardar wrote no books, Sengupta has mined Patel’s numerous letters and speeches to give us a virtually self-written portrait of this great stalwart of the freedom movement, supplemented by a detailed study of different sources, to present a Patelian perspective on the complex relationship between the distinguished members of the vanguard who frequently had ideological and policy differences among themselves, as well documented by Sengupta: Sardar Patel himself; Nehru, of course; Rajaji; Azad; Rajendra Prasad; Subhas Chandra Bose and numerous others. This menagerie of leaders of genius was controlled with astounding deftness by the one who stood head and shoulders above them, individually and collectively, and to whom each of them deferred much of the time, however much they disagreed with him on specifics, Mahatma Gandhi.

I doubt that the annals of history anywhere in the world or at any time have thrown up such a democratic Team of Rivals who were permitted, even encouraged, to not only disagree with each other but also frequently with the Mahatma himself, and yet were yoked together by their quest for freedom.

However, as Sengupta notes, it was Gandhi, none other, who announced as early as 1942, in the midst of a blazing row between Gandhi and Nehru on how far to accommodate the Cripps Mission, that his successor would be Nehru. Why would Gandhi do this?

After all, Patel, in years, was like a brother to Gandhi; Nehru, in years, more like a son. But, as Sengupta explains, Patel was a very ill man; Nehru, in contrast, was extremely fit. Did Gandhi think the burden of leading independent India in its formative stages should devolve on the shoulders of one who had two decades of nation-building ahead of him rather than a colleague, however valued, who would outlast the Mahatma by less than a thousand days? Or were there other more profound reasons?

Given the assiduity with which Sengupta has researched his subject, his conclusion is bizarre. He assigns the basic reason to Gandhi’s belief that Nehru should be elevated over Patel because Nehru spoke better English and his upbringing would fit him better to negotiate with the British! This is ridiculous because it portrays the Father of Our Nation as an idiot.

The fact is that Patel became Gandhi’s companion-in-arms long before Nehru emerged as a distant speck on the political horizon. They linked together in 1917 to run the Kheda satyagraha in the immediate wake of Gandhi’s outstanding success at Champaran (while a virtually briefless Nehru was still indolently smoking cigarettes at the Allahabad bar association). Gandhi’s intimacy with Patel thus long preceded his association with Nehru. He did not need to be told of Patel’s merits and claim to the Congress presidency and, later, the premiership of free India. Surely then, the Mahatma would have carefully weighed his choice before making it. Yet, Sengupta flounders in explaining why Gandhi should have so often overlooked Patel.

Gandhi was entirely cognizant of Patel’s organisational talents: he knew the Congress was held together and funded by the iron hand of the Sardar. He knew too that nine of the 11 Congress provincial units sought to see Patel succeed Maulana Azad in 1946, thus paving the way for his eventual assuming of the leadership of the government. What one would have hoped for in such a comprehensive study is an examination of the grounds on which Gandhi overruled the overwhelming preference of the party.

Sengupta suggests (apparently not tongue-in-cheek) that Gandhi feared Nehru revolting against being made No. 2 whereas he was assured of Patel remaining faithful whatever his decision. Given the numerous occasions on which Nehru acquiesced to Gandhi’s diktat against his own best judgement, this is not history, it’s petty bias.

Gandhi chose Nehru because, while the party desired Patel, the country preferred Nehru. This perception was, of course, never tested empirically but Patel and Nehru would have testified that Gandhi had an uncanny sense of what the people wanted, which is what made him the final arbiter in the many quarrels he had with Patel and Nehru (and they with each other). At the same time, Gandhi understood that it was not a question of choosing one over the other, but harnessing their separate talents to take the nation forward. Patel would be best for domestic issues, such as integrating the princely states into the Union (which he did with unmatched ability) while Nehru was better fitted with the vision to guide and inspire the new nation.

For Gandhi, nothing was more important to nation-building than maintaining Hindu-Muslim unity in the face of Partition. Indeed, he wanted Partition to be ideologica­lly nullified by building an India in which the minorities would be reassured they had made the right choice in rejecting the two-nation theory by not moving to Pakistan.

Neither Patel nor Nehru was wanting in such staunch secularism. But it was obvious by the time of Independence that India’s Muslims trusted Nehru the most. That determined Gandhi’s decision.

There was no Great Divide. Nehru and Patel had the highest respect for each other as Nehru found out when the Congress Parliamentary Party was overwhelmingly at odds with him over the Nehru-Liaquat Pact in April 1950. He strode to his office to write out his letter of resignation. His obvious and only possible successor would have been Patel. But, in the Sardar’s finest moment, as recounted by Rajmohan Gandhi, he snatched the resignation letter and ordered Nehru to continue as PM. Why do Sengupta, Das and the Hindu right-wing wish to thwart Patel himself?

====== 6 ========

CAN CBI SURVIVE THE ‘CIVIL’ WAR?

No war fought without weapons could be messier. The CBI’s apparently internecine feudwith CBI chief Alok Verma and his deputy Rakesh Asthana, both on gardening leave, accusing each other of corruption has spilled out into the corridors of the prime minister’s office and now the halls of justice, like some out of control bar brawl. The press, meanwhile, looking on with unabashed glee, are shouting fight, fight! All the unruliness has prompted a schoolmarmish scolding from the Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, who spent a few minutes fuming about leaks before adjourning proceedings to the end of the following week.

The object of CJI Gogoi’s ire was not entirely clear. It was either about the leak to a website of Verma’s sealed response to a report by the Central Vigilance Commission on the accusations against him which the site denies was the basis of its storyor it was about the leak to national media of astonishing claims by another top CBI officer, M.K. Sinha, that the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, a Union minister and Central Vigilance Commissioner K.V. Chowdhury interfered in the investigation of Asthana.

Sinha, who was on the team probing allegations against Asthana, approached the Supreme Court on Monday, November 19, with what his lawyer described as shocking revelations. The bench, consisting of Gogoi, and Justices S.K. Kaul and K.M. Joseph, was unmoved and denied Sinha an urgent hearing, following which the content of those revelations was published in the media.

This court, thundered the affronted bench, is not a platform for people to come and express what they want... Our effort to maintain the respect of this institution is not being shared by everyone. The court also expressed concern for the dignity of the CBI. But that particular horse had long bolted the stable. Last week, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee joined her Andhra Pradesh counterpart Chandrababu Naidu in withdrawing the CBI’s authority to conduct raids and investigations in their states as it saw fit, without having to seek permission.

The chief ministers’ joint action continued to give the CBI’s internal’ conflict a decidedly political hue. Asthana has been characterised as the prime minister’s blue-eyed boy. And the government’s midnight ousting of Verma, followed by the transfers of several CBI officers, some of whom were investigating the charges against Asthana (also put on leave), did nothing to stop tongues wagging. Sinha, who was one of the officers transferred, is now being seen as a combatant on Verma’s side. His allegations against Doval and others have been described by government sources as wild and far-fetched.

Sinha, who was investigating allegations that Asthana had been paid off by Hyderabad businessman Satish Babu Sana to keep his name clear of an investigation into prominent meat exporter Moin Qureshi claims top government functionaries, including a minister, also took bribes from Sana. He says the likes of NSA Doval tried to protect Asthana. Sinha, involved in a number of major investigations, including the multi-billion-dollar scam perpetrated by jewellers Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, had himself apparently aroused suspicions by being among those who enabled former Aircel owner C. Sivasankaran, accused of bank fraud, to escape. Sivasankaran is now a citizen of Seychelles, former finance minister P. Chidambaram and his son Karti are also implicated in the Aircel-Maxis case.

The allegations continue to fly. Will any stick? And how will the CBI put out the inferno without itself being reduced to ashes? The CBI’s origins are in the Special Police Establishment set up in 1941 by the Government of India to investigate corruption in the procurement of wartime supplies. It is an irony that the CBI’s potential demise, at least in this form, could be the consequence of the institutional corruption and political chicanery that has rotted from within a once respected institution.

====== 7 ========

FROM THE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

India is a tale of one country but a story of many states. The dominant narrative of cooperative federalism where the Centre and states work together is now slowly moving towards one of competitive, cooperative federalism. States are now competing with each other for investments that will set up industries, lead to job creation and pull more people out of poverty. The new mantra is development. If there’s any doubt, take a look at the ongoing election campaign for the three heartland states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Candidates in these politically crucial states are promising roads, development and jobs and not talking not about religion, caste or community.

We recognised this shifting trend way back in 2003 when we launched the first State of the States survey, assessing which Indian state had made the most of the opportunities of liberalisation in India. Now in its 17th edition, the india today-MDRA State of the States Survey has emerged as a comprehensive barometer of the performance of Indian states. This year, we have tweaked the method­ology by expanding attributes across categories and rejigging weightages to level the playing field.

Competition in the State of the States survey, we are happy to report, has been intense. As many as 27 of the 31 states we examined have bagged awards across multiple categories. Our rankings reveal some good news and some bad news. The good news firsttraditional laggards in the best performing states category have registered the fastest growth in the past five years. Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar are our most improved states’ even though they figure at the bottom of the list of best performing states. That these states, including some associated with that acronym of slow growth, BIMARU, are now clocking double-digit growth rates of 10 per cent higher than economic behemoths like Maharashtra and Punjab makes one thing very clear: they are intent on shedding their reputation as laggards, and on doing so quickly.

Now the bad news. The growth disparity of states continues to be one of the biggest challenges our country faces. Certain states like Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra reflect an alm­ost uniform progress across categories. In sharp contrast, two large states in the east, Odisha and West Bengal do not top any of the 12 categories we have identified, whether it be economy, tourism, infrastructure, inclusive development, governance, law & order, entrepreneurship, cleanliness, environment, health, education or agriculture.

While north Indian states have been gaining on the economic powerhouses of west and south India, the real divide remains between urban and rural India. Cities account for just 31 per cent of India’s population but constitute nearly 65 per cent of India’s GDP.

These are disparities that call for tremendous political vision and a relentless focus on growth and development.

Since 2015, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), whose job it is to encourage the growth of the industrial sector, has teamed up with the World Bank to release a Business Reform Action Plan. This index ranks states on the basis of their scores on ease of doing business. As we have discovered over the years through multiple editions of ranking states, nothing gets our CEO CMs moving like the prospect of competitive federalism. This is a race that needs to catch on if India’s states are to reduce disparities and bring their people out of poverty and into prosperity.

====== 8 ========

THE RETURN OF KHALISTANI TERROR IN PUNJAB?

The Nirankari congregation at Adliwal village outside Amritsar was at its peak given that it was a particularly pleasant Sunday morning on November 18. Then, just before noon, two young men, cotton scarves masking their faces, rode up on a motorcycle. One pointed a pistol at the two women volunteers on security duty at the gate of the satsang bhavan (prayer hall), while the second, who had been riding pillion, rushed inside and lobbed a grenade. The deafening explosion indoors killed three worshippers. Some 21 others sustained shrapnel injuries.

Police said Nirankari congregations, which have been off most terrorist hit lists since the late 1980s, was a deliberately selected 'soft target'.

While the Punjab police moved swiftly and have already arrested one attacker, Bikramjit Singh, and identified the second as Avtar Singh, the bombing in Amritsar comes in the wake of a rather chilling warning by India's army chief, Bipin Rawat. At a gathering of army officers and senior civil servants in New Delhi on November 3, he said that attempts were being made to revive the insurgency in Punjab. "We can't close our eyes to what is happening in Punjab. If we do not take early action now, it will be too late," he said. Clearly on to something, Rawat reiterated his warning two days later while addressing the annual founders' day function at the Punjab Public School in Nabha. Acknowledging the possibility of a terror strike anywhere in the country, he said that "Punjab is more vulnerable in view of its past history and the continuing exposure of terror modules in the recent past". And although he scaled down the urgency for action at a subsequent interaction at Jammu's Mamun Cantonment, the chief emphasised the need to stay alert to emerging threats from overseas Khalistani separatists. He specifically cited the New York-based separatist outfit, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and its call for a worldwide referendum in 2020, on an independent Sikh state or Khalistan.

Back in Punjab, the state police and intelligence establishment has long been aware of the SFJ's dubious designs. Currently headed by US-based lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, who describes himself as the group's 'legal advisor', the SFJ launched its campaign for the referendum from New York in June 2014. The outfit aims to conduct what its functionaries call a "non-binding referendum" online in November 2020. After gaining enough "positive votes" for Khalistan, they plan to approach the United Nations for a "binding referendum".

Although an apparently pointless endeavour, the SFJ and its cohorts are deviously employing the 2020 campaign to radicalise young Sikhs in Punjab as well as within the diaspora.

An SFJ website offers 2020 banners, decals, tellingly alongside T-shirts bearing images of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and Khalistan flags. A virulent social media campaign invites Sikhs in 20 countries to support the demand for separate nationhood, while claiming that "if the number of positive votes crosses three million, then Punjab would become a separate nation like Pakistan". Both state and central security officials have also taken note of Pannu's attempts to validate the SFJ plebiscite call by publicising online his visits to meet separatists in Catalonia (Spain), Venezuela and Iraq.

SFJ's associates are also running a parallel, underground campaign across Punjab. There have been a number of surreptitious conclaves, including one in January 2016 at the privately-run Lovely Professional University in Jal­andhar. Referendum 2020 hoardings or slogans simply spray-painted on walls have come up in Mohali, Sangrur, Fatehgarh, Barnala, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Moga, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran. Attempts to organise a statewide cycle rally to promote the 'referendum' and distribute militant memorabilia were thwarted after police got wind of the plans in October 2017.

SFJ has also been hosting public gatherings to promote the plebiscite in New York, London and Toronto. For one such event at London's Trafalgar Square on August 12, the outfit even offered to pay airfares for Sikh youth willing to fly down from Punjab.

Pannu and his friends maintain their demand for plebiscite "has no room for violence". But consider the evidence: this May, police arrested former Territorial Army (TA) soldiers Dharminder Singh and Kirpal Singh for attacking two liquor vends in Batala district with Molotov cocktails. During interrogation, the two confessed to Pannu and his associates in the US, UK and Malaysia instructing and funding them. They said they were "instructed to torch licensed liquor shops and other government properties in Punjab".

Pannu himself has not shied away from venting his ire. This April, when police arrested four Sikh youth who were allegedly planning to unfurl 2020 banners at Indian Premier League matches in Mohali, he is said to have openly threatened Punjab police officers, including DGP Suresh Arora and state intelligence chief Dinkar Gupta. He reportedly threatened retribution against children of police officers studying in the US, Canada, UK, EU, Australia and New Zealand.

On September 6, he appeared in a YouTube video describing Union home minister Rajnath Singh as a "dehshatgard (terrorist)". This was after Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter handles associated with Pannu and Referendum 2020 were blocked. Pannu claimed this was done at New Delhi's behest. Twenty days later, when Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh criticised 2020 and the SFJ, Pannu publicly dared him "to remove his security detail for two days and see what happens". According to state intelligence dossiers, the SFJ chief went on to ask police personnel on the ministerial security detail to back the 2020 referendum.

Security officials say SFJ's activities caught the attention of Pakistan's Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) in early 2015. According to them, the ISI initiated 'Operation Express' to help finance and expand SFJ's efforts to force a referendum on Punjab. This included the promotion of Referendum 2020 through an ISI front organisation, the Dyal Singh Research & Cultural Forum (DSRCF), which has been installing massive hoardings and posters at gurudwaras in Pakistan during visits by Sikh jathas (pilgrim groups) from India. DSRCF agents are also known to be working closely with the SFJ in countries with a sizeable Sikh population. Says a senior Punjab Police officer, "By connecting with the SFJ, the ISI has gained access to a ready resource base of radicalised Sikh youth willing to do its bidding." This is something ISI handlers had sorely lacked ever since Khalistani terrorism was emphatically beaten back in the mid-90s. Since then, Punjab's 80,000-strong, battle-hardened police force had kept things well below a simmer. Officers say that a robust human intelligence network with moles in just about every Khalistani outfit relegated to havens in Pakistan or the West, worked well to scuttle most terrorist plans.

INVENTORY OF TERROR-Weapons recovered from Khalistan militants in Amritsar in April 2017

Things began changing in the summer of 2015, when the Punjab countryside erupted with rage over the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot's Bargari village and the subsequent police firing which killed two Sikh protesters at Behbal Kalan in October 2015. This added to the raging indignation over the Akal Takht decision to pardon Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for his 2007 'transgression' of trying to imitate Guru Gobind Singh.

Police officers say the continuing incidents of desecration of the Granth Sahib have been fuelling radicalisation. "The recent report of the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission which has held [former chief minister] Parkash Singh Badal responsible for the police firing in Behbal Kalan has only added to the mix," says a police officer who has been tracking attempts to revive the Khalistan campaign.

Consider the following: since March 2017, as many as 17 Khalistani terror modules have been exposed and neutralised in Punjab, resulting in the arrest of 81 terrorists. Among those arrested, several are rank newcomers with no record of any sympathy for the Khalistan cause. Most were self-radicalised in the wake of the desecrations and then cultivated by the ISI and SFJ via social media.

This is not to say the Khalistani 'old guard' has been idle. This February, CM Amarinder handed Canadian premier Justin Trudeau a dossier with the names and details of nine Canada-based Sikhs involved in abetting terrorist activity in Punjab. Among those listed, Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Malkiat Singh Fauji, Gurjeet Singh Cheema, Gurpreet Singh Lande and Gurjinder Singh Pannu are charged with being involved in recruiting terrorists, terror-funding, procuring and supplying weapons and explosives and arranging weapons training for recruits.

Unsurprisingly, Pannu and the SFJ have direct links with the nine Canadian Sikhs as well as Khalistani operatives in the UK, Germany and Australia. Intelligence officials say Nijjar and the UK-based Khalistani Paramjit Singh Pamma have been seen onstage at SFJ events to promote Referendum 2020 in Toronto, New York and London. Nijjar also flew down to Toronto to provide legal assistance to Jagtar Singh Tara (convicted this year for the assassination of ex-Punjab CM Beant Singh in 1995), who was detained in Thailand in January 2015. And when the authorities in Portugal later detained Pamma, Pannu stepped in to contest the case on his behalf.

The SFJ has also been cultivating armed gangsters in Punjab. In a YouTube video, Pannu promised wanted gangsters "justice" if they support Referendum 2020. An intelligence dossier also describes a trip Pannu made to Hong Kong this March to offer legal support to dreaded gangster Ramanjit Singh Romy, detained in res­ponse to an Interpol Red Corner Notice at the behest of the Punjab police.

With the ISI now in overall command in Pakistan, the Indian security establishment may have to contend with 'Operation Express' re-operationalising Pakistan's erstwhile K2 (Kashmir-Khalistan) Plan.

Earlier this month, Shahid Qayoom, Fazil Bashir, Mir Rouf Ahmad and Mir Umar Ramzan-four Kashmiri students enrolled at Jalandhar's Saint Soldier College of Engineering and Technology-were charged with lobbing grenades at the Maksudan police station in Jalandhar on September 14. All four were recently recruited by the Zakir Musa-led Al Qaeda-affiliated Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AGH).

Police officers say Musa, who was marginalised within Kashmir's terror hierarchy after he questioned Pakistan's role and threatened to behead the Hurriyat separatists in 2017, has since mended fences with the ISI. He is now believed to be heading a new Jaish-e-Mohammed-backed offensive aimed at spreading terror outside the Valley-to Punjab and even Delhi. The Punjab police has arrested nearly a dozen Kashmiri students in possession of weapons that include Kalashnikov rifles and grenades. One such student was detained this August in Jammu with a bag containing seven hand grenades meant for random attacks on crowds in Delhi.

Police officers probing the Adliwal incident now know that both Bikramjit and Avtar Singh are local rural youth recruited by the Pakistan-based Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) terrorist Harmeet Singh aka 'Happy' or 'PhD'. As suspected, both were initially recruited via social media and later instructed on VoIP calls.

Now, they are investigating another troubling aspect-whether the Pakistan ordnance factory-issued HG-84 grenade used in the attack was sourced from Kashmiri AGH and JeM elements now known to be present in Punjab. The Nirankari Bhavan attack came within days of an intelligence alert of Musa being spotted in Amritsar.

====== 9 ========

HEALTHY BEGINNINGS

Step Up

Club Crest

Chennai's newestsocial club is also its hottest fitness destination. Launched in September this year, Club Crest brings in fitness and wellness under one roof. With majestic archways constructed out of recycled elevator crates, the 15,000 sq ft space offers something to every kind of fitness enthusiast. A 25-foot climbing wall, running track, pilates machine, a dedicated spa and juice bar-everything is housed conveniently in a space called Cathedral of Fitness. In addition to that, there is the Whatever Room which hosts group classes like TRX and Kettle Bell.

Helmed by Nishka Choraria, 23, vice president, marketing and business development, the centre also curates group fitness experiences. Celebrity trainer and fitness director, Sandeep Pappula, 27, who has worked with Arun Vijay and Vishwanathan Anand, focuses on goal-oriented fitness regimes with members. "We have four programmes-Build, Burn, Balance and Transform-based on your requirement," he says. "There's also a dedicated nutrition and physio therapy room for an all-round fitness experience as well," adds Choraria.

At phoenix market city, velachery

Tel 9854330684

Price on request

Ritika Agarwal of Rawmazing. Photo: Sumanth Kumar

Meal in a Bowl

Rawmazing

A Buddha bowl tobring some zen into your life or a quinoa sushi salad to keep your cravings at bay-salads by Ritika Agarwal don't just promise you a quick, healthy meal but look like bowls of sunshine too. With a back ground in catering, Agarwal, 42, would experiment with exotic ingredients and cui sines at home. Her brand, Rawmazing, began with a request from a friend. "She asked me to make her salads five days a week and got together a set of ten people who were willing to order. I started with simple foil con tainers in 2016," she says.

The salad meals were an instant hit and her subscrip tion service soon had many more takers. She now delivers them thrice a week without once repeating a salad in a month. "They are all low carb with no preservatives or cream and are balanced with good fats and protein," she says. Ingredients such as green leafy vegetables are brought in from Ooty and microgreens from Mumbai.

She pairs leaves such as arugula and Romaine lettuce with grains like quinoa and Israeli couscous. While oriental cuisine is her forte, Italian, Vietnamese, Chinese and Korean flavours make their way in her salads too. All vegetarian, the salads are delivered at lunch time only.

Tel 9790775511

Price rs 3,300 onwards for a subscription of 12 salads

Senthil Kumar Balu of Wholesome Rhapsody. Photo: Jason G

Sweet surprise

Wholesome Rhapsody

Bite into apale coloured cupcake and you'll taste flavours of fresh jackfruit and banana. Moist and mildly sweetened, Senthil Kumar Balu, 34, will quickly give away the secret ingredient and assure you refrigeration won't leave it dry and crumbly. If you thought a diet and dessert don't go together, Wholesome Rhapsody will make you rethink this. Made using millet, ragi, buckwheat and amaranth flour and sweetened with co conut or palm sugar, they also come in unusual flavours like sapota, carrot and jackfruit.

Balu, a cancer researcher turned-baker, didn't set out to make a career in food. A cake baked on a whim while he was working as a professor in Australia got him thinking about 'food as therapy' and all the people who couldn't have dessert because of dietary restrictions. "I used my re search methodology to arrive at recipes. First it was the ma jor ingredients being replaced for healthier alternatives, then minor things like flavour came into place," he says. Fruit puree is used for flavour and home made cream cheese work well as a topping. At Wholesome Rhapsody you can order cakes, cupcakes, jar desserts, sweet and savoury cookies with no preservatives or artificial colouring and customised desserts based on your diet. "I've made cakes for cancer patients using ingredients like turmeric and citrus pectin that are anti-cancer actives," he says.

Tel 9176728176

Price Rs 1,650 per kg onwards

Shruti nair reddy of ananta Spa. Photo: Jason G

Wellness Stop

Ananta Spa

With as many as 24 centres around the country and five upcoming spas, Ananta Spa is the go-to destination for all your wellness needs. Besides popular therapies like the jet lag massage that focuses on improving blood circula tion and inducing peaceful sleep after long travels, there are several other new treat ments on offer. A deep tissue sports massage for athletes and post-workout needs, a wine massage, a bamboo massage, and ayurvedic treat ments have been introduced recently. "We have also made a conscious shift towards all organic products with shower gels, shampoos and some of our oils," says Shruti Nair Reddy, 35, CEO.

Each of the spas now has a couples' room and the new outlets have vibrant décor with separate areas for Thai therapies.

At: all ananta spa outlets tel 42611234

Price: Rs 944 onwards

Santhosh Thomas Elias of A Salad Company.Photo: Sumanth Kumar

Right Bite

A Salad Company

Once an IT professional who used to grab a quick unhealthy bite at his work desk, Santhosh Thomas Elias, 34, quit his job to start A Salad Company with an old colleague Yoga Priya, 32, targeting the IT sector to help them fulfil their nutritional needs on the go. A Salad Company is a no-fuss subscription service that focuses on providing healthy meals, while also ca tering to special diets like Keto, Paleo and more.

Meals are prepared with local ingredients, with no refined flour, sugar or preservatives. One also gets a juice shot with each portion ordered. "The juices are cold-pressed and made using age-old grandmothers' recipes," says Elias. The menu includes several traditional Indian recipes with healthier in gredients. All meals come with a calorie count. Alternatively, one can provide their own per-meal calorie count for them to curate a salad accordingly.

Details: asaladcompany.com

Tel: 9840054533

Price: Rs 168 per meal onwards

Mohan gupta, founder and managing director, Gympac Fitness Systems Private Limited. Photo: Jason G

Fit for life

Gympac Fitness Systems Private Limited

When hitting thegym isn't an option, here's how you can bring the gym home instead. With over 12 branches in the country, Gympac Expeditions, which partnered with premium fitness equipment manu facturer Life Fitness in 2015, caters to all fitness needs big and small. "Your lifestyle may not encourage you to be healthy but we will. We provide equip ment needed for a transformational workout experience. High standards of engineering mean you can get the results in the comfort of your home," says Mohan Gupta, managing director, Gympac Fitness Systems Private Lim ited. Both cardio and strength equip ment are available in a dedicated home range. "The Life Fitness cardio range, including Life Fitness Treadmills and Life Fitness Cross Trainers, is one of the top sellers for professional trainers and athletes because the equip ment is of high quality," he adds. While looking up the website may give you an overview of their equipment, the Life Fitness Concept Store is where you can get hands-on experience.

Details: gympacfitness.com

Price on request

====== 10 ========

OUR PICK OF THE MONTH

A Grand Return

The iconic Taj Connemara dating back to 1854 has reopened its doors to the city after renovations. The modern redesign features influences from the colonial era, art deco elements and architect Geoffrey Bawa.

At Taj Connemara, Binny Road, Anna Salai

Tel 66000000

====== 11 ========

AIMING HIGH: HARENDRA SINGH| Q&A

HARENDRA SINGH, hockey coach, on the upcoming World Cup, ‘simple hockey’, and choking under pressure-(FRANK UIJLENBROEK)

Q. Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Stadium is hosting the Hockey World Cup between November 28 and December 16. What should fans expect?

Hockey India (HI) has become professional and it has rubbed off on the players and coaches unlike 10-20 years ago when things were different. We are currently world No. 5 out of 153 countries and headed in the right direction.



Q. Belgium, Argentina and Australia seem to be the hot favourites for the title. What’s your goal for the Indian team?

All the 16 teams are equally good. This (Indian) team has a burning desire to create history. I always set the highest target.



Q. You often talk about playing simple hockey’. What exactly do you mean by that?

It means pass the ball, run, and then again receive the ball and ask yourself, what next. Don’t play to the gallery and thereby, make your team suffer for it.



Q. How critical is the role of science and technology in Indian hockey today?

I can confidently say that amongst the Olympics disciplines in India, hockey ranks first in imbibing technology and modern science. For the World Cup, we’ve been using modern software and coding system to track players’ training and their preparations.



Q. How will you tackle the Indian team’s knack of choking at the vital point of matches?

Somewhere in our culture, I feel, we tend to over-react in our daily lives, too. When people are caught in traffic, they start driving zigzag instead of sticking to lane driving. Similarly, on the field it’s about staying calm and taking good decisions in the crucial moments.

====== 12 ========

THE DARK UNDERCURRENTS

Followers of stock exchange news are familiar with the calm, authoritative voice of Udayan Mukherjee, respected for his clinical analysis of market trends and restrained predictions. They will be pleasantly surprised to make acquaintance with another side of this well-known journalist, whose debut novel explores the dark areas of buried emotions and uncomfortable family secrets.

A painful journey into the lives of two brothers and the consequences of a terrible secret bequeathed by their parents’ unhappy past lies at the heart of this story. The narrative flits between homes, cities and time to present a nightmare that haunts the protagonist and, like lava, singes whatever it touches. The novel is also a morality tale about the dark side of success and wealth.

In his avatar as an observer of Dalal Street, Mukherjee is bound to have witnessed dozens of cases of burnout and damaged lives. It is, after all, the curse of wealth and success that they extract a horrible price from those who chase them. Perhaps this is why he is so credible when he tracks the descent into the protagonist’s soul-searing loneliness, a spiral that leads to insomnia, alcohol-dependence and an inability to put down roots.

Mukherjee’s documentation of the hollowness that dogs the protagonist and his near-suicidal experiences send a shiver down the spine of the reader, who may have witnessed a dear one grapple with such a state of depression. All of us are familiar with the dark circles that line the faces of our bright young things. Their restless lives stem from an inability to let go and spend time with family and friends. Unable to forge human connections that will give them joy and fulfilment, they float from one place to another haunted by an unnamed dread that they have no one in this world.

Therapists and counselling, sleeping pills and a loss of interest in work and relationships inevitably follow and the book ends on as dark a note as it begins.

Not a cheerful or breezy read, nor even a great existential novel, its pace and honesty grips the reader, making it almost impossible to put it down.

====== 13 ========

ALL THAT PUNK

When they last toured India in 2016, British punk-jazz’ band WorldService Project was as impressed with the audience as the audience was with them. We met people who dropped these references, says keyboardist, composer and frontman Dave Morecroft. [They said,] Oh the first track reminded me of Mr. Bungle’, the second track from the third album of Zappa. Then I heard a bit of Mingus and I love Weather Report. [They] just nailed the references. Even in the UK, it very rarely happens.

The visit was so successful that WorldService Project, which currently also features bassist Arthur O’Hara, saxophonist Ben Powling, drummer Luke Reddin-Williams and trombonist Owen Dawson, will return to India for a six-city trek next month that will include a spot at the Jazz India Circuit International Festival in Goa on December 1. The group, named after the BBC World Service where Morecroft’s father once worked, is the kind that seems ideal for festivals. Their concerts, for which they appear dressed in British military suits representing disillusioned soldiers who’ve broken away from a platoon, fighting our own cause combine technical prowess with striking showmanship.

Fans can expect to hear a number of tracks from their recently released fourth album Serve at the performances, the core elements of which, says Morecroft, are a high energy show with a theatrical edge to it with music that shifts between anthemic rock melodies through to more complicated, improvised sections with some solos. And there’s always a story behind the music, indicated in the name of a song or explained by Morecroft to the crowd.

I talk quite a lot compared to other bands, he says. It changes the way audiences interact with what you’re doing. We have a tune Villain of the Aeroplane’, which by itself [has] an amusing title but as soon as you [say] I wrote this because I hate low-budget European airline Ryanair, because they always charge us to bring instruments on the plane, they don’t look after the guitar, etc. [it] gives the piece a narrative rather than [it] just being sound.

Another feature of their act is Mr Giggles, the creepy clown who represents the dark side of human nature and whom Morecroft transforms into with the help of a mask. The character, he says, has helped provide one of the best moments we ever had at a gig when they played at the Shisha Jazz Café in Pune two years ago. [As Mr Giggles] I started creating a scene and crashing about and stood on this table with my shirt unbuttoned, the mask on, stuff I do normally, he says. It wasn’t anything special but then a woman ran to me, she was middle-aged, I think she was English reached up and wrote the word Evil’ on my bare chest, in lipstick, in giant red letters. Some people asked if I’d asked her to do it but it was impromptu, she just expressed how she was feeling.

Getting such a strong response requires a fair amount of effort, says Morecroft, who frequently travels to India owing to his part-time job as an examiner for Trinity College London’s rock and pop department. The antics are a full workout, he says. I probably lose between 600 and 700 calories per gig. It saves me a gym membership.

====== 14 ========

DEMYSTIFYING DESIGN

Designers Karolina Merska and Kavya Meddappa will showcase their works at the festival

With striking green structures on St Mark’s Road and yards of fabric woven around the town hall, Bengaluru ByDesign is taking over the city from November 23 to December 3.

The goal? Co-founders Suprita Moorthy, 36, and Priyanka Shah Bhandary, 33, set out to make design more inclusive. We want to demystify the idea that design is for everyone, they say in unison. Most design events are niche and often cater to the community only, adds Moorthy.

With a background at Sotheby’s Australia and The Victoria and Albert Theatre Museum, London, Moorthy has been the Programme Director at India Design Forum since 2012. Bhandary worked in branding and design, getting together with Moorthy to realise their common vision of an international design platform in Bengaluru.

All the programming comes from the basic tenets we set out for the event early onimpacting public, business and education, says Moorthy. Hence, the schedule includes everything from public installations and lectures to workshops and challenges. From the venues to the sponsors, the focus on design is clear. Branding exercises too will be in the form of installations and interactive workshops.

For the near future, Moorthy and Bhandary want to put their energies into creating a platform that brings in international participation. We don’t want to set ourselves apart for now. In the future, we want it to be a festival that integrates local design traditions, says Moorthy.

Highlights

Green is the Colour by Total Environment (November 23 to December 2), St Mark’s Circle: An installation of concentric green, ribbon-like structures will pop out on a busy junction

When Buildings Come Alive (November 23 to December 2), Town Hall: Handwoven textiles by Aadyam will be wrapped around the pillars of this historic landmark, woven in the pattern of the act of weaving

Paper Traditions, A Pajoke Workshop (November 24, 10.30 am to 4.30 pm), WeWork Galaxy: Learn the art of Polish chandeliers with London-based designer Karolina Merska

Museum of Everything (November 23 and 24), Kafnu, The Residency: A curated pop-up of sustainable fashion, accessories, home décor and more.

====== 15 ========

DANCE AND DREAM

In 2010, Jayalakshmi Eshwar presented what was billed as India’s first Bharatanatyam fantasy opera. Called Antariksha Sanchar’, it was inspired by Hindu mythology of flight and the Vaimanika Shastra, an early 20th century Sanskrit text that makes the claim that the flying palaces and chariots described in the Mahabharata and Ramayana were advanced flying machines that have been lost in the mists of time.

This winter, the show returns with 3D animation, electronic music by Sri Rama Murthy aka Murthovic and new ideas, including the dream theories of mathematician S. Ramanujan. For Eshwar, this is not radical; it’s just following the diktat of her guru, Rukmini Devi Arundale, so that the classical form remains vibrant. It is the duty of the older generation to keep alive the traditional way of dancing and make the younger generation embrace it, she says.

Presented by Red Bull Music in Mumbai on November 22 and in New Delhi on December 5, the opera uses images from a video game created by Eshwar’s son, Avinash Kumar, to create a multimedia narrative that supplements the classical dance. Co-founder of the audio-visual group BLOT!, Kumar used archival images, folk paintings, 3D models of gods and 3D scans of sights in south India to bridge Indian culture and ancient ideas with modern tools and audiences.

The story has inspired him to make what he calls India’s first cultural adventure video game. In it, Eshwar is one of the characters narrating the story. Seven years in the making, it releases next year. The experience has made him value not only how deep Indian classical arts are but also appreciate his mother’s purist ways. I hope to inculcate the same value in my work, he says.

====== 16 ========

THE MAN WHO WOULD BE QUEEN

Few recent films have so polarised viewers. Critics have trashed it; audiences have been captivated for perhaps the same reasons. Bohemian Rhapsody is not a nuanced art film, a documentary or a biopic. It is glitzy Hollywood mythmaking. Everything else is sacrificed to the demands of the story. But, luckily, the story is magnificent.

The film juggles chronologies, omitting and inventing. Surviving band members Roger Taylor and Brian May were heavily involved and, unsurprisingly, they are presented in the most flattering light. As the film’s Freddie tells Roger, There is only room for one hysterical queen in this band. Freddie’s band mates are wholesome, nerdy, boy-next-door types, dull foils to his mercurial refulgence.

Sacha Baron Cohen, originally slated to play the singer, wanted to emphasise Freddie’s sexual promiscuity and debauched parties, with such antics as Freddie snorting cocaine off the heads of Little People. Instead, we get only glimpses of the excess. In a Dantean scene, Freddie and the Machiavellian Paul Prenter traverse the dimly-lit corridor of a gay club. Freddie is dressed in jeans and black leather like the rest, as if his identity had dissolved amid that of the throng of interchangeable casual lovers. We can guess the rest. We’re all familiar with the excesses of stardom. Cohen’s portrayal would probably have been prurient, rather than revelatory.

Instead, Rami Malek’s Freddie indulges in occasional snark pity your wife if you think six minutes is forever but is often vulnerable. The in-between moments, I find them intolerable, he confesses, amid the wreckage of a wild party, That’s when the sadness comes creeping back in. Is this true to life? It is hard to know: the singer was reticent about his private life. The image he projected was one of irrepressible mischievousness, excess and fun, Phaeton relishing the wild gallop, Icarus with only slightly singed wings. Yet, surely great art can’t be produced by someone completely contented. It is fuelled by longing, and longing implies lack.

Malek embodies Freddie’s distinctive physicality with eerie accuracy. As Malek struts across the stage, Dorian Gray with a half mic, we want to believe in this resurrection, to unwind the centuries and send his ancestors on an epic journey, from Egypt to Persia, to the Gujarat coast, Zanzibar and the Panchgani hills and, finally, to London, Malek’s blue-grey eyes deepening to a Parsi chocolate en route.

I like formulas, declares the record executive, who turns down Bohemian Rhapsody’ as too unconventional. Yet, this film is highly formulaic. Freddie is the son of hardworking Indian immigrants, rejects their conventional lifestyle to follow his dream, captivates the world with his extraordinary talent, almost loses his soul in the process, returns to the warm embrace of his band and then, just after receiving his death sentence, achieves immortality at a legendary concert. It’s clichéd, but it works.

====== 17 ========

NO PLACE TO ESCAPE

Women have a way of taking over Fatima Bhutto’s novels. Her debut was ostensibly about three brothers, but the narrative’s heart and guts (and best lines) belonged to women. Similarly, in a phone interview from London, she said the relationship between two male characters is the core of The Runaways, her second novel. But really it is Layla, a fierce whirlwind of a character, who gives the novel its kinetic drive. Bhutto has said before how Pakistani women have been forced into becoming exemplars of resilience, that their spirit is indomitable.

Bhutto is not being patronising or oblivious to privilege. In The Runaways, Layla’s mother is a poor woman, with two children to feed, who gives massages to fat, rich women in deluxe Clifton houses. It takes a certain indomitability to persevere, to find a way to feed the children, to work despite pain, to put up with ceaseless humiliation. Of course, the Karachi neighbourhood Clifton, specifically the compound at number 70, was the seat of the Bhuttos, the house of Fatima’s grandfather Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, founder of the Pakistan People’s Party. It was the house in which Fatima’s aunt Benazir Bhutto married Asif Ali Zardari. When Fatima’s father Murtaza, the older of Zulfikar’s two sons, was shot in a police encounter in 1996, it was Benazir and Zardari whom Murtaza’s widow held responsible, at least morally. It’s a position Fatima, just 14 when her father died, maintained in her 2010 memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword. She still lives in the house with Ghinwa, Murtaza’s second wife, whom Fatima, born in Afghanistan to Murtaza’s first, calls Mummy.

Wisely, given her family’s turbulent history, Bhutto has chosen to write. She expresses her politics in her trenchant, often acerbic columns and her novels, which seek some ember of human connection in the ashes, the ravages of global politics. The genesis of The Runaways was in a 2014 discussion with European friends about migration that left Bhutto horrified, even a little disbelieving that people thought in this way. She foresaw a novella, but the characters and their journey to Mosul took over. How do young people become radicalised? For Bhutto, writing has to interrogate, it has not only to ask questions of power but also about our choices and responses.

THE RUNAWAYS by FATIMA BHUTTO

The Runaways tells the story of how three young people come to be in Mosul, on the front lines of jihad. One of them, Sunny, grew up in Portsmouth with a Pakistani father. A widower, Sunny’s father is eager to achieve the working class immigrant’s British dream, a life of security and prosperity for one’s children that validates the choice to leave the country of his birth. You have a home, you have a city, a country even a place in the world, Sunny’s father tells him when he shows him the acceptance letter from the University of Portsmouth. His father’s voice, Bhutto writes, broke with emotion. But, for Sunny, it’s not enough. For Sunny, his father’s attempts to integrate, his tentative attempts at moving on after the death of his severe wife, and his rejection of Islam are pathetic, the actions of a floundering man. Filled with an inchoate roiling, Sunny cannot find peace or the answers to the questions that torment him until his cousin Oz returns from Syria.

Monty, another of the protagonists, is the indolent son of a wealthy property developer. His experience of the world is entirely different from Sunny’s, the only humiliation Monty contemplates is what it might look like for their maid to be trailing behind them on Oxford Street. The third main character, Anita Rose/ Layla, is from Karachi, but from the bottom rungs of the social ladder, the misfortune of her poverty multiplied by her Christianity.

The business of the novel is to bring these three together. And what a convoluted business it is.

In conversation, Bhutto is sympathetic, thoughtful and patient even when answering rambling questions. She brings that instinctive sympathy to bear on her writing, relaying the various plights of her young protagonists with unwavering kindness. Bhutto is particularly good at describing loneliness and dislocation. She understands how social media can be used to weaponise’ these feelings, providing the illusion of community. Some of her angriest satire is reserved for the charlatans and opportunists who find validation on social media.

Paced like an airport thriller, The Runaways can also read like one, with its ludicrously engineered plot. Too often it seems like Bhutto is ticking boxes (a dash of repressed homosexuality here, class envy there) and taking aim at caricatures rather than writing people. She is a vivid writer, but her novels collapse under the weight of their geopolitics.

====== 18 ========

WELFARE IS THE WAY FORWARD

On November 1, the riot-affected Muzaffarnagar district witnessed a grand mass marriage programme organised by the Uttar Pradesh government, with some 1,150 women from poor families tying the knot. Archana, 23, who married Anil Kumar, a rickshaw driver from the district, received a cheque of Rs 20,000 and an additional Rs 10,000 worth of household items from the government. "My father is an agricultural worker. Our financial condition would not have allowed us to hold a wedding function," says Archana. "But under this scheme, all my three sisters can be married off comfortably."

One of the first things Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath did after assuming office in March 2017 was order officials to draft a new marriage scheme for poor girls. Six months on, the cabinet cleared a bylaw for the Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana’. "Child marriage still prevails in many rural areas. Often, poor families marry off girls before they have attained the age of 18," says social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri. "The financial assistance offered will encourage people to refrain from illegal weddings."

Mass marriage programmes are organised through urban and rural bodies, such as the nagar panchayat, nagar palika and zila panchayat, as well as by NGOs authorised by district magistrates. "A mass marriage ceremony should have at least 10 couples," says Jagdish Prasad, director, social welfare department. "So far, 21,000 couples have benefitted. The state government’s aim is to have 70,000 beneficiaries under this scheme by the end of the financial year."

Sixteen-year-old Ankush Kumar’s wish to pursue higher education got a shot in the arm on October 2 when he received Rs 50,000 under the scholarship and fee reimbursement scheme. The Class 11 student’s father is a clerk in a pharma company with an annual income of less than Rs 2 lakh. More than 2.2 million students like Ankush benefitted from the scholarship in 2017-18. The scheme has an annual budget of Rs 2,600 crore.

P.K. Tripathi, deputy director in the social welfare department, says: "The scholarship and fee reimbursement is sent directly to the students’ bank accounts, removing all hurdles in availing of the scheme."

====== 19 ========

ON THE HIGHWAY TO HOPE

On March 21, just two weeks after taking oath, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb was in New Delhi where he had meetings with over a dozen Union ministers. On his return to state capital Agartala, he announced: "The Centre has promised to invest Rs 2,587 crore in various schemes and projects in Tripura."

The sense of urgency and purpose was evident as Tripura's development has remained a paradox-the state has shown decent performances in social development indicators but has lagged in infrastructure development.

On multiple social and health indicators, the northeastern state competes with Goa, Kerala, Karnataka and Gujarat-states with high per capita income. It has a literacy rate of 87.8 percent and its sex ratio, at 960 females per 1,000 males, is above the national average of 942. But, at 19.7 per cent, Tripura also has the highest percentage of unemployment in India-four times the national average of 4.9 per cent.

So the top priority of the newly elected BJP government was clear-it had to develop infrastructure and generate employment. Tripura is connected with the rest of the country by a single highway-National Highway 44. The Union road and highways ministry has given assurances that it will develop and extend the national highways in the state with an investment of Rs 12,000 crore. "This will ensure direct or indirect employment for 15,000 to 20,000 youth," says Deb, adding that other central schemes and projects will create employment opportunities for an additional 12,000 people.

Innovative technology is also being used for road development. The chief minister recently asked the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) to construct "at least half a kilometre road" with recycled plastic waste after initiating a door-to-door drive to collect it.

State transport minister Pranajit Singha Roy says the state has a broader vision vis-a-vis developing international connectivity through roads, railways and waterways. In 2016, the central government fulfilled a long-standing demand of the state by providing broad-gauge railway services to the state. A 15-km railway track from Agartala to Akhaura in Bangladesh will be completed by 2020. "This track will connect the northeastern states with the south Asian countries through Bangladesh," says the chief minister.

While dedicating to the people the revamped national highway connecting the Tripura Sundari temple in Gomati district and Sabroom in South Tripura-the 74 km single-lane highway was widened for two-way traffic-President Ram Nath Kovind said it would improve border trade by connecting south Tripura with Bangladesh. "The road leads to an under-construction bridge on the Feni river in Sabroom. Once the bridge is functional, Tripura will be connected to Chittagong," Kovind said.

The state government has also taken initiatives to introduce inland water transport by connecting the Gomati and Haora rivers with the Meghna river in Bangladesh to facilitate movement of goods and passengers between the two countries.

The state has also shown massive improvement in power generation. At 92.7 per cent, access to electricity for households in Tripura is better than the 88.2 per cent national average and comparable with wealthier states like Kerala, Goa, Gujarat and Karnataka.

With an installed power capacity of 727.24 MW, Tripura is a power surplus state, even exporting power to Myanmar and Bangladesh. The Tripura government has also embarked on a plan to provide power connection to more than 50,000 tribal families living in the remote hills by tapping solar energy under the Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya). "We have identified 52,000 beneficiaries spread over 531 villages across the state. Each location has hardly three to seven families residing in the hills. So supplying power from conventional sources via grid would be most inconvenient. Solar energy is the best alternative," deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma, who also holds charge of the power ministry, said recently.

Another welfare scheme which has got a big push from the central government is the LPG distribution to poor families. In Tripura, 922,000 households currently have LPG connections and efforts are on for 100 per cent coverage. The Union ministry for petroleum and natural gas has taken up a pipeline project with Bangladesh for carrying natural gas from Chittagong to Tripura. The Indian Oil Corporation will set up a bottling plant in Agartala by 2020.

For seven consecutive years till 2015, Tripura had been the best performing state in the country in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), a central scheme that guarantees the "right to work". However, in the past two years, the state's performance has dropped because of "curtailed" funds from the Centre. "Funds had to be curtailed because of the discrepancies by the previous Left government. They geo-tagged a lot of areas where no work was done at all," says Devvarma. The state now claims to have received an assurance of Rs 214 crore in MNREGA funds from the Centre.

Another area where the state government is keen to improve the state's performance is in the supply of drinking water. Over 87 per cent of households in Tripura have access to piped or protected sources of water, marginally below the national average of 89.8 per cent.

====== 20 ========

@ YOUR SERVICE

For a state just 53 months old, Telangana has had the opportunity to learn from others and build on it. It had a head start in providing internet-based services to citizens, having been part of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh which pioneered e-governance since the Chandrababu Naidu days. It has also capitalised on the growth impulse of Hyderabad, the largest metropolitan area in the country and capital of united Andhra Pradesh.

Telangana also has a very determined chief minister in K. Chandrashekar Rao. To streamline governance, the CM reorganised the state's 10 districts into 31 in 2016, a promise he had made in his separate statehood campaign. Post-reorganisation, the number of mandals went up to 584, but their number per district dropped from 46 to 19. The state is now in the process of building integrated administrative buildings in all districts, housing offices of all departments, and offering all services, including e-services, under one roof.

On August 29, 2014, the state conducted a Samagra Kutumba Survey in which 400,000 government employees were mobilised to get information on 84 parameters from every household. This gave the state a reliable database, unprecedented in its reach and depth for policy formulation and implementing target-specific programmes.

Telangana has also set up citizen services centres called MeeSeva. A single entry and exit portal, it provides the entire range of government to citizen and government to business services. Some 600 services of 38 departments are offered through 5,073 centres.

"Telangana has led the country in number of e-transactions per 1,000 people in the past four years according to a survey by the eTAAL portal," says the state's electronic service delivery and e-governance special commissioner G.T. Venkateshwar Rao. The state tops with 89,883 transactions for 1,000 persons; followed by Andhra Pradesh (82,868) and Kerala (59,582).

The backbone of this success is the Digital Telangana programme. To ensure digital facilities for all, the Telangana Fiber Grid (T- Fiber) is building a scalable, high-quality, resilient and secure state-of-the-art digital network infrastructure connecting 8.4 million households. T-Fiber will lay fibreoptic cables along the water pipe routes of Mission Bhagiratha, a project for safe drinking water to every household.

To service the needs of rural and non-smartphone users but also catering to the general urban population, Telangana has introduced T-Wallet, the first digital wallet owned and operated by a state government. It is also the first digital wallet to use UID biometric authentication even if a citizen does not have a mobile number.

====== 21 ========

CHENNAI SUPER EXPRESS

A new controversial blockbuster, Sarkar, starring popular hero Vijay, seems to suggest that populism has no place in Tamil Nadu. In reality, this is a state that thrives on nurturing its constituents with sub­sidies and nuanced welfare sch­emes. While the mid-day meal programme for school children and social security (pension) for the elderly-introduced in the 1980s by the late M.G. Ramachandran, founder of the ruling AIADMK-were pioneering initiatives in the country, the state is now implementing many more, some even borrowed from other states, through 31 government departments.

Offering freebies packaged as welfare goods hit new highs between 2006 and 2016. Both the AIADMK and DMK governments pursued this line keenly to reel in voters. While the DMK (2006-11) distributed 11.6 million free colour television sets (spending Rs 3,687 crore), the AIADMK regime that followed (2011-16) handed out 11.7 million fans, mixies and grinders at a cost of Rs 7,686 crore.

"Political parties, in the guise of helping the poor, have fostered a dependence syndrome in the state. Meanwhile, they source sub-standard material as consumer goods through their cronies to help line their pockets and drain public funds. It all reeks of scandal and corruption," says Prof. Ramu Manivannan of the Department of Political Science and Public Administration, University of Madras. Economists and state planners, though, perceive the subsidy culture differently. "The state's record in implementing welfare schemes has contributed to the extremely low rate of multi-dimensional poverty, particularly in areas such as health, education and living standards. It makes a meaningful difference to the quality of life of the poor," Paul Appasamy, a former director of the Madras School of Economics, points out, though he admits that sub-standard consumer durables as a poverty alleviation measure is questionable.

"The state's most vital function is maintaining public order. Unless there is peace, we cannot have social and economic growth. Which is why Tamil Nadu's growth model seeks to achieve development through inclusive growth. The aim is to rid society of inner tensions that may surface in the form of communalism or extremism," explains a senior government official on condition of anonymity. "The switching of parties in power," he goes on to emphasise, "has always been without losing sight of the fun­damentals to ensure Tamil Nadu's growth."

Tamil Nadu is already the second largest contributor to India's GDP, and is among only eight states to rec­ord poverty reduction at a rate higher than the all-India average. The state's per capita income, at current prices, is Rs 1,53,263 (2016 -17), the third highest among large states. Tamil Nadu's Human Development Index is second among large states and its socio-economic development status is again much higher than the national average.

With a population of 72 million, of which 80 per cent is literate and 48.5 per cent urbanised, Tamil Nadu is an innovation-based economy with a strong performance in manufacturing and services. It has a GSDP (manufactu­ring and services) of Rs 8,68,058.8 crore (2016-17) at current prices with a CAGR of nine per cent over the past decade. The services and industry sectors account for 93.8 per cent of the GSDP. The state contributes more than 26 per cent of the national output in paper, machinery, electronics, textiles, auto and auto components and leather products. There are more than 40,000 large in­d­ustries and over 900,000 SMEs. The state has the largest number of factories (17 per cent) and industrial work force (16 per cent) in the country.

Tamil Nadu's strong performance is largely due to its robust infrastructure and transparent regulatory framework. This has contributed to making Chennai the joint third-highest foreign investment destination following Mumbai and Delhi for a cumulative 15-year period (April 2000-September 2015) at $18 billion.

Much of this springs from the vis­­­ion of the late chief minister J. Jaya­lalithaa and her 'Vision Tamil Nadu 2023' document from 2012. Under it, the state adopted multiple strategies to enhance compet­itiveness and efficiency in various sectors. Of the 217 projects identified across 13 sectors, work has been initiated in over 100 on which a decadal investment of a staggering Rs 15 lakh crore is being made since 2012.

Chief Minister E.K. Palaniswami puts it all down to "the state gov­ern­m­­ent effectively articulating the just sen­timents of the people on critical issues, a big reason for Tamil Nadu maintaining public order". The state has largely been free of org­an­i­sed violence. Enhanced financial allocat­ions and welfare measu­res have improved the morale of the police force, essential for better service del­ivery. Women's safety has been a high point. Tamil Nadu was the first state to pioneer all-women police stations and also has the highest proportion of women in the force.

The state is a popular healthcare destination and ranks 'second lowest' in terms of the infant mortality and birth rate, and 'third highest' in terms of life expectancy. The many health welfare programmes have again played a major role in this.

Vision 2023 envisages the state providing 'high quality affordable education' and becoming the country's 'knowledge capital'. There is a major focus on improving the quality of education and ensuring that opportunities are available to all segments of society. Tamil Nadu was No. 1 in the Composite Education Development Index on elementary education. Here again, welfare programmes lead the way. Free laptops, special cash incentives to reduce dropouts at secondary level, free school kits, better infrastructure and recruitment of quality teachers are among the major ones. In the past five years, 74,316 teachers have been appointed to government schools, bringing the teacher-pupil ratio to 1:15, significantly better than the national norm.

From education, development is but the next logical step.

====== 22 ========

SMALL IS BEAUTIFUL

A state dependent on tourism as its principal source of revenue has to be beautiful, hygienic and clean, says A.B. Karki, district collector of West Sikkim.

Truly, Sikkim is as beautiful and pristine as a picture postcard. And it stays that way because it has made it mandatory for its elected representatives to set a good example anyone contesting polls has to have a toilet in their home. Despite such warnings, if people opt for open defecation, the governm­ent makes them ineligible for social welfare schemes, besides emb­arr­assing them on social media. There’s also a spot fine of Rs 5,000.

The same seriousness goes into the campaign to ban plastic. The governm­ent has involved children and even grandparents in the waste to wealth’ drive, which converts used plastic bottles and packets into beautiful objects of art.

You won’t find a single plastic bottle or carrybag littering Sikkim. We engage children and their grandmoms to go plastic hunting. The used plastic is transformed into an artistic creation, such as a basket, a wall hanging, flower pots, etc, Karki says. The district administration, of late, has been encouraging people to plant basil in such plastic pots and gift it to friends.

There’s some thought behind this gift idea too. Basil is considered holy here, and also has medicinal properties. The campaign has generated a lot of interest among people and homes are now nurseries with plastic pots bursting with orchids and basil.

In education, Sikkim boasts of being fully literate. In fact, on August 15 last, it declared itself as having achieved near 100 per cent literacy. The state has a high Gross Enrolment Ratio of 37 per cent as against a national average of 26 per cent. Again, the Gender Parity Index is high111 girls per 100 boys.

The government is receptive to the needs and problems of girl students. This year, the education department has announced setting up sanitary napkin vending machines in all secondary and senior secondary schools. All 726 such schools already have separate toilets for girl students. Amisha Gurung and Jema Rai of Modern Senior Secondary School say that incinerators too have been installed in their school toilets for hygienic disposal of pads.

Corporate funding and Sulabh International have formed a corpus kitty of Rs 80 lakh to instal the vending machines. The government of India, as a token of appreciation, has also sanctioned Rs 1.5 crore, says additional chief secretary of HRD, G.P. Upadhyay.

This apart, girls are being given lessons in self-defence and martial arts. The best part about Sikkim is that it has zero tolerance for atrocities against women. We haven’t had a single case of eve-teasing or violence against women this year, says Upadhyay. There are no major law and order violations and politically, too, peace reigns in the most part, perhaps why the hill state is the preferred tourism destination in the Northeast.

Strengthening of e-governance in areas such as land records, electoral rolls, online vehicle registration, driving licence and a medical database have helped in smooth and prompt delivery of public services. Moreover, a vigorous Right to Information Act (RTI) programme has made the state far more accountable.

Chief Minister Pawan Chamling rang in changes in the Drug Addiction Act 2006 last August. He says he wants people to take a humane approach towards drug addicts instead of treating them as criminals. It should be treated like any other illness, says the CM.

The 2006 Act had strict provisions, treating drug addiction as an offence and advocating six months in jail and heavy penalties for addicts. The Act now focuses on punishing drug peddlers and not the victims. The earlier avatar creating the addicts as criminals had only aggravated the problem, as drug users, fearing jail, were loath to come out and undergo therapy. The hope is that decriminalisation will help drug addicts discuss their problems freely and go for rehab. The government has even promised to reward volunteers and care workers who identify addicts and help in their treatment.

====== 23 ========

CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME

When Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje named a scheme in 2007 after Bhamashah, a man synonymous with charity (he gave his wealth to Maharana Pratap to aid the fight against Akbar), even she wouldn’t have tho­u­ght how much it would transform governance a decade later. Initially, a direct benefit scheme for women where the state would deposit Rs 1,500 as seed money in each recipient’s bank account, today it’s a significant digital empowerment and governance programme. As Raje says, "It’s a game-changer for the betterment of people."

The numbers speak for themselves. Bhamashah’s beneficiaries include 61.5 million people out of a total population of 77 million in 2018 covering 16.7 million families. Officials cannot fudge the figures because the system has recorded the identity of every recipient and family with photographs and other markers. In all, Rs 2,300 crore has been credited into individual accounts of the beneficiaries of 54 schemes.

The government has meticulously integrated this enormous exercise to a larger governance model, largely reducing government officials’ interactions with the beneficiaries. The e-governance model covers 10,000 panchayats where the state has spent Rs 4 crore on an average, a figure which does not include the roads with drains constructed in the majority of villages in the past three years. Some sarpanches and even MLAs and ministers resisted the plan, but Raje pushed it through two years ago. It succeeded because the BJP government had made a certain level of school education compulsory along with one-third reservation for women in panchayat elections. The new panches are educated, many are young and the women constitute 58.293 per cent of them, making Rajasthan the second highest in the country in terms of rural representation of women.

The digitisation of rural Rajasthan has been an extension of the gradual build-up of 55,000 eMitra kiosks-mostly run by formerly unemployed youths-for 550 services. Today, eMitra handles a million transactions every day, from filling online forms and fees for driving licences to getting a reserved category certificate. This has meant considerable saving of time and money for the people and also hit grassroots corruption.

This success encouraged the implementation of the state’s health insurance scheme in December 2015. In three years, it has provided free hospitalisation to 2.7 million patients, paying bills worth Rs 1,952 crore.

The state has also shed its image of stereotyped bureaucratic hurdles in implementing Ease of Business and now stands third in India in the Reforms Evidence scorecard with 99.5 per cent compliance with an overall ninth position win India.

====== 24 ========

SEEDS OF WEALTH

Punjab has an inherent advantage when it comes to agriculture. Besides its fertile soils rejuvenated by rivers flowing down from the Himalayan and Shivalik ranges, the state has also benefited from an extensive canal network as well as a climate that favours multiple crops. But perhaps the single-biggest contributor is its peasantry that's been quick to adapt to new concepts.

Working with a mere 3 per cent of the country's net sown area, Punjab's farmers have successively delivered bountiful harvests that account for 19 per cent of India's wheat and 12 per cent of its paddy production. For every hectare, the Punjabi hinterland produces more than 17 quintals of wheat and 14 quintals of paddy, which is higher than the national average. Also, the agricultural GVA (Gross Value Added) in Punjab accounts for 4 per cent of the total GVA of the country. This, when the state's rural population is a mere 2 per cent of India's population.

A 2014 study by agricultural economists H.S. Shergill and Varinder Sharma estimates that between 1972 and 2012, Punjab tripled its wheat production and increased its paddy harvest by 12 times. Milk production also quadrupled. During this period, Punjab's contribution to the national foodgrains pool rose 21-fold, from 0.9 million tonnes to 19 million tonnes.

The past 19 months under the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government have witnessed record wheat and paddy harvests. Foodgrains production in 2017-18 peaked to 31.7 million tonnes. This paddy season, too, central and state agencies had procured 15.03 million metric tonnes of paddy till November 11.

But despite successive bumper harvests, Punjab's farmers have remained in severe indebtedness. Much of this is consequent to crop (cotton) failures because of spurious pesticides, suspect seeds and procurement prices failing to keep pace with the cost of farm inputs.

Assuming office in March 2017, Amarinder announced a farm loan waiver, pledging to bear liabilities (up to Rs 2 lakh) that small and marginal farmers owed to cooperative banks. To date, 382,000 farmers have been provided relief totalling Rs 1,736 crore. The government has assured marginal farmers waivers worth Rs 1,185 crore owed to commercial banks. State laws have been amended whereby banks can no longer dispossess farmers of their land or have them arrested for failing to repay loans.

Admitting loan waivers are not a final solution, Amarinder says "struggling farmers nonetheless need to be supported". "There's a lasting solution in the recommendations of the M.S. Swaminathan Commission. All we really need is the large-hearted magnanimity to implement them."

====== 25 ========

PACKING A PUNCH

In the current political environment, where vitriol has become an integral part of discourse between rival politicians, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's congratulatory message last month to Puducherry's Congress chief minister V. Narayanasamy was a welcome aberration. "Narayanasamyji, kudos to you for leading from the front and inspiring others to strengthen the movement to clean India," Modi tweeted after Narayanasamy's video, in which he is seen entering a clogged drain barefoot with a shovel in hand to clear the blockage, went viral.

The video was part of Modi's 'Swachhata hi seva' movement launched ahead of Gandhi Jayanti. Narayanasamy's hands-on approach on swachhata has left a stamp across Puducherry. "The central government chose 52 schools across the country with the best cleanliness record. Seven of them are from Puducherry," Narayanasamy told india today. "One school from Puducherry topped the list, scoring 100 per cent."

Though their bitter feuds have often made headlines, the chief minister and Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi seem to be working in tandem on this mission. Spotting garbage dumped in the premises of the power department's main office recently, Bedi ordered an immediate clean-up with the help of the office staff and even directed them to ensure that the premises remained neat and tidy.

Puducherry has already been declared open defecation-free (ODF). Till date, 27,965 household toilets have been built in the rural parts; in the urban areas, 935 household toilets and 57 community toilets have been constructed. The focus is now on maintaining the ODF status. With door-to-door waste collection and a scientific processing and disposal of waste, Puducherry aims to successfully achieve 'ODF+' and 'ODF++' status under the Swachh Bharat Mission.

In the healthcare segment, Puducherry has surpassed India's performance on most indicators. Its infant mortality rate is 16 per 1,000 live births, while India's average is 41. Almost 100 per cent of births take place in health institutions and 91.3 per cent of children are immunised. The national figure for institutional births is 78 per cent and 62 per cent for immunisation.

Critics attribute Puducherry's successes on the health front to its tiny population-1.24 million people with a population density of 2,598 persons per sq. km. In contrast, Delhi accommodates 16.8 million people with 11,297 persons living in every sq. km. While population size has been to Puducherry's advantage, its success is also the result of government policies and efficient management of resources. The state has been spending higher per capita on health than several richer and bigger states, regularly filling up vacancies and setting up adequate number of medical colleges.

Puducherry spends 1.85 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on health, compared with 0.86 per cent by Delhi and the average 0.74 per cent by other major states, according to the National Health Profile of India, 2017. At Rs 2,778 per person, its per capita health spending is 28 per cent more than Delhi's and 98 per cent more than the major states. The Ayushman Bharat Yojana covers 130,000 people under central grant. The administration has extended the scheme to the remaining population at its own expense. There is statistical evidence that higher spending results in better health outcomes. For instance, the Union territories and the northeastern states spend more on healthcare and report better health indicators than other Indian states.

The spending is also supported by a robust health infrastructure in Puducherry. It has one government medical college, seven private medical colleges and the central government-run Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER). These institutes offer 1,000 seats in undergraduate medicine courses and 720 seats in undergraduate nursing courses. In fact, there is surplus manpower in healthcare. Instead of 24 medical officers required as per the Indian Public Health Standards issued under the National Rural Health Mission, the state has 48 doctors. There are 109 female health workers, more than double the required 54.

What also makes a difference is that the Puducherry government recruits more permanent staff than contractual workers. For instance, over 70 per cent of the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) were given regular appointments while over 96 per cent of staff nurses and pharmacists are regular employees, says the state health department.

LEADING THE CHARGE CM V. Narayanasamy cleans a clogged drain in Nellithope on October 2, 2018

In the agricultural sector, the government has been focusing on making the state a hub of organic farming. Narayanasamy expects officials of the agriculture department to be hands-on. "Officials of the department should not sit and look at files alone. They have to go into the fields and encourage farmers. There is a wide gap and it has to be filled. The Puducherry government is ready to extend all support to the initiative," the chief minister recently told them in public.

While agriculture minister R. Kamalakannan was recently seen bare-bodied, working with farmers in his constituency Thirunallar, his ministry has been extending support to private organic farming initiatives. Last year, six young men, mostly engineering graduates, persuaded farmers in Seliamedu village to shift to organic farming with the assurance to procure the paddy produced.

Nineteen farmers came together to raise paddy on 32 acres using organic manure. The agriculture department extended support. The first harvest was completed last month in the presence of Narayanasamy and social welfare minister M. Kandasamy. The rice was sold in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, in gunny bags tagged 'Seliamedu Rice'. "From 32 acres, these youngsters, with our support, now plan to extend the project to 1,000 acres," says Narayanasamy.

Despite the string of successes, the chief minister is far from complacent. During the Farm Fest 2018 held earlier this year in Puducherry, Narayanasamy said: "At least 75 per cent of the flowers, vegetables and fruits for the show should be from Puducherry. I can only give 50 per cent marks to the agriculture department this year."

====== 26 ========

CRIME PATROL

While most states have seen a rise in crime rate over the years, Nagaland has seen a decline in recorded crimes between 2015 and 2016, reveals the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2016 data. In 2014, the number of crimes (registered under the Indian Penal Code and special local laws) in the state stood at 1,669; it rose to 1,928 in 2015, and came down to 1,908 in 2016. This figure has placed the state at the bottom of the list on the number of crimes across states. Nagaland recorded the third-lowest number of crimes, just above Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Lakshadweep.

The state has also recorded the lowest number of crimes against women in the country. The worrisome part, however, is that though the state fares better than the others, the number of crimes against women has been increasing in recent years. In 2014, 68 crimes against women were reported (IPC+ SLL) in the state, while the next year it rose to 91. In 2016, Nagaland recorded 105 crimes against women. Of all these recorded cases, the police disposed of 102 in 2016.

The same year, the courts completed trials in 55 cases of crimes against women, with 23 convictions, bringing the rate of conviction in Nagaland to 41.8 per cent.

The government has set up three all-women police stations at Dimapur, Kohima and Kiphire in an apparent move to deter crimes against women.

Due to the presence of a number of rebel groups, extortion and kidnapping contribute significantly to Nagaland’s crime rate.

The state government has positioned 14 highway patrol vehicles along the state highways to curb criminal activities. These vehicles are particularly meant for patrolling areas in Kohima and Dimapur, which top the list of the number of crimes recorded in the state.

The state has also launched a tourist police, a special squad that will ensure the safety of tourists visiting Nagaland.

====== 27 ========

HARVEST GOLD

Even as poor agricultural growth compels the Union and state governments to plan revival strategies for the politically sensitive sector, at least one state has bucked the trend for years. In fact, Madhya Pradesh's agricultural growth story has offered other states a template to get their act together.

Though sceptics have often questioned the claims made by the MP government, a string of Krishi Karmanya Awards by the Centre has come as an endorsement of the state's achievements. Large tracts of land along the Narmada have been brought under basmati rice cultivation in the past decade or so. The crop shift will throw up critical challenges in the future, such as depletion of the water table but, for now, it has ushered in prosperity among farmers in the districts of Raisen, Hoshangabad, Harda, Bhopal, Sehore, Vidisha and Narsinghpur. However, the state government has failed to resolve legal issues, with basmati from MP in danger of not being recognised as basmati paddy at all.

On other fronts, though, such as increasing the area under irrigation, the government appears to have done well. The area under irrigation has increased from 7.5 lakh hectare to 40 lakh hectare. Completion of pending irrigation projects and successful implementation of a World Bank-aided water restructuring project have paid dividends. Farmers have been able to shift to two crops and, in many instances, to three crop cycles, in a calendar year. It has also enabled a shift to irrigation-intensive high yielding varieties of wheat, which in turn has enhanced production and incomes.

A key intervention has been the availability of farm credit at zero per cent interest since 2012-13, making it easier for farmers to invest in seeds, fertilisers and mechanised tilling and sowing. Earlier, farm loans from state cooperative banks were available at 5 per cent interest. "About 5.4 million Kisan Credit Cards have been issued to farmers in the state. In 2016-17, nearly Rs 12,000 crore was disbursed," says minister for cooperation Vishwas Sarang. The state-run cooperative banks account for about 70 per cent of the Kisan Credit Cards distributed.

With about 95,000 square kilometres or 30 per cent of its total geographical area under forests, environment has a critical bearing on both the state's politics and economy. MP has about 12 per cent of the country's forest area. Among the states, it has the maximum area under forest cover. With a population of about 72.6 million in the 2011 census, the per capita availability of forests is 2,400 square metres, against the national average of 700 square metres.

For the past year-and-a-half, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has been working to control pollution in the major rivers, particularly the Narmada. Even though Chouhan's Narmada Yatra has been touted as a political programme, it appears to have helped raise awareness about protecting the river's ecology.

Under the 'zero liquid discharge' concept, industries have been instructed to ensure maximum use of treated water in their processes. Seventy-six major rivers in the state are being monitored for water quality. Discharge from the Security Paper Mill at Hoshangabad and Orient Paper Mill at Amla into the Narmada and Sone rivers respectively is now down to a fourth. This has improved the water quality in these rivers to 'fit for drinking'. Water in the Kshipra, Betwa and Tapti has improved to 'fit for bathing'.

"The Narmada, which is not a glacial river, is the state's lifeline as it has cultural and economic importance. The focus on cleaning up the rivers, especially the Narmada, is paying dividends. There will be more improvement in the months to come," says principal secretary (environment) Anupam Rajan. The state pollution control board had identified 20 polluted stretches in prominent rivers. These have reduced to six because of the control on effluents and the shutting down of polluting industries.

Since May 2017, the state has imposed a ban on manufacturing, storage and sale of polythene. It all began in 2016 with the ban on the use of polythene at religious places and during the Simhastha fair in Ujjain. Through the ban is far from complete on the ground, there has been a definite curtailment in polythene use.

In 2008, MP became the first state to start co-processing of plastic waste in cement kilns. Ten plants have so far processed plastic waste to the tune of 52,000 metric tonnes. Of late, disposal of solid waste has become a major issue in urban centres. An 11 MW waste-to-energy plant has been established in Jabalpur and another one is proposed at Bhopal. Commercial capital Indore and state capital Bhopal have been adjudged the top two cleanest cities in the country in 2017 and 2018 consecutively. The installation of bag filters and secondary fume extraction system in industries has helped improve air quality in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Rewa, Sagar and Ujjain. One aspect where the state is breathing easy.

====== 28 ========

INTO A GREEN HEAVEN

Being one of India’s most scenic and naturally affluent states, it’s hardly a surprise that this northeastern hill state scores highly on environmental parameters. To protect, propagate and develop wildlife and its environment, the state government has notified 10 protected areas in the state-covering 8 per cent of the total geographical area. A key factor in protecting the environment was the implementation of the New Land Use Programme (NLUP) in 2011. It discouraged jhum cultivation, which adversely affects soil health.

Mizoram also adopted the New Development Policy (NEDP) in 2016, which changed the way resources were allocated for development in the state. "With the introduction of NLUP and NEDP," Mizoram chief minister Lal Thanhawla said, "Mizoram is one of the highest growing economies of the country." The state clocked growth rates of over 8 per cent between 2013 and 2016. The recent Magnetic Mizoram Investors Summit, the chief minister added, promised investments of Rs 600 crore in solar energy and Rs 1,500 crore in the hospitality sector.

A key area of focus in the NEDP is entrepreneurship development. Its Entrepreneurship Development Scheme (EDS) is being implemented through the Mizoram Entrepreneurship Development Monitoring Committee (MEDMOC) to equip applicants with requisite skills for starting their own venture and providing them with institutional and knowledge-based support to run their businesses successfully.

According to MEDMOC officials, the programme is meant to groom the budding entrepreneurs of Mizoram and will be administered by IIM Calcutta. One of the key components of the scheme is the Micro Startup Capital Competition or Mizoram Rabhi (rabhi means stepping stone in Mizo language), which aims to provide micro funding to potential and promising start-up ventures. The initiative goes beyond funding as a mechanism for monitoring the progress of the ventures has been put in place.

Three Micro StartUp Capital Competitions have been held so far. In another huge step towards building an entrepreneurship ecosystem in the state, Mizoram Kailawn 2018, the first-ever business plan competition and entrepreneur summit, was organised this year. The summit received 330 entries, with the business plans spanning sectors such as agriculture, construction, skill building, handicrafts, tourism and recycling.

The other initiatives under EDS include administrative reforms in the Ease of Doing Business, strengthening infrastructure for entrepreneurs and farmers, preparing an entrepreneurship manual, setting up an entrepreneurship knowledge centre for providing handholding support services and data bank, conducting a need-based entrepreneurship and skill development programme, conducting exposure trips for potential entrepre­neurs, a tie-up with the Mizoram University Incubation Centre and the IIM Calcutta Innovation Park.

====== 29 ========

STRIKING DEEP ROOTS

In an interview just after taking charge of the state in March, Chief Minister Conrad K. San­gma outlined his top priority-sector-specific policies, especially for agriculture.

More than 70 per cent of the state's population is still dependent on agriculture for livelihood. "Development of agriculture will provide job opportunities, food security for the state, and enhance the finances of farmers," says Sangma.

In April, the government launched Mission Lakadong to register a five-fold increase in the production of the local Lakadong turmeric-said to have the highest curcuminoid content and major health benefits to at least 50,000 metric tonne per year in the next five years. The government proposes an investment of Rs 75 crore for its promotion.

Meanwhile, the draft policy for Mushroom Mission has a goal to produce 5,000 metric tonnes in five years. The state agriculture department will invest Rs 50 crore in 136 villages for this.

Likewise, the Jackfruit Mission aims to stop the loss of around Rs 400 crore a year incurred due to wasted fruit. A Rs 80 crore investment over five years is planned, and will involve 82,000 farmers, create 50 small enterprises and 200 home-scale nano enterprises.

The Sangma government has also made functional the Integrated Technology Enabled Agriculture Management System (iTeams), a phone helpline to conn­ect farmers to markets. More than 15,000 farmers have already signed up.

About 46,951 hectares of farmland has been brought under organic farming. The target is to spread organic production to 2 lakh hectares by 2020. More than 35,000 farmers are now under the purview of this mission.

Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh announced a Rs 215 crore project through the National Cooperative Development Corporation for the Meghalaya Milk Mission. It will provide training and funds to dairy farms, chilling centres and purchase of cattle.

====== 30 ========

AUSTERITY BREEDS PROSPERITY

In 2016-17, Maharashtra registered 10 per cent economic growth, as per its economy survey report. Having received 94 per cent of the annual average rainfall, the state recorded an agricultural growth of 12.5 per cent during the same period while the industry and services sectors registered growth of 6.5 and 9.7 per cent, respectively.

The state’s decision to reduce the number of permissions from 75 to 23 to start new businesses has also paid off. During the past four years, it has received foreign investment worth Rs 3,94,886 crore, which, according to the RBI, is 31 per cent of the total foreign investment in the country. Industry minister Subhash Desai says the state is at the number one position not only in getting foreign investment but also in converting investment intention’ into real investments.



State finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar attributes the state’s success in improving its economy to three characteristics: PQS, or Planning, Quality and Speed. For the next year, growth is expected to be at 7.3 per cent in spite of the huge amount spent on the farmers’ loan waiver as well as rain deficiency. The state’s revenue has increased by 39.5 per cent in the first quarter of this year as compared with the first quarter of last year because of the Goods and Service Tax (GST). The state also earned revenue worth Rs 25,742 crore between April and June 2017. This year, it earned Rs 35,915 crore during the same period.

The state faced its biggest financial challenge in 2017 when it announced a loan waiver of Rs 32,000 crore for farmers. However, it managed to save around Rs 11,000 crore by identifying ghost farmers’ accounts and by linking the loan waiver scheme to mandatory disclosure of identity of the beneficiaries. Further, as more than 50 per cent of the beneficiary farmers did not opt for the one-time settlement scheme, the state did not pay them the loan waiver amount.

"There is no dearth of money, but we have focused on austerity," says Mungantiwar.

====== 31 ========

NOTHING TO WASTE

The Kerala model’ of development has been a subject of discussion even globally, but the state has struggled in one area, effective waste management systems. Being a high density population state (860 people per sq. km), managing bio and non-biodegradable waste is a huge challenge for local self-government (LSG) bodies. The state floated the Clean Kerala Company Ltd to facilitate scientific waste management practices in collaboration with Kudumbashree, the poverty eradication mission.

Central Kerala’s Alappuzha Mun­i­cipal Council set the template with the Nirmala Bhavanam Nirmala Nagaram (Clean Homes Clean City) mission in 2012, adopting decentralised waste management with people’s participation in its 52 wards. It was so successful that the UN Environment Programme recognised it as the best global model’ for sustainable solid waste management. Now 80 per cent households have set up subsidised biogas plants and segregate the waste at source. Apart from this, pipe compost units, aerobic composting units in public places and monitoring against public littering through CCTVs have helped. State finance minister Dr Thomas Isaac, who represents Alappuzha constituency, leads the project from the front. Designing locally sustainable models, people’s participation, manage the waste at the source level, these were crucial for the mission’s success, says Dr Isaac.

The Alappuzha model’s success led to other LSG bodies using its methods to manage their waste. Kerala also set up a Haritha Karma Sena, part of the Haritha Kerala (Green Kerala) Mission for waste segregation and collection in all local bodies.

After the 2018 floods, rebuilding Kerala has its own huge challenges. Innovation has been key here. Our attempt now is to create a global model from Kerala through innovation, public participation and responsible government action to make the state more clean and green, says Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.

Managing plastic waste will be crucial for the plan to succeed. The Left Front government has banned sale of plastic below 50 microns, and a state order to use shredded plastics for road construction has been a big bonus. Now 56 plastic shredding units are operating in the state and 125 units are to start production soon.

====== 32 ========

READY, GET SET, START-UP

The change of guard does not seem to have dimmed Karnataka’s entrepreneu­rial spirit, especially in Bengaluru. There are ever more start-ups registering for business, a reflection of the new Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government continuing the pro-entrepreneur policies of the previous regime. In the past 2-3 years, special emphasis has been given to women leaders, technology and innovation and e-commerce to drive entrepreneurial growth. The focus is now on encouraging start-ups to go beyond Bengaluru.

A few ministries like social welfare are actively trying to make entrepreneurship inclusive through incentive programmes. The recently launched Unnati scheme is aimed at creating end-to-end infrastructure for start-ups and entrepreneurs from the marginalised sections of society. Likewise, under the Airavata scheme, the government has partnered with cab aggregators to provide employment to the Dalit community. The long-term plan is to see success stories among the SC/ ST communities. We want economic opportunities and income levels to improve in other towns, says Karnataka social welfare minister Priyank Kharge.

Two weeks ago, the Samruddhi scheme was launched where private enterprises will train youths from backward communities in skill development and entrepreneurship. Some 30 companies have already signed up for the training programme, which is targeting 25,000 youths.

In manufacturing, the big push is in the areas of LED lights, integrated circuit boards, textiles, mobile phone components manufacturing, sports and fitness goods, and others with a budgetary allocation of Rs 500 crore in 2018-19 for skill development of human resources.

Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Ballari, Ramanagara, Mysuru, Yadgiri, Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts are the focus areas to promote entrepreneurship. In 2017-18, the Centre for Entrepreneurship Development of Karnataka (CEDOK) in association with UNDP implemented the Disha scheme to impart training to entrepreneurs in 16 districts. So far, 32,000 people have benefitted. The government intends to extend this scheme to all districts of Karnataka in 2018-19, targeting 100,000 people.

====== 33 ========

ROAD TO RECOVERY

For a state that was created with much expectation in 2000, Jharkhand did not live up to its promise for 14 years after it came into being. The state saw five chief ministers in that time, none of whom completed a term in office, and three stints of President’s rule. The Raghubar Das-led government is the first stable one Jharkhand has seen, helping it attend to the task of development.

From just 7,939 km of new roads the road construction department built in the 14 years since Jharkhand’s creation, the state made rapid strides in the pace of road development, adding 4,610 km new roads in the past four years. This means 3.3 km of road length is being built every day on an average in the past four years compared to the 1.6 km daily average of the first 14 years.

According to Chief Minister Raghubar Das, rural connectivity was key to the socio-economic development of the state. Better connectivity is a must for efficient delivery of public services and implementation of development programmes, he says. According to the Jharkhand Economic Survey 2017-18, 25,200 of the state’s 36,827 villages have been connected with all-weather roads.

Aware that land was a sensitive issue in the state but at the same time crucial for infrastructure, necessary reforms were introduced to facilitate acquisition and transfer to industrial and government projects. The land reforms department now hands over acquired land to the Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA), the nodal agency for providing infrastructural facilities in industrial areas. A total of 2,817 hectares of land has been transferred to JIADA, which in turn has already allotted 825 ha to various projects. Over 980 ha has been handed over to the National Highways Authority of India, helping it lay 909 km of roads in the past four years.

Jharkhand has also centralised all construction activity, entrusting the Jharkhand State Building Construction Corporation with the task. Work is currently on for projects worth Rs 4,000 crore.

====== 34 ========

THE HEALING TOUCH

Srinagar’s 254-bed GB Pant Hospital, the Valley’s only children’s hospital, used to be a virtual death trap for infants until 2012. That year alone saw 787 infant deaths, sparking public outrage. The deaths were widely seen to be a consequence of a lack of hygiene coupled with abysmal medical infrastructure and shortage of doctors and paramedical staff.

The change since that fateful year has been nothing short of revolutionary. The paediatric hospital that serves the region’s seven million residents has been given a complete makeover. The old neonatal intensive care unit with five, often non-functional, life support units has been replaced with 21 state-of-the-art ventilators. The hospital now has new diagnostic labs, an oxygen plant and a complete contingent of medical professionals specialising in child healthcare. All this and the newly spruced-up premises, have significantly reduced the infant mortality rate (IMR) by over 50 per cent.

According to the medical superintendent at the hospital, Kawarjeet Singh says, most of the turnaround can be attributed to the funding received under the Centre’s flagship National Health Mission (NHM). He says the hospital has been able to spend Rs 21 crore on equipment, manpower and monetary benefits to patients. This includes the Rs 30,000 annual spend on free medicines and transportation on every neonate.

The IMR has registered a sharp decline across the state from 34 per 1,000 live births in 2016 to just 24. That, rather impressively, is lower than the national average of 37 infant deaths per 1,000 live births. In fact, J&K is among the three top-ranking states for annual incremental performance as per the NITI Aayog’s Healthy States, Progressive India’ health index report.

Masood Rashid, a consultant doctor at the state health department, too, lauds the NHM for ushering in monumental change by extending healthcare to populations in remote areas. They did not have access to healthcare facility, especially in winters. The NHM has provided remote areas with doctors, he says. Bolstered by the positive outcomes, the health authorities have set fresh targets to bring down the IMR from 24 to under 10 by 2022. For this, even district and sub-district hospitals are being equipped with neonatal stabilisation units. Five new medical colleges in the districts will soon be operational, says state health secretary Atal Dulloo, adding that two fully equipped cancer institutes are also planned in the Valley and Jammu at a total cost of Rs 120 crore. The state government will also shortly announce a new health policy.

====== 35 ========

A CLASS APART, LITERALLY

Despite the alternating succession of BJP and Congress governments, the one thing regimes in Himachal Pradesh have been consistent about is the progressively improving status of education. And things are no different under the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government.

From being an almost illiterate state at Independence, Himachal Pradesh is now over 90 per cent literate. This, education secretary Arun Kumar says, comes from consistent 100 per cent enrolment at the primary level and 80 per cent in secondary school. Himachal, he adds, is the first state to achieve a gross enrolment ratio (GER) of 54 per cent.

The state has been decidedly generous with its education budget. For instance, it spends Rs 64.79 crore annually for every 10,000 children in the 6-14 age group, the highest in the country. By ensuring proactive hiring of teachers and their career advancement, the state has achieved a student-teacher ratio of 11:1, the best in the country. Even better: 45 per cent of the children enrolled in educational institutions are girls.

Kumar says a brief dip in primary enrolment was quickly addressed through measures like starting pre-school classes in 3,300 state-run schools. To standardise curricula, the Thakur government has decided to introduce NCERT textbooks from standard one. Training to reorient primary teachers for the purpose is over.

Under the Atal Awasiya Vidya Kendra scheme, fully equipped residential schools will be opened in all 68 assembly constituencies, half of which will be reserved for girls. We intend to make these [boarding schools] capable of standing up to the best, says Kumar.

Another successful exercise, emulated by other states is the periodic state-level assessment surveys (SLAS) for real-time mapping of learning levels in schools. Kumar says the education department is focused on enhancing the happiness quotient’ of students through their involvement in community programmes, yoga and introducing school bag-free’ days.

====== 36 ========

INNOVATION IS THE KEY

In the past four years under the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government, Haryana has created an ecosystem to nurture entrepreneurship and business development. The period has witnessed the state’s rise from relative insignificance to the top ranking in Ease of Doing Business’, alongside Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.

In July, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion assessment under its business reform action plan accorded Haryana a 98.1 per cent score for putting in place policies and processes that make it among the best states to launch and sustain a business. Consider this: with 1,923 new start-ups registered in the state in 2016, Haryana has kept the pace high and presently has 2.3 startups per 100,000 people. Under the Haryana Entrepreneur & Startup Policy 2017, several stakeholders have been invited on board to facilitate start-ups with an emphasis on women entrepreneurs, through local and international linkages.

Taking an early advantage of its proximity to the national capital, Haryana has established the Haryana State Electronics Corporation Limited (Hartron) Electronic City in Gurugram as a flatted factory complex’. Here, entrepreneurs have been offered plug-and-play facilities to establish new ventures. The 30,000 square feet Hartron Multiskill Development Centre (HMDC) built on 3.4 acres of land houses an innovation and start-up hub. Inaugurated in April this year, it was set up in association with NASSCOM (National Association of Software and Service Companies) and IAMAI (Internet and Mobile Association of India). The facility has some 37 start-ups under incubation.

The HMDC also has India’s second Centre of Excellence in the Internet of Things (CoE-IoT); an academy for training and research on technological solutions at the grassroots. Ankur Gupta, who heads the state’s electronics and information technology department, says that Haryana’s model of linking entrepreneurs with academia and facilitating locally relevant start-ups has been presented to a number of other states. Haryana’s efforts to handhold start-ups have been hailed by the UN Office of Information and Communications Technology. The state government is in the process of setting up a United Nations Technology Innovation Lab at the HMDC campus. The project is aimed at raising a $5 million fund for start-ups by women.

====== 37 ========

EVERY DROP COUNTS

Many thought that after Narendra Modi moved to the Centre as prime minister, Gujarat would slow down. But the state has continued to grow, particularly in infrastructure, including drinking water, irrigation, roads and industrial and agricultural development. Examples include the Narmada dam-based Sauni Yojana to tackle the water issues in Saurashtra, now in its second phase. Total investment is now Rs 13,000 crore in a span of five years. The area will finally irrigate 560,000 acres.

Similarly, in drinking water infra­structure, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has made very specific interventions. Based on micro surveys, he has launched schemes to cover areas left out earlier. A Rs 2,624 crore scheme will cover the tribal belt of Dohad, Chhota Udepur and Mahisagar districts in north Gujarat and Valsad and Tapi districts in north Gujarat. As Rupani says, Our objective is to make Gujarat both power and drinking water surplus. It is already a power surplus state. The Narmada dam and related projects now cover 10,000 of the 18,000 villages and 150 of the total 170 towns in the state.

In terms of road infrastructure too, Gujarat has done well, even winning an award for implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. Close to 2,172 km of state highways have been done up during 2017-18. In industrial infrastructure, too, clearances for turning agricultural land into non-agriculture for industrial infrastructure, a major source of corruption earlier, have been moved online. The chief minister himself reviews all projects over Rs 500 crore every fortnight in a meeting.

This has produced results. Maruti Suzuki has announced its third expansion plan at Becharaji in north Gujarat, once a backward region. Says industries commissioner Mamta Verma: For industry, the easing of processes in sec­uring permissions is really appealing.

====== 38 ========

HIGH TIDE

Before he fell ill in February this year, Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar had ensured the economy and tourism sectors were in order. Against tremendous pressure by activists, he had tried to keep the iron ore mines operational before the Supreme Court banned mining. He steered the state’s entertainment sector clear by promoting casinos in spite of staunch opposition over gambling being a social evil.

Parrikar’s firm stand paid off. The state registered an annual economic growth rate of 8.8 per cent last year. And it grew with the help of strong performances in three sectors, tourism, mining and pharmaceuticals. With a growth of 15.6 per cent, Goa’s Gross State Dom­estic Product (GSDP) was Rs 51,692 crore in 2016-17. It increased to Rs 70,257 crore in 2017-18.

While mining added revenues of Rs 1,000 crore, the five offshore and 14 onshore casinos contributed Rs 150 crore to the state exchequer. That gambling brought in the tourists as well as domestic players was evident at Casino Royale, a liner docked in the Mandovi river in Panaji. Both decks of the casino ship were chock a block with gambling enthusiasts.

Foreign investors have invested $970 million in the state since April 2000. Merchandise exports from the state reached $2.1 billion in 2017-18. The state government has made a provision of Rs 981 crore to turn capital Panaji into a smart city’ with focus on entertainment, hospitality and public transport.

Goa’s basic infrastructure too, especially the roads, is in good shape. A 100 per cent electrified state with an installed power generation capacity of 549.41 mega watt, it has ample power. Transmission lines, though, are weak and the cause for power cuts in various parts. This has affected industrial production too. Power minister Nilesh Cabral says the state is looking at a public-private-partnership project to replace the lines. The scenario will improve in six months, he says.

When it set up a plant to generate electricity from garbage at Saligao in 2016, the Goa government was looking at two-fold benefits reduce the amount of trash piling up and becoming self-reliant in power. The plant became operational in January 2017 and produces 4,000 units of electricity every day, processing nearly 125 tonnes of garbage from the northern coastal towns. Naturally, it’s come as a big relief to the coastal panchayats struggling with tourist-generated garbage.

The garbage disposal system run by the Panaji city corporation too has yielded results. Segregating the dry, wet, organic and inorganic waste by colour coding each has helped in disposal. It has also encouraged housing societies to instal plants to convert solid waste to fertiliser.

The government is also focusing on improving services in rural areas. The revenue department’s Gramin Mitra’ scheme is now delivering doorstep services to residents. These include issuance of key documents like property papers, residential, income and birth certificates. The project has been an e-governance success, says state revenue minister Rohan Khaunte.

The new out-patient department at the well-equipped Goa Medical College has helped the poor get free medical treatment on time. Health minister Vishwajeet Rane says the state has decided to charge non-Goan patients as we can no longer afford free treatment for outsiders.

The state passed the Town and Country Planning Amendment Bill which will benefit owners of 7,630 hectares of land as it paves the way for individual change of land use. The bill will help a large number of land owners seek re-classification of their lands for construction on them.

The government, though, is still to unlock the 22 lakh square metre of land held up in the Special Economic Zone. A decade ago, the state had acquired 34 lakh square metre of land for its SEZ, which never took off. The land has been lying vacant since then. Parrikar had restarted the process last year to reacquire 22 lakh square metre of the land and hand it over to the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). But the IDC has to shell out Rs 256 crore for the reacquisition. If the land in Verna, Sancoale and Keri is made available, more industrial units could be set up, leading to job creation, says Sandip Bhandare, chairman of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industries.

Goa’s tourism sector witnessed a new high in 2017 when it recorded a rise of 22.98 per cent in arrivals. A record 7,785,693 tourists landed in the state last year. A major reason for the success story is the improved infrastructure in the hospitality sector.

New-age initiatives like water sports, dolphin sightings and water rafting have found many takers. The Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) has even tied up with a top adventure sports video company which does personalised videos for tourists of their rafting experience. We have grown not only in numbers but also in terms of infrastructure, initiatives of all kinds, strengthened safety measures while also providing a clean environment, says tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar.

Apart from adventure sports, Goa has been offering tours for bird watchers of late. The state hosts 458 bird species and has seven bird sanctuaries. Apart from all this, the state’s compliant app’ is now a hit among tourists. Tourists can file complaints against errant tour or taxi operators, even check status of complaints through the app.

Goa has also signed agreements with several European and Latin American countries to promote its tourism there. By next year, the promotions should deliver results.

====== 39 ========

THE POWER CAPITAL

As a city-state, Delhi is transforming itself from being a traders’ hub to an entrepreneurial powerhouse. India created eight unicorns between 2012 and June 2018, and Delhi led with five-Snapdeal, OYO, One 97 communications, Zomato and Shopclues. What has added to the growing entrepreneurial energy of Delhi is the easy mobility aided by an expanding metro and road network.

Delhi is recognised as the best performing state among small states in infrastructure and entrepreneurship and the most improved state in health. Nearly 100 per cent of Delhi households have electricity and a significantly higher number of people use mobile phones. It also has a relatively high life expectancy at 74.

The Delhi government has tied up with 41 private hospitals to facilitate 30 surgeries free of cost for patients referred to by government hospitals in the capital as part of its quality health for all’ scheme. The government is also working on expanding its mohalla clinic network by setting these up at metro stations.

Relatively lower rental costs in Delhi-NCR offer lucrative opportunities for services businesses. Delhi has nearly 30 per cent of its workforce qualified for occupations such as engineering, medicine, law and consultancy. According to the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, the FDI inflows in Delhi, including parts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, stood at $79.76 billion between April 2000 and June 2018.

Nearly 23 per cent of the startups in the country are concentrated in Delhi-NCR. In 2016, the Delhi government launched an incubation policy and distributed seed money of Rs 1.5 crore each to six higher education institutions. "The Delhi government will pitch in every time there is a good idea and a good plan," Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said at the launch of the scheme.

====== 40 ========

GIVING THEM THEIR DUE

Chhattisgarh is a relatively new state but it has been at the forefront of launching initiatives that have received praise from across the country. Inclusive development has been a trait associated with Chhattisgarh right from its inception. The revenue acc­­rued from mineral wealth mining, used judiciously, has had a big hand in this.

The District Mineral Foundation (DMF) was created specifically to give back to areas where mineral wealth is exploited, helping the state achieve numerous social sector targets. Simply put, the DMF is a not-for-profit body with contribution from the district’s miners. In Dantewada, home to the famous Bailadila iron ore mines, the DMF has created assets not seen in even so-called prosperous districts. The fully staffed district hospital is one such initiative, so is the education city developed at Jawanga, which has earned the district administration national awards. The district is using the DMF to even create livelihoods, from rearing of livestock to call centres.

Promoting cleanliness has also been a state priority and has achieved interesting results, especially in the construction of toilets in urban areas, waste management and toilets for girls in schools. The turnaround is most visible in its smaller urban centres. None of the million-plus cities in the state figure in the top ranks in the Centre’s Swachh Survey 2018 but a whopping seven towns with a population of less than 100,000 including Jashpur, Saraipali and Birgaon figured in the top ten. The number goes up to 25 in the top 100 list.

How was this achieved? Chhattis­g­arh, with its hilly and forested ter­r­­ain, never saw open defecation as an issue till the time it became a national programme. But once it did in 2016, the results starting pouring in. We ensured that systems were process and not personality driven, that programmes were not dependent on one person taking care of things. This ensured results uniformly across urban bodies, says Niranjan Das, secretary, urban administration.

By 2017, the results began showing. Ambikapur, a town with a population of about 150,000, was adjudged the cleanest city in the sub-200,000 population category. The Ambikapur model was then adopted as a template across the state. Ambikapur also won the award for the best city in innovation and best practices by the Union urban development ministry in 2018.

The model entails collection and segregation of waste at source by trained women from self-help groups (SHGs). The women collect about 45 MT of waste every day. Earlier, the municipal body was spending Rs 1.25 crore in managing waste. Now it earns about Rs 7 lakh as user charges and sells the segregated waste for about Rs 1-3 lakh per month. The waste management initiatives provide employment to more than 9,000 women and cover 4.5 million households collecting 1,400 tonnes of waste every day. About 87 per cent of the waste generated in the state is being used, adds Das. For the bigger municipal bodies, Chhattisgarh plans to use waste to generate electricity. A refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant has been proposed at Raipur while the one at Bilaspur is already up.

There are challenges that remain. Chhattisgarh, with an urban population of 23 per cent, needs to plan its future since migration to urban areas is a continuous process. We have a vision document that takes into account these challenges, says Das. All infrastructure, including housing projects, created is being done with an eye on the future.

The rural development department has ensured that drinking water supply and sanitation in rural areas are developed. The Ujjwala scheme, promoting the shift of households to clean LPG, has reached out to even remote villages in the north and central parts.

The revamping of the public distribution system (PDS) is another step that has helped the state attain inclusive development. While Chhattisgarh has pushed an aggressive agenda for industrialisation and added immense generation capacity on the energy front, the leakages in the PDS were cut down by 82 per cent by 2011-12 to ensure that subsidised foodgrains reached the targeted beneficiaries. The results are there for all to see.

====== 41 ========

SCRIPTING A NEW FUTURE

With a young population (15-24 years) of around 17.5 million, or almost 17 per cent, Bihar, under Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, set education as a priority sector early on. Statistics show that the efforts have paid off. For instance, the state’s literacy rate shot up from 47 per cent in 2001 to 61.8 per cent in 2011. Bihar’s decadal (2001-2011) growth rate in literacy has been the highest among all states. Also, the 17.9 per cent jump in female literacy during the period is much higher than the 10.9 per cent registered for the entire country.

This is not all. Dropout rates in Bihar have fallen steadily in recent years. At the primary level, the dropout rate fell from 39.3 per cent in 2010-11 to 25 per cent in 2015-16-down by over 14 percentage points. In upper primary, the dropout rate fell by 12.9 percentage points in the same period, from 55.1 per cent to 42.2 per cent. The dropout rates of girls are lower than of boys at all levels of education (elementary, secondary and higher secondary).

Expenditure on education increased from Rs 14,946 crore in 2013-14 to Rs 19,713 crore in 2016-17, with 70.4 per cent allocated to primary education alone. The number of primary and upper primary level schools together increased from 68,323 in 2011-12 to 72,530 in 2015-16.

The Bihar government has launched the Bihar Student Credit Card Yojana to help students fund their higher education. Those who passed Class 12 and are below 25 years of age can avail of loans for academic, business, professional or technical courses. In case of default, the government will provide a maximum guarantee of Rs 4 lakh.

In April, the Nitish government set up the Bihar State Education Finance Corporation to facilitate loans for students. "Girls, transgenders and differently abled students willing to pursue higher education will have to pay just 1 per cent interest on their education loans; for others, it would be 4 per cent," says Kumar. According to the chief minister, after significantly raising enrolment at the primary and upper primary levels, the government’s next aim is to increase the gross enrolment ratio (GER) for higher education-currently 14.3 per cent against the national average of 24 per cent-to 30 per cent.

When it comes to higher education, Bihar has 23 universities, including an open university. There are 15 research institutes as well. In 2016, the state had 276 government colleges and 478 local colleges. The number of engineering colleges rose from 10 in 2013 to 28 in 2016. As many as 87 colleges and seven universities enjoy accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). There are 60 training institutes to train school teachers.

====== 42 ========

MAKING OF A RICH BREW

One of the languages that saw a significant surge in south India-according to the Language Census 2011 data released in June-was Assamese. This finding was not surprising because, every year, Assam sees a massive outbound migration of job-seeking youth from the state. That’s the pattern of inter-state migration in India-people move from less affluent states to the most affluent states in search of livelihood, and Assam is one of the lowest-ranked states in the india today State of the States study in absolute performance.

However, the Economic Survey 2016-17, which studied internal migration patterns, had an interesting revelation-Assam is one of the states which saw a dip in outbound migration in recent years. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal offers his explanation behind this positive development. "Employment opportunities in the state are growing because of a transparent government recruitment system and increased private investment. It’s natural that youngsters are staying back home," he says. The CM quickly belts out numbers to substantiate his claims-the Advantage Assam summit held in February this year resulted in an investment promise of Rs 79,000 crore of which Rs 8,000 was invested within five months. For instance, pharmaceutical company Sun Pharma has invested Rs 750 crore in the state to set up a production line that will boost the company’s capacity to manufacture liquid vials, injectables, eye drops and tablets. Another investment of Rs 200 crore is in the pipeline. "It has generated direct employment for 1,000 people and indirect employment for 3,000," says Sonowal.

FMCG giant Patanjali Ayurveda has promised an investment of Rs 1,300 crore and direct employment to 5,000 people in Assam. The CM claims more than one lakh youth have been absorbed in the private sector in the past two-and-a-half years, while his government has appointed 55,000 youth through a merit-based recruitment system. In the rural areas, the government has set up 126,000 self-help groups, each of whom has been given an assistance of Rs 25,000 to explore livelihood opportunities.

The increasingly peaceful environment and a rising entrepreneurial streak, supported by government initiatives, have led to small but significant changes in the rural economy. The state is one of the top three performers in organic farming in the Northeast. This month, vegetables sourced from various districts were directly exported to Dubai’s markets. In October, Assam sent vegetables to London and Doha.

The recognition for the state’s upward journey came from N.K. Singh, chairman of the 15th Finance Commission, "In the last two-three years, Assam has achieved significant progress with a recent spurt in growth. It has maintained overall macro-economic stability along with improvement in the indicators of human resource development," Singh said at an event in April.

Though between 2011-12 and 2016-17, its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) grew at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 11.8 per cent, the state’s industrial development has remained slow due to poor infrastructure. To build infrastructure support, the industries and commerce Department has sponsored three projects as industrial growth centres at Chariduar, Matia and Chaygaon-Patgaon. The state government has approved 11 integrated infrastructure development centres across the state. The state has adopted the North East Industrial Investment Promotion Policy and the Industrial Policy of Assam to facilitate business through fiscal incentives and multi-year concessions to investors. The Assam Industrial Development Corporation (AIDC) has implemented an Export Promotion Industrial Park (EPIP) at Amingaon. Border trade centres have been established at Mankachar, Sutarkandi and Darranga.

Due to the high potential for wildlife tourism in the state, the Centre has increased the funds under the Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats scheme to the state. In 2017, more than 6 million tourists visited Assam.

The state has also made a massive leap in moving towards a digital economy. A Chah Bagicha Dhan Puraskar Mela scheme was launched in January to transfer Rs 2,500 to each tea garden worker who had a bank account. As per the 2018-19 budget, this amount has been transferred to 721,485 bank accounts of workers across 752 tea gardens in Assam’s 26 districts.

A Lancet study titled, The Global Burden of Disease Study’, released in May says that India ranks 145th among 195 countries in terms of healthcare quality and accessibility, and Uttar Pradesh and Assam clock the worst performance in India. As per the study, India performed poorly in tackling cases of tuberculosis, heart diseases and cancer, among others.

Assam also faces an acute shortage of doctors. The state has only three doctors for 10,000 patients, which is woefully short of the World Health Organization prescribed minimum ratio of 1:1,000. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also holds the finance portfolio, while tabling the state’s budget for 2017-18, asserted that the state was targeting to produce 1,200 doctors annually by setting up new medical colleges. Assam has been running a scheme wherein the government bears the expenses of surgery at the Narayana Hrudayalaya in Bengaluru, Kolkata and Guwahati for children who have been recommended surgery for congenital heart disease. The scheme covers families with an annual income of less than Rs 6 lakh, and includes the airfare and accommodation of the child and one guardian.

The Assam government has also joined hands with the Tata Trust to roll out an elaborate cancer care programme in the state. The joint venture will result in the setting up of 17 cancer treatment centres across 15 districts in Assam. To be set up at an investment of Rs 1,910 crore, these centres will start functioning from mid-2020.

However, the real game-changer could be the Atal Amrit Abhiyan launched in April by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu. It’s a healthcare scheme of the Assam government that offers free medical care of up to Rs 2 lakh for every individual from families with annual income below Rs 5 lakh. The cashless scheme will cover 92 per cent of Assam’s population. It will be one of the largest such universal health assurance schemes in the world catering to both Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Above Poverty Line (APL) people. The state government has earmarked Rs 400 crore for the scheme in FY 2018-19. "This scheme will create a universal healthcare system that could be a model for other states," says Sonowal.

One of the languages that saw a significant surge in south India-according to the Language Census 2011 data released in June-was Assamese. This finding was not surprising because, every year, Assam sees a massive outbound migration of job-seeking youth from the state. That’s the pattern of inter-state migration in India-people move from less affluent states to the most affluent states in search of livelihood, and Assam is one of the lowest-ranked states in the india today State of the States study in absolute performance.

However, the Economic Survey 2016-17, which studied internal migration patterns, had an interesting revelation-Assam is one of the states which saw a dip in outbound migration in recent years. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal offers his explanation behind this positive development. "Employment opportunities in the state are growing because of a transparent government recruitment system and increased private investment. It’s natural that youngsters are staying back home," he says. The CM quickly belts out numbers to substantiate his claims-the Advantage Assam summit held in February this year resulted in an investment promise of Rs 79,000 crore of which Rs 8,000 was invested within five months. For instance, pharmaceutical company Sun Pharma has invested Rs 750 crore in the state to set up a production line that will boost the company’s capacity to manufacture liquid vials, injectables, eye drops and tablets. Another investment of Rs 200 crore is in the pipeline. "It has generated direct employment for 1,000 people and indirect employment for 3,000," says Sonowal.

FMCG giant Patanjali Ayurveda has promised an investment of Rs 1,300 crore and direct employment to 5,000 people in Assam. The CM claims more than one lakh youth have been absorbed in the private sector in the past two-and-a-half years, while his government has appointed 55,000 youth through a merit-based recruitment system. In the rural areas, the government has set up 126,000 self-help groups, each of whom has been given an assistance of Rs 25,000 to explore livelihood opportunities.

The increasingly peaceful environment and a rising entrepreneurial streak, supported by government initiatives, have led to small but significant changes in the rural economy. The state is one of the top three performers in organic farming in the Northeast. This month, vegetables sourced from various districts were directly exported to Dubai’s markets. In October, Assam sent vegetables to London and Doha.

The recognition for the state’s upward journey came from N.K. Singh, chairman of the 15th Finance Commission, "In the last two-three years, Assam has achieved significant progress with a recent spurt in growth. It has maintained overall macro-economic stability along with improvement in the indicators of human resource development," Singh said at an event in April.

Though between 2011-12 and 2016-17, its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) grew at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 11.8 per cent, the state’s industrial development has remained slow due to poor infrastructure. To build infrastructure support, the industries and commerce Department has sponsored three projects as industrial growth centres at Chariduar, Matia and Chaygaon-Patgaon. The state government has approved 11 integrated infrastructure development centres across the state. The state has adopted the North East Industrial Investment Promotion Policy and the Industrial Policy of Assam to facilitate business through fiscal incentives and multi-year concessions to investors. The Assam Industrial Development Corporation (AIDC) has implemented an Export Promotion Industrial Park (EPIP) at Amingaon. Border trade centres have been established at Mankachar, Sutarkandi and Darranga.

Due to the high potential for wildlife tourism in the state, the Centre has increased the funds under the Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats scheme to the state. In 2017, more than 6 million tourists visited Assam.

The state has also made a massive leap in moving towards a digital economy. A Chah Bagicha Dhan Puraskar Mela scheme was launched in January to transfer Rs 2,500 to each tea garden worker who had a bank account. As per the 2018-19 budget, this amount has been transferred to 721,485 bank accounts of workers across 752 tea gardens in Assam’s 26 districts.

A Lancet study titled, The Global Burden of Disease Study’, released in May says that India ranks 145th among 195 countries in terms of healthcare quality and accessibility, and Uttar Pradesh and Assam clock the worst performance in India. As per the study, India performed poorly in tackling cases of tuberculosis, heart diseases and cancer, among others.

Assam also faces an acute shortage of doctors. The state has only three doctors for 10,000 patients, which is woefully short of the World Health Organization prescribed minimum ratio of 1:1,000. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also holds the finance portfolio, while tabling the state’s budget for 2017-18, asserted that the state was targeting to produce 1,200 doctors annually by setting up new medical colleges. Assam has been running a scheme wherein the government bears the expenses of surgery at the Narayana Hrudayalaya in Bengaluru, Kolkata and Guwahati for children who have been recommended surgery for congenital heart disease. The scheme covers families with an annual income of less than Rs 6 lakh, and includes the airfare and accommodation of the child and one guardian.

The Assam government has also joined hands with the Tata Trust to roll out an elaborate cancer care programme in the state. The joint venture will result in the setting up of 17 cancer treatment centres across 15 districts in Assam. To be set up at an investment of Rs 1,910 crore, these centres will start functioning from mid-2020.

However, the real game-changer could be the Atal Amrit Abhiyan launched in April by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu. It’s a healthcare scheme of the Assam government that offers free medical care of up to Rs 2 lakh for every individual from families with annual income below Rs 5 lakh. The cashless scheme will cover 92 per cent of Assam’s population. It will be one of the largest such universal health assurance schemes in the world catering to both Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Above Poverty Line (APL) people. The state government has earmarked Rs 400 crore for the scheme in FY 2018-19. "This scheme will create a universal healthcare system that could be a model for other states," says Sonowal.

====== 43 ========

TAKING THE SAFE ROUTE

Arunachal Pradesh is one of only four states in India to pass a legislation giving the death penalty for child rape. The Cri­m­inal Laws (Arunachal Pradesh) Amendment Bill 2018 came into being following a series of incidents where the public resorted to vigilante justice to punish alleged child rapists.

The northeastern state has witnessed a jump in such cases in the past few years, with the National Crime Records Bureau reporting 92 cases in 2016. The number of adult rape cases also jumped from 76 in 2015 to 91 in 2016. A society known for treating its women with respect, this development came as a shock and the government’s response was drastic and immediate. This also led to social friction with many attributing such crimes to migrant workers.

That said, the overall number of crimes recorded in the state did drop from 3,149 in 2015 to 2,700 in 2016. A key area of concern, though, is the high number of kidnapping and extortion cases. Though there is no homegrown militancy, Arunachal is also affected by the spillover activities of insurgents from neighboring states such as Nagaland and Assam.

The state government understands the importance of peace in unlocking Arunanchal’s economic potential. In the past decade, it has gradually emerged as a tourist destination. But the state is still not able to generate enough revenues because of poor infrastructure and negative perceptions about law and order. The state government has roped in superstar Salman Khan as honorary brand ambassador and is now going all out to make the state enjoyable and safe for tourists.

One such venture is the tourist police’, a squad trained specifically for the purpose. Tourist police units have been launched in the seven district headquarters, Tawang, Itanagar, Roing, Ziro, Pasighat, Namsai and Pangsau Pass. The initiative should make Arunachal a tourist-friendly state, says Chief Minister Pema Khandu. A mobile app, Arunachal Suraksha, the brainchild of DGP S.B.K. Singh, has also been launched. Once downloaded, the app can help tourists get information and even make calls to the nearest pol­ice station in an emergency. Safety is key for any tourist. These initiatives should address their concerns, says Singh.

Amid these positive developments, there are warning signs too. A parliamentary standing committee on the Union home ministry points out that, in 2012, Arunachal accounted for just five per cent of crimes in the entire Northeast. By 2017, the figure had jumped to almost 20 per cent.

====== 44 ========

GOING PLACES

The return of the Formula 1 H20 powerboat world championship to India after 14 years, and to the greenfield capital Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh, from November 16 to 18, is a watershed in tourism development and in establishing the state on the global sporting map through an event beamed live to over 50 countries. "We are evolving as Sunrise Andhra Pradesh’, and it is a long journey in which tourism is helping us meet some of the challenges in building our economy," says Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.

Indeed, Andhra Pradesh is making tourism one of its major growth drivers. To its advantage, the state is endowed with enchanting landscapes, a long coastline, a Buddhism circuit and vantage locations for adventure sports. The village tourism concept provides a fascinating glimpse into the life and culture of Telugu society.

"The tourism sector can contribute the maximum to the economy and provide jobs with comparatively lesser investments than other sectors," says tourism minister B. Akhila Priya. A skewed tourism policy, until June 2014, had deprived areas outside Hyderabad of major investments. A major impediment was the lack of tourism infrastructure, with room inventory limited to 6,742. The new tourism policy of 2015 seeks to position the state as a globally recognised tourism destination, the most preferred state in India for domestic tourists and among the top 12 for international tourists.

For this, the state is facilitating investments to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore. Help is coming from the AP Tourism, Culture and Heritage Board, chaired by the chief minister, to plan and implement initiatives, and the AP Tourism, Culture and Creativity Commission, set up to ensure focused development. Room inventory has also increased to over 10,000 this year.

Consequently, domestic tourist footfall increased from 93.3 million in 2014 to 165.7 million in 2017-18, with an average annual growth of 19 percentage points. The state’s ranking improved from fifth in 2014 to third in 2017-18, with the percentage point share rising from 7.2 to 9.5. The ranking in foreign tourist footfall improved from 22 to 18 in the same period.

"Effective promotional campaigns and marquee projects, such as the 240 acre tourist zone and the Naval Heritage Museum, both in Visakhapatnam, the Adventure Sports Academy at Gandikota, the recreational facilities on Bhavani island, a formula racing circuit at Tanakallu in Anantapur, besides 12 village tourism projects are providing the impetus," says state tourism secretary Mukesh Kumar Meena.

====== 45 ========

BJP WOULD HAVE BUILT RAM TEMPLE LONG BACK IF WE HAD OUR WAY: AMIT SHAH

Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Amit Shah on Sunday said that if the BJP had its way, the Ayodhya land dispute would have been settled long back.

In an exclusive interview to Aaj Tak, Shah said: "Had it been our way, the case would have been settled and the Ram temple been constructed in Ayodhya."

He claimed that the BJP has always been in favour of courts hearing the Ayodhya case on priority and accused the Congress of "repeatedly delaying" the case.

"Recently, Congress leader Kapil Sibal argued in the Supreme Court that the Ayodhya land dispute case should be heard after 2019 (Lok Sabha election)," he said.

ALSO READ | Justice being denied to Hindus, says Mohan Bhagwat; joins Shiv Sena, VHP in call for Ram temple

He said that it is not possible that Sibal did this "without the approval" of Congress president Rahul Gandhi. "Is it possible that Kapil Sibal could have taken a politically sensitive case without Rahul Gandhi's nod?" he asked.

When asked about the timing of the ongoing agitations for the Ram mandir (as they come just ahead of key assembly elections), Shah said these are not strategic in nature.

Of late, various leaders of the RSS, VHP and the BJP have demanded that the Modi government should bring in an ordinance to facilitate construction of the Ram temple.

Speaking about this demand, Shah said the BJP will wait for the next hearing of the Ayodhya case on January 22. "We will see. The case will come up for hearing in January. Let the case be heard (in the Supreme Court)," he said.

ALSO READ | Ram temple issue: VHP says won't share disputed land in Ayodhya with anyone

"It is not in our hand. We can't fix the date. It is for the court to decide."

When asked about BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj's comment that some idols of (Hindu gods) will be found if Delhi's Jama Masjid is destroyed, Shah said the party "in no manner" subscribes to this view.

Only pro-incumbency, no anti-incumbency

The Modi government and the BJP face a major popularity test in the form of five assembly elections ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabbha election. The Congress and other opposition parties have upped the ante and accused the BJP of having failed to deliver on its promises.

ALSO READ | Congress asked SC to delay Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls: PM Modi in Alwar

Of the five states that are going to polls, the BJP has been in power for 15 years in two-Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh-and for 10 years in one Rajasthan.

Analysts have opined that the BJP may face a tough challenge due to the anti-incumbency factor in these states.

Responding to these views, Shah said anti-incumbency comes only when a majority of people are unhappy with the government, and not otherwise. "The BJP governments in Rajasthan, MP and Chhattisgarh face pro-incumbency, not anti-incumbency," he claimed.

WATCH | Not in our hand to fix a date, will wait for court: Amit Shah

====== 46 ========

NARIMAN HOUSE TO BE TURNED INTO MEMORIAL FOR ALL 26/11 VICTIMS

On the 10th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, Nariman House, one of the several establishments that were targeted by the Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, will be declared a memorial and rechristened as Nariman Light House.

Three floors of the building have been fashioned as a museum with the names of all 166 people who lost their lives being put up for visitors to pay their respects to. The first phase of the memorial will be thrown open to visitors on Monday.

Rabbi Israel Kozlovskyl made the announcement on Sunday that the Nariman House will be rechristened as Nariman Light House. Nariman House is a centre for the Jewish Chabad movement.

The memorial promises to be open to all "to feel and live".

First phase of the memorial will be dedicated to all those who lost their lives in the deadly attacks that brought the commercial capital of the country to its knees.

READ | Lawyers who defended Ajmal Kasab in HC yet to get their fees from Maharashtra govt

The second phase of the memorial is the fifth floor of the house where Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg lived with his wife, Rivka and son, Moshe. The entire floor has been designed in pristine white and has been reconstructed to make it look exactly how it used to, before the fateful night 10 years ago.

On November 26, 2008, two of the ten terrorists who had entered Mumbai raided Nariman House and killed its four residents, including Rabbi Holtzberg and his wife. Their toddler son Moshe was saved by his Indian nanny, Sandra Samuel.

Among the prominent displays here will be Moshe's room, the kitchen, bedroom, living room, apartment, entrance, hallway library and the common room.

"The fifth floor where the Holtzberg family lived will be turned back into a house with a kitchen, a living room and everything to reflect the Jewish way of life. On the fourth floor there will be six different rooms projecting different things and also give an overall view to the visitors," said Kozlovskyl.

Soon, a website will be launched for people to apply to visit the Nariman Light House. Visitors will be subject to verifications and security checks while there will be no charges on the visits.

On the fourth floor, visitors will enter through a scorched and broken door, just how it was after the attack.

The next room will bear tales of the 2008 attacks and will be dedicated to stories of terror attacks across the world.

READ | 26/11 Mumbai attack anniversary: When LeT trained Ajmal Kasab on how to fish

WATCH | Army better prepared to tackle 26\11-like attacks, says General Bipin Rawat

====== 47 ========

ANOTHER TERROR ATTACK LIKE 26/11 WITH FOOTPRINTS IN PAKISTAN WILL LEAD TO WAR: US EXPERTS

Another major terrorist attack in India of the magnitude similar to the 26/11 strike originating from Pakistan could easily escalate into a regional war, scholars, former diplomats and US officials have warned ahead of the 10th anniversary of the deadly Mumbai terror attack.

Some 166 people were killed in the 2008 attack carried out by 10 Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists. Nine of the attackers were killed by police while lone survivor Ajmal Kasab was captured and hanged after handed down death sentence by an Indian court.

Perpetrators of the 26/11 attack, including its mastermind and banned Jamat-ud Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed, continue to roam freely in Pakistan, indicating that Islamabad is not serious in bringing them to justice. The JuD is believed to be the front group for the LeT. The US has offered a USD 10 million bounty for Saeed.

The 26/11 attack case has entered into the 10th year but none of its seven suspects in Pakistan has been punished yet, showing that the case had never been in its priority list.

"The victims of 26/11 have yet to see the masterminds of the attack in the LeT and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) face justice; unfortunately, that is virtually impossible in Pakistan," former Central Intelligence Agency official Bruce Riedel told PTI.

Riedel, senior fellow and director of Brookings Intelligence Project, believes that another terror attack in India of similar magnitude would result in a war between the two countries.

"If another attack of this magnitude occurs, there will be war," he said.

Pakistan's former envoy to the US Husain Haqqani said: "With US-Pakistan relations in a tailspin and hawkish attitudes dominating the subcontinent, one cannot predict if and how the situation would be controlled in the event of another major terrorist attack in India, with clear linkages to groups in Pakistan".

Currently a senior fellow and Director for South and Central Asia at the Hudson Institute, Haqqani said Pakistan "must fulfil its promise of acting" against the masterminds of the 26/11 attack.

"That it has chosen to let them operate freely raises the justifiable concern that Pakistan's deep state does not want to deter or punish terrorists responsible for attacks in India.

"In 2008, Pakistan's promise of acting against the LeT and those involved in the Mumbai attack prevented escalation of India-Pakistan hostilities. The US also helped calm things down by sharing intelligence with both Pakistan and India," he said.

Agreed a senior Bush administration official, who was inside the White House at the time of the attack.

"That (India-Pakistan war) was a primary concern and a primary scenario that we wanted to avoid," Anish Goel, who was director of South Asia in the National Security Council of the White House at the time of the 26/11 attack, told PTI.

Noting that there was a lot of pressure on then prime minister Manmohan Singh "to react kinetically", Goel said then president George Bush and secretary of state Condoleezza Rice had to make a lot of efforts including several phone calls to New Delhi, Islamabad and leaders of several US allies to prevent such a scenario.

Bush was very concerned, and got on phone with Singh immediately, offering condolences and urging restraint, he said. Rice travelled to the region trying to cool things.

"There's a lot of public pressure. I think prime minister Singh himself was showing a lot of restraint and was not inclined to do a counter attack right away, but there was a lot of political pressure on him to do so," said Goel.

"The US, I believe -- I don't know for sure, you have to ask the Indian government to know -- having counseling or urging him to show restraint, gave him some sort of political leeway and maneuverability to resist the domestic political pressures from those calling for a quick counterstrike on Pakistan," he said, adding that at no point there was any evidence of military mobilisation.

"There was a sense of nervousness in the then Bush administration about a possible nuclear war in South Asia. The Mumbai terror attack started a day before Thanksgiving a national holiday in the US and did not end till Sunday, the last day of the long weekend. Bush not only held situation room meeting on Saturday, but also mobilised his entire administration to try and prevent escalation of the tension," Goel added.

A senior former Obama administration official said if another attack would have happened like that, it would "quickly escalates into a regional war".

The current government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already "taken a tough line" against Islamabad including a surgical strike, the official said on anonymity.

"I could certainly foresee a situation where he (prime minister Modi) escalates those quite a bit in response to the terrorist attack. Then for the US government, I just don't know if the Trump administration would counsel restraint the way the Bush administration did," he said.

The Trump administration might say they (Indians) are justified, he said.

"Not only are we not going to stop you, but we're going to help you. I don't know that they would do, but I don't know if they would carry the same message of constraints.

"So, when you're talking about what could happen in the region, if there was another Mumbai attack after the Pakistanis have promised there's no terrorists operating in our country and we're going after all of them, I could see a scenario which quickly escalates into a regional war," he added. PTI LKJ ZH AKJ ZH ZH

====== 48 ========

RAM TEMPLE ISSUE: VHP SAYS WON'T SHARE DISPUTED LAND IN AYODHYA WITH ANYONE

Seers from different ashrams gather at the 'dharm sabha' venue in Ayodhya on Sunday. (PTI Photo)

No formula that divides the land in Ayodhya will be accepted to build the Ram temple, proclaimed the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), which gathered thousands of supporters on Sunday for its 'dharm sabha'.

VHP vice-president, Champat Rai, while addressing the massive gathering, said, "We want the entire land for the Ram Mandir construction and it cannot be divided. We want the Sunni Waqf Board to take back the case so that a grand Ram Temple can be constructed. This is when the brotherhood is going to increase. Namaz cannot be offered at a disputed site and it has been proved that the disputed land is the birthplace of Lord Ram. The priority of the government, judiciary and society should be the same."

The president of the Ram Janambhoomi Nyas, Nritya Gopal Das said, "We have a lot of expectations from both central and the state governments. The sentiments of the people should be respected and the government should clear all hurdles in temple construction. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is a saint and he should also contribute towards the movement."

READ | Justice being denied to Hindus, says Mohan Bhagwat; joins Shiv Sena, VHP in call for Ram temple

Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) general secretary Krishna Gopal said that his organisation is going to abide by what is decided by the saints in Ayodhya.

Saints who spoke at the dharm sabha demanded legislation for the Ram temple construction.

Around 50,000 people from across the state turned up for the mega dharm sabha organised by VHP at the Bada Bhaktamal Park in Ayodhya. A day before the event, the right wing outfit had claimed that over 3 lakh supporters will turn up.

Hoardings of former VHP president Ashok Singhal were set up across the city and inside the venue.



Meanwhile, heavy security arrangements were put in place across Ayodhya. The Rapid Action Force (RAF), ATS commandos and PAC were deployed across the city while barricades were put up at multiple points to restrict movement.

Responding to VHP's dharm sabha, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Jafaryab Jilani said, "No demand of the VHP will be accepted by the central government because the matter is pending in the top court. Our view is very clear that the Supreme Court's decision should be accepted by the entire nation."

Senior BJP leader Vinay Katiyar, however, welcomed VHP's demand of no division in land.

READ | Congress asked SC to delay Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls: PM Modi in Alwar

"Division of land will not be acceptable and this is why the high court's judgment was challenged in the Supreme Court. I appeal to the central government for legislation in the Parliament for Ram Temple construction. Parties opposing the legislation will stand exposed and the people will teach them a lesson in the upcoming general elections," said Katiyar.

'CENTRE TO DECIDE ON RAM MANDIR AFTER DECEMBER 11'

Swami Rambhadracharya, a Hindu religious leader, while addressing the dharm sabha claimed that the central government would be taking a decision on Ram Mandir construction after December 11, when results for the five state elections will be declared.

"I spoke to a top most minister in the Narendra Modi govt on November 23. He told me that after December 11, the central government will be taking a decision on the Ram Mandir issue. I am hopeful that the decision will be regarding bringing a law for temple construction. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has also given an assurance that the Centre would be pressurised to respect the sentiments of the Hindu community," said Rambhadracharya.

WATCH | Ram Mandir rumble: Ground report from Ayodhya

====== 49 ========

INDIA EXTEND UNBEATEN STREAK IN T20 INTERNATIONALS TO 10 SERIES AFTER SCG WIN

Virat Kohli led from the front as India defeated Australia by 6 wickets (AP Photo)

India skipper Virat Kohli led from the front with a sparkling 61 not out to help secure a series-levelling 6-wicket victory over Australia in the third and final Twenty20 International on Sunday.

With the win, India levelled the 3-match series 1-1 and are now unbeaten in their last 10 T20I series which started with the one-off T20I against Sri Lanka in 2017.

India since drew a 3-T20I series with Australia 1-1, beat New Zealand (2-1) at home, Sri Lanka (3-0) again at home and South Africa (2-1) away in 3-match series.

India then clinched the T20 Nidahas Trophy beating out Bangladesh and hosts Sri Lanka earlier this year.

India defeated Ireland in both the T20Is at their home to win the series 2-0 and followed it up be beating England 2-1 away again.

Returning home, they recently whitewashed West Indies in a 3-match series.

Kohli, on a personal note, also became the 4th highest run-scorer in T20Is, with 2167 runs, surpassing New Zealand's Brendon McCullum (2140) in the process.

Krunal Pandya picked up a four-wicket haul and gave away just 36 runs in four overs, to set the record for the best bowling figures by an Indian in T20Is on Australian soil. It is also the best figures by a spinner in Australia in T20Is.

Shikhar Dhawan surpassed Kohli to top the list of most T20I runs in a calender year with his 689 runs from 18 matches in 2018. Kohli had scored 641 runs from 15 matches in 2016.

Rohit Sharma climbed up to third on that list, with 590 runs from 19 matches in 2018, overtaking Pakistan's Fakar Zaman, who has scored 576 runs.

India vs Australia, 3rd T20I: Report | Highlights | As it happened

On Sunday, chasing 165 to win, India suffered a mid-innings slump that left them needing 52 off the last five overs. Kohli combined with Dinesh Karthik, who made 22 not out, to see India home with two balls to spare.

India got off to a blistering start as Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan collected 20 runs from the first three overs before accelerating.

They plundered 20 runs from the next over from Nathan Coulter-Nile while Marcus Stoinis bled 22 in the following over.

Also read - Things become pretty easy when Rohit, Dhawan do the job for us: Virat Kohli

To stop the carnage, Aaron Finch brought back Mitchell Starc and the left-arm quick, playing his first 20-over international in more than two years, did not let his captain down, trapping Dhawan lbw for 41 to end the 67-run stand.

Adam Zampa bowled Rohit, who hit two sixes in his 23, in his maiden over and India slumped to 108-4 after KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant fell in successive deliveries.

Kohli added 60 runs with Karthik and sealed the victory with back-to-back fours.

Having won the toss and elected to bat, home captain Finch (28) combined with D'Arcy Short (33) to give Australia a flying start but the hosts could not make the most of it.

Also read - Aaron Finch says Australia are feeling good for Tests after drawn T20I series

They added 68 runs for the opening partnership when Pandya got into the thick of the action in the ninth over.

The all-rounder caught Finch at short fine leg, before dismissing Short and Ben McDermott off successive deliveries to drag India back into the contest.

Alex Carey denied Pandya a hat-trick but eventually fell to the left-arm spinner after making 27.

Stoinis made a breezy 25 not out down the order as Australia overcame their mid-innings slump and collected 57 runs from the last five overs.

Pandya took 4 wickets while Kuldeep Yadav also impressed conceding only 19 in a tidy four overs that included Finch's wicket.

READ - Krunal Pandya records best T20I bowling figures by a spinner in Australia

Australia, who won the rain-hit series opener in Brisbane, could not manage a single six in their innings against India's eight.

The second match in Melbourne was washed out.

The teams now square off in a four-Test series beginning in Adelaide on Dec. 6.

(With inputs from Reuters)

Also watch -

====== 50 ========

UN SELECTS NOIDA, GREATER NOIDA TO PARTICIPATE IN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE CITIES 2025 INITIATIVE

The United Nations on Sunday officially invited Uttar Pradesh's Noida and Greater Noida to become a member of its initiative which aims to create 25 model cities across the world that will be fully compliant with the sustainable development goals by 2025, officials said.

The twin-cities in Gautam Buddh Nagar district, adjoining the national capital, have been selected in the "University City" category ahead of Mumbai and Bengaluru, which were also under UN consideration for the initiative, as the only invitee from India, a senior UN official said.

"Noida (along with Greater Noida) has been formally invited to participate in this showcase 'Race to Sustainability' among 25 global cities to become fully compliant with the Sustainable Development Goals by 2025 under the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) cities initiative," Senior UN Advisor and CEO UN Global Sustainability Index Institute (UNGSII) Roland Schatz told reporters.

Schatz formally extended the invitation on Sunday to Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Brajesh Narain Singh in the presence of Shubhro Sen, the principal advisor, India, SDG Initiative, and Ajay Davessar, Advisor to UNGSII India.

In September 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that includes 17 SDGs, otherwise known as the Global Goals, a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.



HIGHLIGHTS OF SDG CITIES

Schatz highlighted that the SDG cities initiative will lead to an unprecedented inflow of global knowledge, resources and capacity-building into Noida and Greater Noida via various UN agencies, partners and corporate supporters.

According to the official invitation letter, agreeing to the invitation for the long term project would entitle Noida-Greater Noida for a "multi-million US dollars finance and implementation know-how for each of the 17 SDGs along the defined KPIs (key performance indicators)," among other benefits.

Shcatz said the goal is to work together with other participating university cities like Cambridge, Palo Alto, Trondheim, Espoo and Heidelberg to create Sustainability Innovation and Research Hubs.

"We need to get Noida on the map not only in India but all over the world because if the United Nations is managing together every person on the planet to reach these so called SDG by 2030, we need to understand and learn from each other," he said.



INVITATION NEEDS GOVERNMENT'S NOD

District Magistrate Singh said he would forward the invitation to the government for its approval as he hailed it as a "significant moment" for the district, which has lakhs of students.

"This is a proud moment for Noida and Greater Noida to be selected for this exciting global showcase. Now I will forward this invitation to the Uttar Pradesh government which is very positive about development works," Singh said.

"We are about 600 government schools at primary level, 139 schools which are affiliated with CBSE, eight universities with more than 50,000 students they need direction and to be linked with what is happening elsewhere in the world. This initiative, I think, will also overall growth in both Noida and Greater Noida," he added.

Sen said the 25 cities will be first selected which will serve as role models for other cities in the world towards achieving the SDG 2030 goal.

Noida has the basic infrastructure and is going to the city of future if we bring here the global expertise, knowledge and resources in this sustainable development connection then Noida's can grow even more quickly and become an important city in the world, he said.

"Once the state government agrees to the invitation, the doors of the United Nations would be opened for Noida-Greater Noida under this initiative," he said.

Asked about the measures to be taken during the seven years for achievement of the SDGs, Schatz said the cities would analysts and experts along with data-based evaluation systems to monitor performance every three months.

"We bring a team from UN smart cities programme who have developed a matrix on all the 17 parameters like how much water do you need, who much energy is required, is gender equality there ... and now we have these matrix in place to bring in transparency to find where are we in 2019, 2021 and where are we going to be in 2025, he said.



READ ALSO: Noida to go green with vertical garden: 5 pictures of vertical forests from around the world

READ ALSO: 9 more cities added to Smart Cities Mission, total now 99



ALSO WATCH: Architect Carlo Ratti: Ideal smart city will have Prague's topography, Rio's night life and Mumbai's buzz

====== 51 ========

COWS' PLEA FOR KEEPING HORNS: SWISS FARMER FORCES CONSTITUTIONAL VOTE AFTER TALKING TO HIS COWS

The proposal to amend the Swiss Constitution so that it allows preservation of cow horns and gives incentives for this, was moved by a farmer. (Photo: Reuters)

You were wrong if thought India was the only country obsessed with cows. Apparently, people in Switzerland too are. On Sunday, the country voted on a range of issues but one stood apart.

A vote on whether farmers should be incentivised for allowing their cows to grow horns. This was not an ordinary vote; it rather called for a constitutional amendment to preserve cow horns.

More than two-thirds cows in Switzerland are dehorned. It is a common practice in the country to remove cow horns few weeks after the animal's birth using a heated iron.

ALSO READ | Swami Nithyananda: I can make cows speak in Tamil and Sanskrit

There are groups that argue that dehorning is an important way that allows farmers to house animals in close proximity with less risk of injury.

The proposal to amend the Swiss Constitution so that it incentivises preservation of cow horns was moved by 67-year-old Armin Capaul, a farmer. He has been campaigning for this for the last eight years.

In a report, The Guardian said Capaul argues that depriving animals their horns is cruel as they use them to "communicate, stay cool and clean themselves".

According to news agency AFP, Capaul said he was inspired to do so after "talking" to his cows about the matter.

"I always talk to my cows in the barn. They asked me if I could do something for them, if I could help them keep their horns," he said, according to AFP.

Armin Capaul, the 67-year-old farmer who has been campaigning for the last eight years. (Photo: Reuters)

Switzerland practices a direct democracy system under which the entire country votes on any issue that has signatures of at least 1 lakh people in its support.

Unlike most countries where constitutional matters are voted upon by parliament, the Swiss people decide them though referendum.

The national vote on safeguarding cow horns was the result of a campaign that had few takers to start with, limited resources and no political support.

Capaul clarified that through this proposal he is not calling for a ban on dehorning. What he is rather seeking is a constitutional amendment that creates incentives for farmers to let their cows grow horns.

ALSO READ | PM Modi in Africa: Why cow is the best gift in Rwanda

Speaking to AFP, Capaul said that even though he has been the centre of attention after he secured more than 1,00,000 lakh signatures needed to force a national vote, it is the cows who should be concentrated upon.

"It's the cow that's important, not me," he told AFP at his home in Perrefitte. AFP said that polling earlier this month suggested the outcome was too close to call.

Meanwhile, environmental and animal rights groups have also joined Capaul's campaign. However, it is opposed by the Swiss government, which argues that farmers must have a right decide the manner in which they want to manage their livestock.

Meanwhile, media reports say the government is primarily opposing the campaign because it may cost it £8m-£24m a year if it starts incentivising horn preservation.

ALSO WATCH | Moo-ve Out the Way! Indian Villagers Trampled by Cows in Udderly Bizarre Ritual

====== 52 ========

WHEN GRAVITY TOOK AMIT SHAH DOWN. TWICE

Amit Shah has managed to win over everything with elan. And almost single-handedly. But not gravity. (File photo: PTI)

Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Amit Shah is no stranger to fighting outside forces, be it the Congress party's dominance when he came into the picture or other regional parties.

But he has managed to win over everything with elan. And almost single-handedly.

One force that continues to defeat him is - gravity, and by no means, he doesn't seem to be not falling -- and quite literally -- into its fold.

It so happened that the senior BJP leader fell TWICE during his rallies in the poll-bound states - Mizoram and Madhya Pradesh. And could rise again only after outside forces helped him to.

Shah fell while alighting from a chopper before his roadshow in Mizoram on Thursday.

The incident happened at the Tlabung village in West Tuipui constituency.

He missed a step -- something he isn't used to as far as his political career is concerned -- while exiting the chopper and fell flat on the ground.

He managed to rise up with the support of one of his bodyguards -- something he is used to.

Shah is seen rubbing his lower back in a viral video.

A screen grab from the viral video.

The next FALL happened in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.

Shah stumbled and fell while alighting from a vehicle after his roadshow in the poll-bound state.

One of his bodyguards quickly offered support and Shah immediately managed to get up unhurt. This incident happened at the Tulsi Park.

This could not, however, dampen Shah's spirit, who rose (literally and figuratively) to the occasion and fired salvos at the Congress party like his previous election meetings. He said the chief of the opposition party, Rahul Gandhi, was daydreaming about winning the November 28 Madhya Pradesh assembly polls.

"While waiting to board a flight at an airport, I saw Rahul baba on a TV channel, claiming that his party was going to come to power in Madhya Pradesh," Shah told the gathering.

So, was Shah thinking about this when he alighted from the vehicle? No. It's Rahul Gandhi, who daydreams, not him, he says.

"Rahul baba is dreaming in the day that his party is going to form the government in Madhya Pradesh," he added, at the rally.

Amit Shah further ridiculed Rahul Gandhi by saying that dreaming was not bad, but one should not build castles in the air, that too during the day.

The Congress party did not miss the two falls, and took to Twitter to ask what was wrong with the BJP chief.

Ruchira Chaturvedi, national convenor - INC social media, tweeted, "Zaraa hatke, zaraa bachke, yeh hai MP meri jaan #BJPSeGumrahMatHona"



Szarita Laitphlang, AICC media in-charge (Mizoram) and All India Professional Congress (AIPC) secretary, got rather poetic.

First in Mizoram then in Madhya Pradesh - Yeh ho kya raha? Kuch toh hua hai.....Do teen dino se.....@BJP4India ka pool

Girne laga

Girne laga

O @AmitShah ji.....

( Hindi version of London bridge is falling down)@ProfCong @AIPCEastZone @INCMP @SimmiAhuja_ @AiyshwaryaM https://t.co/YuX5f5eAHP Szarita Laitphlang ( ) (@szarita) November 24, 2018

She tweeted, "First in Mizoram then in Madhya Pradesh - Yeh ho kya raha? Kuch toh hua hai..Do teen dino se.. BJP ka pool Girne laga Girne laga O Amit Shah ji.. [what's happening? Feels like the BJP is falling]"

Well, your guess is as good as ours.

(With inputs from agencies)

ALSO READ | Amit Shah goofs up in MP rally, pulls up aide

ALSO READ | 'PM Modi will destroy nation', Amit Shah's translator goofs up at Karnataka rally

====== 53 ========

RANVEER SAYS HE MARRIED THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE WORLD. DEEPIKA CANNOT STOP BLUSHING

Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone got married on November 14 and 15.

It has been more than a week since Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone got married, yet the excitement around B-Town's favourite couple refuses to die down.

After their fairytale-esque Lake Como wedding, the couple returned to India and hosted a Bengaluru reception on November 21. Yesterday, Ranveer's sister Ritika, threw a bash for the two in Mumbai.

Ranveer was back with his eccentric outfits, and Deepika decided to go boho-chic for the event.

Videos and pictures from the merriment have surfaced on social media. In one video, Ranveer says that he has married the most beautiful girl in the world, and Deepika couldn't stop smiling. Ranveer also added that she "obliged him" by wearing her quirky outfit, and said that she looks like artist Frida Kahlo on acid.

Here are more videos from the event.

Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone dancing

Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone

Ranveer will throw a bash for his close family and friends on November 28. On December 1, the two will host a star-studded reception for their friends from the film fraternity.

Ranveer and Deepika had two wedding ceremonies. On November 14, they got married according to Konkani rituals, and on November 15, they followed the Sindhi customs. Ranveer and Deepika's wedding was a private affair and only close family members were invited for the functions.

Ranveer and Deepika's romance bloomed on the sets of Goliyon Ke Rasleela Ram Leela in 2013. Though the couple preferred not to answer questions about their relationship, their social-media PDA and dinner dates spoke volumes. After keeping the media guessing for a while, in October, Ranveer and Deepika announced on social media that they would be tying the knot in November.

ALSO READ | Deepika-Ranveer wedding: Italy meets India as 2 States come to life at Como

ALSO READ | Deepika and Ranveer are married. All that happened at Sindhi wedding

====== 54 ========

CONGRESS ASKED SC TO DELAY AYODHYA HEARING BECAUSE OF 2019 POLLS: PM MODI IN ALWAR

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has blamed the Congress party for the delay in the construction of Ram mandir at the disputed site in Ayodhya, in his election rally in Rajasthan's Alwar.

In his first appearance in Alwar, on Sunday, after the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Vasundhara Raje assumed power almost five years back, PM Modi targetted Congress in every aspect of administration and operation -- Ram mandir issue, Congress's delay in naming their chief ministerial candidate for the December 7 assembly elections, and vote-bank politics.

"Congress is dragging judiciary into politics. Congress is creating an atmosphere of fear for the judiciary. One of their leaders asked the Supreme Court to delay the Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls. When a judge doesn't pay heed to their demands, they try to use impeachment to threaten judiciary. But I urge the judiciary to keep on treading the path of justice without any fear," he said.

ALSO READ | Before elections Ram Ram, after that only araam: Uddhav Thackeray escalates attack on BJP

The clarion call for the construction of Ram mandir has reached its pinnacle with the Shiv Sena and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) organising a Dharm Sabha in Ayodhya today. They opened war on the Centre saying they wanted the entire land for the construction of the temple and the construction to be expedited.

With this rumble going on in Ayodhya, the Uttar Pradesh government jumped in with its two cents and said the Shiv Sena did not have any hand in this movement and that it was doing this for a political advantage.

At the Alwar rally, PM Modi further accused Congress of communalism.

He said, "When I go abroad, they don't see my caste, they just see India and its people. But Congress only focusses on my caste. They are working towards breaking the country on communal lines. The BJP has always strived to strengthen the secular fibre of the nation."

ALSO READ | Terrified Muslims leave Ayodhya ahead of VHP's show of strength for Ram Mandir

"When a Congress leader humiliated me over my caste, he was suspended from the party. But, after two months, he was cordially welcomed. Marginalised communities are just vote-bank for them. That's what caste means to them. Everyone knows their conduct towards Dr BR Ambedkar. They did not even confer him Bharat Ratna," he added.

Modi also took upon Congress over the delay in furnishing the candidate list for the elections and naming their chief ministerial candidate.

ALSO READ | Poll battle heats up in Rajasthan

"Congress is a confused party. They are confused about their chief ministerial candidates. Their leader is so confused," he said.

Congress has still not named who the chief minister would be, if it regains power in the state. Both - former chief minister Ashok Gehlot and state party president Sachin Pilot - are contesting election from their respective seats and are said to be in the race to be the head of the state.

"Congress is now asking my caste, abusing my mother as they don't have any other agenda to fight the polls on. They don't have any vision for the welfare of India or Rajasthan," he said.

PM Modi added, "What the Congress did in 50 years, Vasundhara Raje did in five years. Now, you have to decide if are you going to vote for the BJP or for a party which will make you wait 50 years to get work done."

Voting will be held in Rajasthan in a single phase on December 7 and the votes will be counted on December 11.

WATCH | Shiv Sena's Ram Mandir roar: A special ground report from Ayodhya

====== 55 ========

ARMED SENTINELESE FEND OFF COPS TRYING TO RECOVER AMERICAN'S BODY

The Andaman and Nicobar Islands Police's latest attempt at recovering an American national's body from the North Sentinel Island, met with failure after the reclusive Sentinelese tribe drove away the officers, said a report.

Andaman and Nicobar DGP, Dependra Pathak wrote on Twitter that handling the North Sentinel Island case is turning out to be the "most-challenging ever".

Pathak told news agency AFP that when the police boat was about 400 metres away from the shores of the island, they could spot armed Sentinelese men standing guarded.

#Andaman

Handling challenging North Sentinel Island case. Most challenging ever. Consulting Anthropologists/Psychologist/locals. Hopeful. Dependra Pathak (@Dependra_Pathak) November 24, 2018





Pathak said, using their binoculars, they could see the tribal men standing at the same spot where 27-year-old American national John Allen Chau had disappeared weeks ago. Chau was most probably killed on November 17 when he ignored the tribe's attempts at fending him off and he continued to walk straight towards the tribals.

READ | Kidnappings once happened on Andaman island where John Chau died. What happened next

The Sentinelese are among one of the few remaining uncontacted tribes of the world and the Indian government prevents both natives and foreigners from approaching them in any way.

The seven fishermen who took Chau to the island, had last seen the American missionary being attacked with arrows and then being buried on the beach. Even nine days since his death, the body is yet to be recovered from the island as the authorities are weary of confronting the isolated tribe.

The Sentinelese normally attacks any outsider who approaches them. A similar incident was last reported in 2006 when two fishermen had strayed into the island and were killed by the tribe.

The local authorities are now trying to understand the behaviour pattern of the Andaman tribe to find ways to retrieve the body. However, according to the AFP report, anthropologists have said that it may be impossible to recover Chau's body.

On Sunday, Minister of State for External Affairs, VK Singh expressed grief at Chau's death but also clarified the Indian government's stand that doesn't allow anyone to visit the uncontacted tribe North Sentinel Island.

Singh told news agency ANI, "We have had such incidents earlier as well, which is why the government had a policy that nobody should go there. It's a separate tribal group, they do not want outsiders. It is a very sad incident."

READ | John Chau and the Sentinelese: How American man met his end on Andaman island

WATCH | Did John Allen Chau have any business going to the Sentinel Island?

====== 56 ========

SHIKHAR DHAWAN REVELS IN MASSIVE INDIAN TURNOUT AT SCG: GUESS THEY LOVE ME A LOT

Shikhar Dhawan was all praise for the support they have received in Australia so far (@BCCI Photo)

The Sydney Cricket Ground stands were filled with thousands of blue shirts, which outnumbered the yellow on Sunday. With a Wankhede-like atmosphere, it was seemingly a home away from home for the Men in Blue, who were fighting to save the three-match T20I series against hosts Australia.

Virat Kohli's men put smiles on the faces of their fans by romping to a six-wicket win and thereby leveling the tightly-fought series.

Not many had left the stands as most blue shirts from the strong crowd stayed back for the presentation ceremony and cheered on for their superstar cricketers.

Things become pretty easy when Rohit, Dhawan do the job for us: Virat Kohli

As pointed out by the presenter, opener Shikhar Dhawan received one of the loudest cheers as made his way to collect the Man of the Series Award. The Delhi batsman, as usual, played to the gallery as he brought out his trademark "thigh-slap" celebration and made sure the decibel levels hit the roof.

Acknowledging the support he was receiving, Dhawan said: "I guess, they love me a lot. Now I will make them cheer more [thigh slaps]."

India extend unbeaten streak in T20 Internationals to 10 series after SCG win

"I enjoy entertaining people and I enjoy playing entertaining cricket. People enjoyed watching good cricket out there," he added.

"Yeah, absolutely [feels like being in India]. It's tremendous to see this kind of support. It's good that stadium was full. It's lovely. I am sure that all the Indian supporters out there are going to support us during the Test series. We're going to do well there as well."

India vs Australia, 3rd T20I: Report | Highlights | As it happened

Shikhar Dhawan lit up the early stages of the run chase with some awesome strokeplay!#AUSvIND @toyota_aus pic.twitter.com/COK9uOLP33 cricket.com.au (@cricketcomau) November 25, 2018

Dhawan's love for Australia was visible with the way he went about his business in the two innings he played during the three-match series.

The left-handed opener hit a 42-ball 76, which included 10 boundaries and two sixes, in the rain-marred first T20I, which went in Australia's favour.

Also read - Aaron Finch says Australia are feeling good for Tests after drawn T20I series

He helped India get off to a flyer on Sunday in Sydney with a 22-ball 41 that had six fours and two huge ones.

Dhawan is not going to be part of the Test squad that will face Australia in the upcoming four-match series, starting December 6 in Adelaide.

READ - Krunal Pandya records best T20I bowling figures by a spinner in Australia

Meanwhile, captain Kohli pointed out that the crowd support in Sydney gave the team the extra motivation during the tricky chase of 165.

Kohli led from the front once again as the right-hander slammed an unbeaten 61 and stiched a crucial 60-run stand with Dinesh Karthik as India gunned down the total of 165 with two balls to spare.

"It's always been like this. I mean, MCG and SCG are two stadiums where our fans come out in huge numbers. They're really loud and they motivated the guys to get this victory for us," Kohli said.

====== 57 ========

DEEPIKA PADUKONE IS A VISION IN BOHO-CHIC LEHENGA FOR MUMBAI RECEPTION

Caption:

Though Deepika's regal and boho look was out of this world, it was her hairstyle that was highlight of the night for us.

====== 58 ========

7-YEAR-OLD JAMES IS BATTLING ANEMIA, NEEDS BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT

7-year-old James Barthlomew is rapidly losing his health. He cannot walk and run around like other kids. Some days he bleeds from his mouth, gets dizzy and feels down. As the days go by, Leo and Daisy's worry for their son intensifies. Without an urgent bone marrow transplant they will lose him as the disease has already taken over his body.

Couple of months back, James was happily going to school attending his 2nd std classes but all of sudden he got Jaundice. While diagnosing him the doctors found that his liver was severely damaged and there was a huge drop in his blood cells count and on further tests doctors confirmed that James was suffering with Aplastic anemia. This is a medical condition where the bone marrow shuts and stops producing new blood cells.

"My son keeps telling me. 'Amma, I don't like being here, I want to go home, I want to play with my friends.' I couldn't see my son bleeding and crying out in pain" says his mother, Daisy.

James has already undergone five blood transfusions in past 2 months and as blood transfusions are expensive he cannot undergo lifelong blood transfusions. He needs an immediate bone marrow transplant and his younger sister is likely to be a donor.

"I got stunned when I came to know what my son is going through. I almost gave up as I knew the treatment would cost 12 Lakhs. Being a bus driver earning Rs.10,000 per month I am helpless," says Leo, his father.

James life depends on the bone marrow transplant. For months, Leo and Daisy spent their little savings and borrowed money to save their son. Any contribution made towards this fundraiser will help this family save their little son.

You can donate online through this link or do a bank transfer to the following account details:

Account Number: 2223330011603367

Beneficiary Name: James Barthlomew

IFSC: YESB0CMSNOC

This bank account accepts only INR NEFT/IMPS transfer, it does not accept direct cash deposits.

====== 59 ========

EXCUSES PEOPLE GIVE TO NOT BUY INSURANCE (ONLINE)

Shopping for life insurance is not fun, but it is one of the most important tasks in your adult life. However, most people associate buying life insurance with posthumous benefits to their family. And as with everything associated with death, one tends to postpone buying insurance for 'tomorrow'. And don't we all know, tomorrow never comes? As a result, only 20% of the insurable population in India is covered. Yes, that's right. A dismal 20%!



Some don't trust the internet enough to use it to make investments. Some are blissfully unaware of the many benefits of buying life insurance. Some are, well, just plain lazy. Here are 5 of the most common excuses that people offer when not buying insurance, and why they will have to come up with newer ones. Because they just don't work.

1. "I'm young. I'm healthy. I don't even need life insurance!"

Let's accept it. We all need life insurance at some point of time or the other. And you won't be young or healthy forever. So why not make the most of it while you still are? A young age translates to lesser premium in insurance lingo. The earlier you start, the lower would be your annual premium payout. Starting early also helps you make more money, thanks to the principle of compound interest. Also, last we checked, you WERE interested in saving on your taxes, weren't you? Well, Section 80C of the Income Tax Act gives a tax exemption on any amount invested in the same, so you end up taking a little more salary home. So let's start again. Are you sure you don't need life insurance?

2. "But my employer is giving me a life cover. Why do I need to spend extra?"

An employer coverage is a good start. Will it be of use to you? Frankly speaking, not much. An employer policy is unlikely to cover more than your basic salary for a year and that would hardly amount to anything in the near future. Also, where is the guarantee that you would not leave the job, or lose it? In which case, you will find yourself uninsured because insurance coverage from an employer is not portable.

3. "I don't have the money to buy life insurance; it's bound to be expensive!"

That life insurance is expensive is a myth. Thanks to the World Wide Web, you can compare polices from different companies online, and choose a plan that suits your needs and budgets. Besides, as we mentioned earlier, the earlier you start in life, the lesser premium you have to pay. Other than facilitating systematic saving by allocating money for premium at the end of every year, a life insurance policy also gives a lump sum payout, adding to your financial victories. Regular saving over a period of time also ensures that a decent corpus is built to meet financial needs at various stages of life.

4. "I have a lot of assets."

The primary use of a life insurance policy is to leave family members with a backup plan in case of any eventuality. A lot of people think it is okay to simply leave behind assets like businesses, and expect their loved ones to liquidate them to make ends meet (in case of loss of a steady income). What they fail to factor in is the time this process takes, and the difficulties their family members will face while waiting for the liquidation to go through. But with a life insurance policy in place, you can say good-bye to these troubles and ensure a secure future for your family.

5. "I don't have the time to go through the long process. It requires a lot of documentation."

This is 2018. It is the digital age. Long buying processes, meetings with pesky insurance guys, never-ending documentation- these are all things of the past. You can now compare different policies online and choose the best plan that suits your needs. You can then apply for the chosen plan online, and scan and upload all the documents, just lounging on your sofa. For example, HDFC Life offers an easy application process that can be completed in all of 30 minutes. Yes, 30 minutes is all it will take for you to secure your family's future, make a profitable investment, save on your taxes, and ensure some extra earnings too!

It's time to stop making excuses and start making informed choices. It's time to buy life insurance.

====== 60 ========

IS YOUR FRONT DOOR AS SECURE AS YOUR BANK ACCOUNT?

How often do you change your ATM pin or your netbanking password? Every two months? Every time the bank reminds you?



How often do you change the lock on your front door?



The Har Ghar Surakshit 2018 Report by Godrej Locking Solutions and Systems found that while 70% of all thefts in India are home thefts, only 30% are digital thefts.

Image credit: Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

Yet, Indians continue to place far greater emphasis on keeping their online security mechanisms up to date. This includes antivirus and anti-Trojan software, regular password changes, and myriad digital security measures.

Home security pales in comparison. Though locks are considered the primary source of home safety, locks remain unchanged throughout people's lives. Even locks on doors of rented homes stay unchanged. The possibility that previous tenants or the owner may possess key copies is ignored, risking physical safety of families.

The facts from Godrej LocksS' Har Ghar Surakshit report, covering more than 700 respondents are baffling.

Image credit: Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

Undeniably, awareness on digital safety is widely prevalent. Cybersecurity threats are widely discussed, whether in popular culture, internet or news. Service providers, especially financial institutions are legally obligated to protect customer assets. Consequently, they routinely remind patrons to stay vigilant about their cyber security.



Home Safety has no such mechanism for widespread awareness. This is alarming, given that studies show 1,20,000 reported cases of home robbery in India every year.

Image credit: Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

Despite these numbers, Indians take great pains to fortify their digital presence, while largely ignoring the safety of their actual homes.

Image credit: Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

The technology-savvy mentality has not been extended to home safety measures, despite multiple options in the market that combine cutting edge technology with locks.

Image credit: Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

The Har Ghar Surakshit report notes that people are aware of superiority of digital locks, but there is no proactive implementation when it comes to protecting lives and physical assets within homes.



In light of this, Godrej LocksS embarked on a nationwide effort to strengthen awareness around home safety. In 2017, it marked November 15th as Home Safety Day and unveiled #HowSafeAreYou, a campaign that successfully reached millions with their message.



Instead of promoting a product, Godrej LocksS went to the source for solutions. Three reformed robbers were interviewed, revealing their modus operandi, especially regarding measures to deter them from breaking into homes.



This solution-first approach has continued. Apart from commissioning a pioneering report on home safety, Godrej LocksS has announced 'Har Ghar Surakshit', a nationwide movement to promote a shift in the Indian consciousness. The aim is to orchestrate behavioral change towards the issue, underlining that home safety requires dedicated and lasting attention.

Shyam Motwani, Executive Vice-President and Business Head, Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems

Shyam Motwani, Executive Vice-President and Business Head, Godrej Locking Solutions & Systems said, "As a brand that is synonymous with trust and safety, Godrej LocksS purpose is to make people aware of the importance of home safety. Last year, we unveiled a yearlong campaign, #HowSafeAreYou. with the objective of changing the way people look at home safety. #HarGharSurakshit, the latest initiative by Godrej LocksS, will address a nationwide concern of home safety. We want every Indian to take a conscious note of their home safety, especially in today's day and age. We, at Godrej LocksS, will focus all our efforts towards driving offline and online activities aimed at bridging India's personal security gap and aspire to make every Indian home safe by 2021. I am happy to share that we will be committing INR 100 crore over the next 3 years towards this endeavour."



Acknowledging this need and commenting on #HarGharSurakshit initiative, Mr. Jamshyd Godrej, Chairman and Managing Director, Godrej & Boyce Mfg.Co. Ltd, said, "As a responsible player in this space, it has been our responsibility and endeavour to create awareness around home safety. Last year on November 15th, a day we call the 'Home Safety day', we unveiled the yearlong #HowSafeAreYou campaign with the objective of changing the way people look at home safety. This campaign witnessed a huge support and reached out to millions via traditional and digital media. Godrej Locking Systems and Solutions have been at the forefront of providing safe and secure locking solutions for homes across India. With the faith reposed in us by our countrymen, we are embarking on the second year of this campaign with our nationwide initiative called #HarGharSurakshit. We are confident that this initiative will bring about a behavioural change and promote the larger cause of enhancing safety across homes of people in urban and rural India."

====== 61 ========

CONGRESS PRESSURISING SC TO DELAY AYODHYA HEARING, SAYS PM MODI

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has blamed the Congress party for the delay in the construction of Ram mandir at the disputed site in Ayodhya, in his election rally in Rajasthan's Alwar.

Modi said one of the Congress leaders had asked the Supreme Court to delay the Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls.

"Congress is dragging judiciary into politics. Congress is creating an atmosphere of fear for the judiciary. One of their leaders asked the Supreme Court to delay the Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls," he said.

====== 62 ========

BJP WILL NOT COME BACK TO POWER IF RAM TEMPLE IS NOT BUILT: UDDHAV THACKERAY

Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray built pressure on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the early construction of the proposed Ram temple in the run-up to the upcoming 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Hitting out at the BJP government for the delay in construction of the Ram temple, Thackeray said if they failed to deliver the poll promise they may lose the upcoming Lok Sabha assembly elections.

Thackeray reached Ayodhya on Saturday, along with, scores of Sena supporters for the "Dharam Sabha" being organised separately by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad to push for the construction of the temple.

====== 63 ========

SABARIMALA ROW: 82 PEOPLE, INCLUDING BJP LEADER ARRESTED

Around 82 pilgrims, who breached the security zone near Sabarimala's 'vavarunada' area and started chanting prayers despite prohibitory orders, have been arrested by the police and later released on bail. The arrested men include Bharatiya Janata Party Kottayam district treasurer KG Kannan.

====== 64 ========

ARMY BETTER PREPARED TO TACKLE 26\11-LIKE ATTACKS, SAYS GENERAL BIPIN RAWAT

Army chief Bipin Rawat said that Indian Army is better prepared to tackle 26\11-like attacks. He also added that surgical strikes should not be the only way to punish the adversaries.

Watch the exclusive interview here.

====== 65 ========

GOVERNMENT SHOULD TAKE STEPS TO CONSTRUCT RAM TEMPLE, SAYS RSS CHIEF MOHAN BHAGWAT

After Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, now Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has raised the temple pitch. Bhagwat has asked the government to take steps to construct Ram Temple in Ayodhya.

====== 66 ========

CONGRESS'S PERSONAL ATTACKS ON PM MODI A SIGN OF DESPERATION?

After Raj Babbar and C P Joshi, another Congress leader has added to the party's embarrassment by making controversial comments about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's lineage.

Former Union minister Vilas Muttemwar made the comments at a party meeting in Rajasthan on Saturday. The video of his speech has gone viral on social media.

====== 67 ========

3 SUSPECTED TERRORISTS ARRESTED IN SRINAGAR

A joint team of Delhi Police's Special Cell and Jammu and Kashmir Police has arrested three suspected terrorists associated with Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK), police officials said on Sunday.

They were arrested from Srinagar. They have been identified as Tahir Ali Khan, Haris Mushtaq Khan and Asif Suhail Nadaf, they added.

====== 68 ========

MNF CHIEF ZORAMTHANGA CONFIDENT OF WINNING MIZORAM ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS

Surrounded by young party cadres in Aizawl, Mizo National Front (MNF) chief Zoramthanga seems supremely confident. It has been a long wait being the principal opposition for 10 consecutive years for the two-time Mizoram Chief Minister. At 74, he now sniffs a chance at dethroning his archrival, Congress’s Lal Thanhawla (76) after two successive terms in office.

====== 69 ========

MIZORAM CM LAL THANHAWLA ACCUSES BJP OF BUYING VOTES

Mizoram chief minister Lal Thanhawla accused the BJP of pumping money to purchase voters. He also slammed the beef ban issue in an exclusive interview to India Today. Listen in.

====== 70 ========

J&K BJP CHIEF RAVINDER RAINA ON GOVERNOR'S DECISION TO DISSOLVE ASSEMBLY

Jammu and Kashmir Governor Satyapal Malik stunned everyone after dissolving the state assembly. India Today's Sunil Bhat spoke to BJP state chief Ravinder Raina to know about his views on the matter.

====== 71 ========

THALAPATHY 63 CAST AND CREW ANNOUNCED: NAYANTHARA PAIRED OPPOSITE VIJAY

The entire cast and crew members of Thalapathy 63 have been announced. The upcoming film of Vijay marks his third collaboration with director Atlee. Their previous ventures - Mersal and Theri - were blockbuster, which has made the actor team up with Atlee yet again.

Nayanthara, who is now fondly called as the Lady Superstar of South Indian cinema, has been roped in for the project. She has earlier acted with Vijay in Villu, which was panned by critics and the audience.

Almost all the crew members, who worked with Atlee in Mersal, have been retained for the project. AR Rahaman and lyricist Vivek are again teaming up for this project.

GK Vishnu, who made his excellent debut with Mersal, has been again chosen for Thalapathy 63.

Except for the production house and the supporting cast, Atlee seems to be going with the same team he had for Mersal that includes editor Antony Ruben, stunt director Anla Arasu and art director Muthuraj.

AGS Entertainment is producing Thalapathy 63, that might also star comedy actor Vivekh.

ALSO READ | Thalapathy 63: Is Vijay-Atlee film a sports entertainer?

ALSO SEE | Sarkar Movie Review: Hero Vijay shines in unimpressive Diwali release

====== 72 ========

VISHAL ADOPTS ENTIRE VILLAGE HIT BY CYCLONE GAJA, PROMISES TO RESTORE IT

Actor Vishal, the President of Tamil Nadu Film Producers Council and Secretary of Nadigar Sangam, has adopted an entire village near Thanjavur, which has been heavily hit by the Cyclone Gaja.

Karagavayal is the name of the village, which is in Thanjavur district. Reports suggest that the place has been one of the worst affected regions in the area.

The Sandokozhi actor has adopted the village. He has promised to restore the village to its former state.

He took to Twitter to share the news with his followers.

This village is mine. #kaarkavaiyaI thanjavur district. I swear I will bring back this village to normality and this will be my responsibility forever. Model village on the way.i luv u group #socialarchitects to help me achieve this.god bless Vishal (@VishalKOfficial) November 24, 2018

In a report published in a Tamil daily, it is said that the villagers are moved by Vishal's gesture.

Many actors including Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan and Vijay have contributed money and relief materials for the victims.

Cyclone Gaja has killed 45 members, and destroyed crops. People are enraged regarding the lack of proper relief measures from the government of Tamil Nadu.

ALSO READ: Cyclone Gaja leaves 45 dead, 2 lakh displaced, CM to call on PM Modi

====== 73 ========

HRITHIK ROSHAN PENS EMOTIONAL POST FOR SUSSANNE KHAN AND KIDS

When Hrithik Roshan and Sussanne Khan announced their decision to separate after 14 years of marriage, their fans were heartbroken. They never revealed what exactly prompted this decision. This led to several conspiracy theories doing the rounds. However, the ex-couple shut their detractors by remaining friends.

Far from being being cold and distant, Hrithik and Sussanne have grown closer as friends. From parties to film screenings to vacations, Hrithik and Sussanne have been spotted together more than often in the last four years. And despite the divorce, the two share a special bond and have stuck together as a family all this while, courtesy their kids - Hrehaan and Hridhaan.

Sussanne supported Hrithik during his ugly fight with Kangana Ranaut.

Hrithik shared a series of pictures of Sussanne taking photos of him, with their children at the beach. He captioned it, "Here is Sussanne, my closest friend ( also my ex wife) capturing a moment with me and our boys. A moment in itself. It tells a story to our kids. That in a world separated by lines and ideas , it is still possible to be united. And that you can want different things as people and yet stay undivided. Here's to a more united, tolerant, brave, open and loving world.

It all starts at home."

Sussanne commented on the photo saying, "This is us. Always and beyond forever..."

Just a while back, Sussanne's dad Sanjay Khan for the first time opened up on Hrithik and Sussanne's divorce. In an interview to a magazine Khan, who recently released his autobiography The Best Mistakes of My Life, said that he's happy that Hrithik and Sussanne are still friends despite their divorce.

"Divorce is a very heartbreaking exercise. I have never asked my daughter [Sussanne] the reason for her parting [with her husband Hrithik Roshan]. I love Hrithik still and I love my daughter. They must have their reasons. Fine. But the good part is, they're still very good friends. And the children don't feel the negative impact of their separation because of the combined efforts of both to keep it working. They holiday together, they take care of the children from time to time, babysitting and stuff," Sanjay told the magazine.

However, Sanjay added that he still hopes that Sussanne and Hrithik work out their differences and get back together. "When people say that Hrithik is no longer my son-in-law, I say I have a relationship with him: he is the father of my grandchildren, and that can never be erased! So umm. I still hope they get back together. Umm That's it!"

ALSO READ | When Hrithik Roshan answered if infidelity led to divorce with Sussanne Khan

ALSO READ | Hrithik Roshan turns 44: Ex-wife Sussanne Khan has a heartfelt message for her 'forever and always'

====== 74 ========

HARMANPREET KAUR NAMED CAPTAIN AS 3 INDIANS MAKE IT TO WOMEN'S WORLD T20 XI

Indian skipper Harmanpreet Kaur was named captain of the ICC Women's World Twenty20 XI on Sunday, which also featured opener Smriti Mandhana and leg-spinner Poonam Yadav.

A selection panel comprising former players and commentators Ian Bishop, Anjum Chopra and Ebony Rainford-Brent, journalist Melinda Farrell and ICC's General Manager - Cricket, Geoff Allardice, picked the team on the basis of the players' performances in the tournament, which concluded on Sunday with Australia winning the title.

Three players from England, two from Australia and one each from Pakistan, New Zealand and the Windies have also been named in the eleven.

Also read - Australia win 4th title with 8-wicket win over England

Harmanpreet was one of two captains to make the squad along with Pakistan's Javeria Khan with player of the tournament Alyssa Healy of Australia and England's Amy Jones nominated to bat ahead of her.

All-rounders Deandra Dottin of the Windies and Allyse Perry of Australia, and England pacer Anya Shrubsole are the seam bowlers in the squad with off-spinner Leigh Kasperek of New Zealand and left-arm spinner Kirstie Gordon of England are the slow bowlers. Bangladesh's new-ball bowler Jahanara Alam has been named as the 12th player.

Also read - Alyssa Healy-Mitchell Starc become first couple to win best player at World Cups

Team of the tournament:

1. Alyssa Healy (Australia)

Matches: 6, Runs: 225, Average: 56.25, Strike Rate: 144.23, Best: 56*

2. Smriti Mandhana (India)

Matches: 5, Runs: 178, Average: 35.60, Strike Rate: 125.35, Best: 83

3. Amy Jones (England wicket-keeper)

Matches: 5, Runs: 107, Average: 53.50, Strike Rate: 113.82, Best: 53*;Dismissals: 4c/1s

4. Harmanpreet Kaur (India captain)

Matches: 5, Runs: 183, Average: 45.75, Strike Rate: 160.52, Best: 103

5. Deandra Dottin (West Indies)

Matches: 5, Runs: 121, Average: 24.20, Strike Rate: 101.68, Best: 49; Wickets: 10, Average: 7.70, Strike Rate: 8.2, Economy Rate: 5.63, Best: 5/5

6. Javeria Khan (Pakistan)

Matches: 4, Runs: 136, Average: 45.33, Strike Rate: 130.76, Best: 74*

7. Ellyse Perry (Australia)

Matches: 6, Runs: 60, Average: 60.00, Strike Rate: 122.44, Best: 39*; Wickets: 9, Average: 9.88, Strike Rate: 10.6, Economy Rate: 5.56, Best: 3/16

8. Leigh Kasperek (New Zealand)

Matches: 4, Wickets: 8, Average: 11.75, Strike Rate: 12.0, Economy Rate: 5.87, Best: 3/19

9. Anya Shrubsole (England)

Matches: 5, Wickets: 7, Average: 12.57, Strike Rate: 15.4, Economy Rate: 4.88, Best: 3/10

10. Kirstie Gordon (England)

Matches: 5, Wickets: 8, Average: 12.25, Strike Rate: 14.2, Economy Rate: 5.15, Best: 3/16

11. Poonam Yadav (India)

Matches: 5, Wickets: 8, Average: 15.75, Strike Rate: 15.0, Economy Rate: 6.30, Best: 3/33

12th: Jahanara Alam (Bangladesh)

Matches: 4, Wickets: 6, Average: 10.16, Strike Rate: 12.0, Economy Rate: 5.08, Best: 3/21

(With inputs from PTI)

====== 75 ========

AMITABH BACHCHAN TREASURES GLOVES GIFTED BY MARY KOM: THEY ARE MY GOLD MEDALS

Amitabh Bachchan posted a picture of Mary Kom's autographed boxing gloves which she had gifted to him (Yogen Shah Photo)

Boxing legend MC Mary Kom added yet another feather to her already illustrious cap by winning the gold medal at the World Championships in New Delhi on Saturday.

The whole country stood up and hailed Mary Kom's latest achievement as she became the most successful female boxer by bagging her sixth world title after she beat Ukraine's Hanna Okhota in the 48kg final by unanimous decision.

With Saturday's win, Mary became the joint-most successful boxer in the history of the world meet as she Cuba's Felix Savon's tally of six titles.

Mary Kom claims World Boxing Championships gold despite suffering from diarrhoea

Social media was flooded with congratulatory messages for Mary Kom with actors, politicians, notable athletes and fans paying tribute to arguably one of the greatest boxers of all time.

Among the many was Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan, who shared a picture of a pair of boxing gloves which he got as a gift from Mary Kom herself.

Also read - Mary Kom sets sight on Tokyo Olympics after record-breaking World Boxing gold

"MARY KOM .. what a huge honour you bring to the Country .. 6 times Gold medalist World Championship !! CONGRATULATIONS ! I ever value your BOXING GLOVES that you gifted me ! they are MY gold medals," Bachchan wrote on Twitter along with the picture of the autographed boxing gloves.

T 3005 - MARY KOM .. what a huge honour you bring to the Country .. 6 times Gold medalist World Championship !! CONGRATULATIONS !

I ever value your BOXING GLOVES that you gifted me ! they are MY gold medals !! pic.twitter.com/alTP5ZOFVW Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) November 24, 2018

Notably, Mary had won a silver on her world championship debut in 2001 and then went on to win the tournament in 2002, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2010 and 2018.

READ - Superwoman of India: Twitter salutes Mary Kom as boxing legend shines at world meet

"First of all, I would like to thank all my fans. Thank you guys, I don't have anything to give you. What I can give you is a gold for the country. They came especially for me and the Indian contingent. Today, I was a little bit emotional because for the last few years, I was not able to fight in 48 kg category.

Also Read - Sonia Chahal ends maiden World Boxing Championships campaign with a silver

"I had to jump to other categories. The effort was very challenging for me. Because of your love and support, I hope to qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. I wasn't able to qualify for Rio Games. I am still suffering.

"I can easily give a gold in the 48 kg category, but 51 kg, it's difficult because other boxers may have a height advantage," an emotional Mary Kom said after the bout.

Having been away from the boxing ring for a long time, Mary returned to competitive boxing and the 48 kg category only last year. The seasoned boxer, who seems to have successfully put behind the memories of Rio Olympics disappointment, announced her comeback by winning the Asian women's boxing championships in Vietnam.

It took eight long years for the record-breaking gold to come Mary's way, but when it came, the entire nation erupted in joy.

====== 76 ========

VIVO Y95 LAUNCHED IN INDIA FOR RS 16,990, COMES WITH 20MP AI CAMERA, HALO FULLVIEW DISPLAY

Vivo launched a new Y-series phone aka Vivo Y95 in India on Sunday. The Vivo Y95 price in India has been set for Rs 16,990. The smartphone is the successor to the Vivo Y93 and comes with a revamped design and upgraded internals. The Vivo Y95 looks mostly like the recently launched V9 Pro and includes a tiny waterdrop notch on the front, or what Vivo calls it, the Halo FullView display. This is the first Y series phone from Vivo to come with a waterdrop notched display.

Besides the notched a display, the Vivo Y95 also comes with AI based 20MP selfie camera, which Vivo claims can capture more facial details than ever and is also capable of detecting the user’s age, gender, skin tone, texture, among other things. The Vivo Y95 is also capable of detecting lighting environment to automatically deliver facial enhancements. As for the specifications, the Vivo Y95 comes with 6.22-inch HD+ Halo FullView display with 1520x 720pixel resolution. The smartphone will be available in two colours Starry Black and Nebula Purple.

Most Vivo phones are camera focused and the new Vivo Y95 is no exception. The smartphone comes with dual camera setup on the rear panel. As for the camera configuration, the Vivo Y95 packs a primary sensor of 13MP on the back panel, while the secondary camera includes a 2MP sensor for depth sensing. The company claims that the Y95 is capable of shooting professional-grade portrait shots. The 20MP front camera comes with several features like face beauty, portrait mode, panorama, AR stickers, among other things.

The Vivo Y95 has been launched in only one variant with 4GB RAM and 64GB of internal storage which is expandable up to 256GB via microSD card. The phone is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 439 and is backed by a massive 4030mAh battery. On the software front, the V9 Pro runs Funtouch OS 4.5 based on Android 8.1 Oreo.

The new Vivo Y95 will be available across offline partner outlets and Vivo India estore. Vivo is also offering an array of attractive offers on the purchase of the Vivo Y95 on offline and online channels, which include -- No Cost EMI (Upto 15 Months on Credit Cards, Debit Cards and Bajaj Finance EMI cards), Lowest EMI starts with INR 1133, Rs 1500 cashback coupon and benefits worth Rs 4,000 along with 3 TB Data from Reliance Jio.



Commenting on the launch, Jerome Chen, CMO, Vivo India said, "At the beginning of this year, Vivo committed to bring the best in product innovation, be it technology, design or pure play smartphone experience. Our Y-series has received phenomenal response from consumers across regions and age-groups. With the launch of all new Y95, we bring this promise to a wider consumer set looking for the unbeatable product experience, at an unbeatable price point."

====== 77 ========

FACEBOOK TO TRAIN 5 MILLION INDIANS IN DIGITAL SKILLS BY 2021

Facebook, in a bid to help small businesses in India expand their reach and access global markets, is planning to train 5 million Indians in digital skills in coming three years.

"Facebook is committed to enabling small businesses to reach the global economy, and we are partnering various organizations to reach out to people. We are committed to training 5 million people with digital skills and global market access by 2021," Facebook's Public Policy Director, India, South and Central Asia Ankhi Das told PTI.

The social media giant has already trained one million people across 150 cities and 48,000 villages in India via its various initiatives which include Boost Your Business and She Means Business among others. The initiative, wherein people are being taught to utilise its native platform and its photo-sharing site, is a part of its Community Boost Program and it is aimed to help small business enterprises to boost their businesses and bring them up from the grassroot level to a level where they can be a more formal part of the economy.

Apart from helping small businesses to boost businesses, Facebook's initiative also helps them to post job listings.

"At Facebook, we want to ensure that the benefits of connectivity are realised by everyone, everywhere, in India. Our mission at Facebook is to empower local entrepreneurs with digital skills so that they can grow their business," she added.

The social media giant, which considers India as one of its most important markets, said that its Community Boost Program is already active across the 29 states in the country which includes Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Odisha, Karnataka, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam among others, and that its content that is used to train the people in these states in available in 14 local languages.

When asked about the steps that the platform was taking to ensure that these businesses don't give misleading or fraudulent information on its platform, Das said that it takes appropriate action whenever someone reports a matter.

ALSO READ: Facebook vs rest of the world: Facebook releases internal memo to defend its hiring of Definers

Talking about the measures the company was taking to curb the spread of misinformation and hate speech, including against these businesses, Das said that company removes content whenever its reviewers flag off something that has the potential to cause harm. Additionally, the company also uses artificial intelligence-based tools to report inappropriate content.

====== 78 ========

MOTO G7, MOTO G7 PLUS, MOTO Z4 KEY SPECS LEAKED ONLINE

Lenovo is expected to renew Motorola G-series with two mid-budget smartphones-- Moto G7 and Moto G7 Plus-- sometime next year. The company is also expected to launch a Z-series smartphone-- Moto Z4-- in 2019 that will succeed its Moto Z3. While there is still sometime left till the company officially unveils these smartphones, fresh leaks, that emerged recently, give us some ideas as to what we can expect from these phones.

According to serial tipster Andri Yatim, the Moto G7 will run on Qualcomm Snapdragon 660 system-on-chip and it will sport 4GB RAM along with an internal memory of 32GB. The Moto G7 Plus, on the other hand, will work on a processor from Qualcomm's Snapdragon 700 series, possibly Snapdragon 710, and it will be available in two RAM variants- one with 4GB RAM and the other with 6GB RAM- along with a 64GB storage space.

Moto Z4, as per the tipster, would have Qualcomm Snapdragon 8150 in its core it would sport 6GB RAM. The phone will be available in two memory variants- one with 64GB memory and the other with 128GB space.

The tipster didn't mention if any of Motorola's upcoming smartphones would come with the option to expand the storage space using a microSD card.



Notably, this is not the first time that we are hearing about the Moto G7. Previous leaks suggest that the phone will come with a 6-inch display and a curved glass back. It would feature thinner bezels and a waterdrop notch in the front. The tiny notch on top will house a front camera along with an earpiece and an ambient light sensor.

The phone, as the previous reports suggest, would also come with a 3.5mm jack. Additionally, it would come with a dual rear camera setup that would be placed directly about the Motorola logo in the top quadrant of the phone. The Motorola logo at the back would also house a fingerprint scanning system.

ALSO READ: New Moto G7 renders reveal waterdrop notch, glass back and dual cameras

Besides this, we also know that the phone would run on Android 9 Pie out-of the-box and that it would come with a battery measuring 3,500mAh.

====== 79 ========

WHAT DEEPIKA WORE TO WEDDING DINNER BY HUSBAND RANVEER'S SISTER RITIKA

Caption:

Apart from her stunning ensemble, it was Deepika's hairstyle that stole the show. Adorned with a halo made of roses forming a beautiful tiara, Deepika went for a crown-braid for her hairstyle.

====== 80 ========

RANBIR KAPOOR'S SISTER RIDDHIMA ACCUSED OF COPYING DESIGNS FROM FAMOUS BRAND

Ranbir Kapoor's sister Riddhima Kapoor Sahni has been riding high with the success of her personal line of jewellery collection called 'R’ Jewelry by Riddhima Kapoor Sahni.

And recently, she even launched a new festive collection which featured a pearl and diamond earring.

However, it looks like the earrings are a copy of legendary Kokichi Mikimoto's earrings (he is the famous creator of first cultured pearl). In fact, people even called out the picture used by Riddhima in the post saying that it was taken from Mikimoto's website.

The earrings were called out by Diet Sabya, which is an anonymous Instagram account dedicated to exposing 'inspirations' (or should we say gandi copies) in the world of fashion.

The account exposed the alleged copy with the caption, "The legendary Kokichi Mikimoto is known in the pearl world as the King of Pearls’. His cultured pearls’ patented in 1916 is a benchmark for the industry at large. So, naturally Jewellery designer of the year’, @riddhimakapoorsahniofficial couldn’t help herself from selling the iconic Mikimoto pearl and diamond earrings under her namesake label. If this is not #gutsontoast, we don’t know what is!"

Here's the post that Riddhima shared on her account:

After the post was shared by Diet Sabya, many people started calling out Riddhima and some even commented on her profile calling her designs fake.

These comments were taken from Riddhima's post which she later deleted.

Right now, Ranbir Kapoor's sister works as the creative head for R’ Jewelry’ by Riddhima Kapoor Sahni & Sam & friends’

ALSO SEE | Shweta Bachchan brand accused of plagiarism days after launch

====== 81 ========

MANUSHI CHHILLAR IS A RAVISHING PRINCESS IN THIS DREAMY GOWN. SEE PICS

Short description:

Manushi Chhillar is having the time of her life attending the Miss World 2018 pageant in China. Recently, the diva took to Instagram to post pictures of her wearing two stunning ensembles.

====== 82 ========

ANCHOR DAD GETS VIDEOBOMBED 2.0. INTERNET CANNOT STOP LAUGHING

Zafar Jaspal's kid barging in on his live interview

Remember the Robert E Kelly or BBC dad, who became an internet sensation after his kids barged into his room during a live interview.

It was one of the funniest videos of 2017 and was so widely circulated that Professor Robert E Kelly became the BBC Dad.

In fact, Professor Kelly and his family made it to the social media Hall of Fame after his kids hilarious antics.

Well, it’s a new year, and there is a brand new dad on a new channel and he is giving an even more hilarious reaction to his kid.

A Twitter user recently posted an interview clip from Al Jazeera's news channel with an expert, Zafar Jaspal talking on live TV.

In the viral video, Zafar can be seen stopping his son with subtle hand moments to not come in front of the camera. But his son misunderstanding the situation comes right in the front, when Zafar flinches and sends him off for creating nuisance.

All in true desi parents feels!

The viral video was instantly shared on social media and garnered about 1,246 retweets 2,207 likes. Zafar is even being called the Al Jazeera dad or Pakistani dad

After the hilarious video was posted online, Twitter naturally took action and started posting hilarious reactions. Here are some of the best tweets:

That is the universal face a father makes when their son causes trouble in public. Nima Yaghmaei (@NimaYaghmaei) November 23, 2018

that kid so got a thapar afterwards Sid (@StrictlySid) November 24, 2018

Aggresive Dad thou Suhaib Dhuhulow Jnr (@SuhaibJnr) November 24, 2018

Bahahaha I understand this way too deeply for it to be healthy Tan (@Tan_Sukhera) November 24, 2018

I like to see the kid's face after the interview!! Naseem (@Nasim_81) November 23, 2018

Haha no ambiguity - that kid knew to leave the scene ASAP Mohammed Momeen (@abu_yaqoob17) November 24, 2018

Next time everybody lock the door HAIDER ALI KHAN (@Haider42059) November 24, 2018

Traditional i DaD Can't Stop Laughing that moment (@MsN78601) November 24, 2018

The child would be grounded for years ! Anteroon Gossip (@AnteroomGossip) November 24, 2018

What an amazing historical moment Safaa Rudwan (@RudwanSafaa) November 23, 2018

OH. He dead dead Janine Anthony (@Chiquadiva) November 24, 2018

Well, what can we say, when it comes to desi parents this is the usual reaction.

ALSO SEE | Deepika-Ranveer marriage to Housefull 4: The best memes of the week

ALSO WATCH | This Tik Tok tune has people dancing. And they dance well

====== 83 ========

DEEPIKA-RANVEER MARRIAGE TO HOUSEFULL 4: THE BEST MEMES OF THE WEEK

This week has been exciting, to say the least. From Deepika and Ranveer's wedding and reception to Riteish Deshmukh calling 'Housefull 4' four times funnier, this week has been eventful. And thus, it all ended up becoming a meme.

If you love the internet and all its creations, than you would know that memes keep it all alive and happening.

Every day any new story that breaks social media is created into a meme and is circulated widely.

So here's a round-up of all the best memes that were made this week, for you to laugh your heart out and chill with some dank memes this weekend!

Wedding pictures will be released at 6. Shaadi na hogayi, boards ka result hogaya https://t.co/6M99egeFgQ Pakchikpak Raja Babu (@HaramiParindey) November 15, 2018

*At a party*

Me : I don’t dance nooo



*DJ plays Ishq tera tadpaave*

Me : pic.twitter.com/S1LRpouWDF Pakchikpak Raja Babu (@HaramiParindey) November 20, 2018

South Delhi Girl: Where do your work?



Guy: Zara



SDG: pic.twitter.com/U6p84GxPuj Tik Tok Baba v3.3 (@0__1) November 22, 2018

It seems they had this ceremony on the rooftop of my granny's house in UP, where they usually dry sabudana papad in the sun #BhaiItalyKyuGaye pic.twitter.com/RzGlNdxm2D Gabbbar (@GabbbarSingh) November 20, 2018

*Marwadi*



Girl: Let’s go out for a dinner. Your treat



don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it

don't say it



Boy: Sasta wala restaurant dhund na please. Akshay (@AkshayKatariyaa) November 14, 2018

Heart break and all is fine, have you ever faced this situation? pic.twitter.com/BKSEYRpA1k Thain Thain Chikna (@Madan_Chikna) September 15, 2018

0 x 4 = 0 https://t.co/8UqMPLzGaq babu bisleri (@PUNchayatiii) November 23, 2018

When you’re born to save the world but Bhajan is important. pic.twitter.com/due0oSvioz #BBC (@babaBC) November 19, 2018

When you’re entering the OTP for transaction but the website logs you out of the session. pic.twitter.com/5dcCfFNnwl Pakchikpak Raja Babu (@HaramiParindey) November 20, 2018

Family Goa Trip https://t.co/lEviW8XB6X Maithun Woke (@Being_Humor) November 21, 2018

Girls after looking at Ranveer Deepika wedding pictures. pic.twitter.com/x5sfeHN3hg Pakchikpak Raja Babu (@HaramiParindey) November 22, 2018

Pretty good week, meme-wise!

ALSO WATCH | Jewellery store workers fight robbers with sword. Twitter cracks up at viral video

ALSO SEE | Viral video: Bizarre trend turns nails into miniature lipsticks and make-up brushes

ALSO WATCH | This Tik Tok tune has people dancing. And they dance well

====== 84 ========

JEWELLERY STORE WORKERS FIGHT ROBBERS WITH SWORD. TWITTER CRACKS UP AT VIRAL VIDEO

If there was a attempted robbery around you, what would come to your mind first? Call the police may be or run to save your life or lock the doors. Or if you are brave enough may be a sword as your saviour and robber slasher?

Well these Canadian shoppers did something exactly like that and it was recorded in a video, which is now going viral.

The video shows three employees of a jewellery store thwarting a robbery attempt at their shop using kirpans (swords).

The incident, which took place in Mississauga, Canada, was recorded on the store's security cameras and shows the brave employees fighting four robbers.

Here’s the robbery attempt from the surveillance camera outside the store.

You can see four people trying to break in through the window.

Store owner tells me everyone is okay. @globalnewsto pic.twitter.com/8YNVZLkk7v Kamil Karamali (@KamilKaramali) November 22, 2018

The four robbers had attempted to break into Ashok Jewellers' store by breaking the glass panels of the outlet.

After which the store's staff charged at them with swords and prevented them from entering the shop.

The footage shows the masked robbers making repeated attempts to come in and scare the employees with a hammer and a gun. But they fled the place after seeing the store's employees threatening them with swords.

The video footage has been widely retweeted on Twitter. While there were no injuries reported the attempted robbery is cracking people up and many are seeing the funny side of it.

Here are the best tweets:

The robbers think the owners have run off....nope they only went and got their swords to fight them off .....good for them?? https://t.co/DWA13IxObf Shils ?? (@ShilsHakki) November 23, 2018

Shopowners retaliate with swords....



Robbers: Yeh cheating hai! Out of syllabus question!!! https://t.co/HdfGv6zJwI Sarvesh Shenoy (@Servocorn) November 23, 2018

Wow. Those jewel thieves cannot have expected to be fought off with swords! Extraordinary. https://t.co/vSzyaDIZ2u Karina O'Sullivan (@karinacomms) November 22, 2018

Best security system ever ?? https://t.co/AFCkkHijs4 Josh K. Elliott (@joshkelliott) November 22, 2018

the way he jumped back out the window tho ?? https://t.co/rtIB0VdF7G Raiyan ?? (@RastafaRaiyan) November 22, 2018

Wow! Who needs a gun https://t.co/s3W95rkxuB a guy named Tron (@edjunkiecom) November 23, 2018

Black Friday Sale. We're Slashing Everything https://t.co/13q5gYxLh9 Gearóid Miggan (@childishGearito) November 22, 2018

Tag yourself...

I'm guy who slips and falls with a sword trying to keep up with the cool things my friends are doing. https://t.co/IYftbRRQ8D Andrew Ivimey (@Ivimey) November 23, 2018

I know this is nothing to laugh about but it plays out like a slapstick movie, especially with the owner on the right in white coming out and slipping, and then thrusting his sword out the window after the would-be robber had already gone. https://t.co/mJBUasBwvh Omer (@omerwahaj) November 22, 2018

Gotta keep that kirpan at the ready https://t.co/MiqTcShPLJ Simrun Heir (@simbadthelazy) November 22, 2018

When you go to rob the jewelry store and tell em make me grill, but the dude behind the counter is a ninja. :)https://t.co/sNPpqFLedm https://t.co/n109ry38i9 StillMe (@dutchess_becky) November 23, 2018

According to global news, a store employee said that, "When we saw them coming in, that's when we really took action and we rushed them. They had a gun but my main concern was, I wanted them to not get into my store."

Well, as long as everything ends well, we suppose!

ALSO SEE | Viral video: Bizarre trend turns nails into miniature lipsticks and make-up brushes

ALSO WATCH | This Tik Tok tune has people dancing. And they dance well

====== 85 ========

BIGG BOSS 12: SRISHTY RODE GETS EVICTED FROM THE HOUSE

After Shivashish Mishra was thrown out from the house last week, another contestant bid adieu to Bigg Boss 12 tonight. Television actress Srishty Rode, who entered the show as a single contestant, walked out of the house.

During her stay, Srishty proved she was not just a pretty face but gave a tough fight to contestants in physical tasks as well. She entertained audiences with her amazing dance moves, and her 'linkup rumours' with Rohit Suchanti as well.

After the housemates bid adieu to popular faces of small screen- Bela (Surbhi Jyoti), Mahir (Pearl Puri), Vishaka (Anita Hassanandini) from Naagin 3, Preeto (Kamya Punjabi) from Shakti Astitva Ke Ehsaas Kii, Aditya Hooda (Harshad Chopda) and RJ Jai Mittal (Shivin Narang), Salman asked Srishty to leave. The Colors family had come to spend some time and take part in some fun activities with the contestants.

BB fans would remember that early in the game, when Srishty got into a fight with Saba Khan- she was barred from captaincy for the whole season by Bigg Boss. But still, she kept herself motivated and participated in every task with great energy. Srishty was nominated along with Dipika, Deepak, Karanvir, Jasleen, Megha and Rohit.

Also read: Bigg Boss 12 contestant Srishty Rode: Biography, love life, unseen photos and videos of the hot actress

This week, Bigg Boss house was high on entertainment quotient. From Sreesanth's slap gate controversy, Surbhi Rana's no more happy club comment to Deepak and Megha's ugly fight, a lot of breaking news made their way on social media. Let's see if housemates are able to keep the house lively and buzzing in the coming week as well.

====== 86 ========

BIGG BOSS 12 WEEKEND KA VAAR PREVIEW: SREESANTH ROCKS THE DANCE FLOOR, KARANVIR GOES SHIRTLESS

Tonight, the house is all set to get a makeover. You will be surprised to see new faces instead of the current ones. Bigg Boss will invite members of the Colors family to meet the contestants.

Actors like Bela (Surbhi Jyoti), Mahir (Pearl Puri), VIshaka (Anita Hassanandini) from Naagin 3, Preeto (Kamya Punjabi) from Shakti Astitva Ke Ehsaas Kii, Aditya Hooda (Harshad Chopda) and RJ Jai Mittal (Shivin Narang) will brighten up the Weekend Ka Vaar with their fun activities with the contestants.

They will enact various situations in the house disguised as the contestants where Pearl will be Sreesanth, Surbhi as Dipika, Anita as Somi, Shivin as Deepak, Kamya will be Megha and Harshad will be Karanvir.

Then, a Bigg Boss pageant will be organised for the boys of the house and Kamya, Anita and Surbhi will judge the show. And actor Shivin will host it.

Karanvir and Rohit will set the temperature soaring with their shirtless act. They will not just flaunt their chiseled bodies but shake their legs on popular number Desi Boys. Also, Sreesanth will do a break dance on the song Muqalla Muqabla.

Also read: Anup Jalota, Shivashish Mishra and Roshmi Banik reunite for a fun-filled night

Another preview clip shows, that housemates will lash out on Romil Chaudhary for his 'poor performance this week' as the captain. Contestants who will be in his favour will appreciate his work by garland and others will spray black paint on his cut-out. Jasleen, Megha and Dipika can be seen spraying the black paint.

Let's see who will get evicted tonight. The contestants who are still in danger are- Srishty, Jasleen, Megha and Rohit.

Also read: Megha sent to torture room, calls Jasleen brainless and dumb

====== 87 ========

ISHQ SUBHAN ALLAH: ZARA AND KABIR AT LOGGERHEADS ONCE AGAIN

In an upcoming track, the newly wedded couple Zara and Kabir will be seen fighting with each other, due to clash of views. Kabir feels studying in Madrasa is good, while Zara is not in the favour.

====== 88 ========

BRIDE-TO-BE PRIYANKA GETS SPECIAL SURPRISE FROM THE SKY IS PINK CREW. NICK JOINS IN

Caption:

Ahead of her wedding with Nick Jonas, Priyanka Chopra's The Sky is Pink crew threw a little celebration party for her.

====== 89 ========

DEEPIKA AND RANVEER WEDDING PARTY DECOR IS STRAIGHT OUT OF A FAIRYTALE. SEE INSIDE PICS

Caption:

Even the menu gave us major wedding goals. It was inspired by Deepika and Ranveer's life. Here the sweets had a movie reel with DeepVeer's wedding date and "Movie of Life DeepVeer" written on it.

====== 90 ========

KAREENA KAPOOR KHAN IS BEAUTIFUL BEYOND WORDS IN ELEGANT WHITE SAREE

Caption:

She made an elegant appearance at the event in a stunning white saree and an heavily embroidered blouse of the same colour by Manish Malhotra.

====== 91 ========

KOHLI, DHAWAN FIREWORKS LIGHTS UP SCG AS INDIA LEVEL SERIES 1-1

Caption:

Virat Kohli led from the front with an 61 not out to help India maintain their 10-match unbeaten run

====== 92 ========

INDIA START TOUR OF AUSTRALIA WITH FOUR-WICKET LOSS IN FIRST T20I

A sloppy India failed to get an ideal start to the Australia tour, losing the rain-hit opening T20 International by four runs at the Gabba in Brisbane on Wednesday.

India first faltered in the field, letting Australia score 158/4 after rain shortened the contest to 17 overs a side. Glenn Maxwell was the star batsman for Australia, hammering 46 runs off 24 balls.

The 45 minute rain stoppage meant India were set a revised target of 174 runs in 17 overs.

Opener Shikhar Dhawan smashed a sublime 76 off 42 balls in the run chase before Dinesh Karthik came up with a pulsating 30 off 13 balls towards the end but India still finished agonisingly short on 169/7.

"What we can do is learn from the mistakes and get back better. On the day, if we can have three-four guys to stand up for the team, that's what we want. Don't have much time to think of things, which can be a good thing as well as a bad thing," Virat Kohli said at the post-match presentation.

It was a morale boosting win for Australia, who have endured a dismal run of late in limited overs cricket.

The second match of the three-match series will be played in Melbourne on Friday.

====== 93 ========

TEAM INDIA DEPARTS FOR TOUR OF AUSTRALIA

The Indian cricket team left for Australia Friday for a gruelling tour, eyeing a maiden Test series win Down Under, which will see them play four matches in whites, three ODIs and as many T20 Internationals.

Various members of the team took to Tweeter to share their feelings ahead of their departure with chinaman Kuldeep Yadav terming it an "exciting challenge".



"Exciting challenges ahead. Off to Australia with the boys #TeamIndia," tweeted Kuldeep, who posted a picture with his teammates comprising young wicketkeeper and batsman Rishabh Pant, Rohit Sharma and others.

Pacer Jasprit Bumrah tweeted his picture and wrote, "Off we go! #Australia #Travelbound".

"Taking off to head down under," wrote Krunal Pandya on the micro blogging site as he posted snaps with team mates.

At the pre-departure press conference on Thursday, Kohli emphasised on the need for the batsman to step up.

Head coach Ravi Shastri categorically said that there won't be any chopping and changing in the ODI team from now with just 13 games remaining before the World Cup.

Experts and former players are seeing this tour as India's best bet to defeat Australia in Tests as the hosts will be without their two key batsman, Steve Smith and David Warner, who are facing a year long ban for their involvement in ball tampering scandal in South Africa.

====== 94 ========

ADVANTAGE PM MODI IN BIHAR, JHARKHAND AND ODISHA?

Almost half of the voters in Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand want to give the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government another chance in New Delhi even though they aren't very happy with its performance in the last four-and-a-half years, India Today's Political Stock Exchange (PSE) has revealed.

The PSE survey throws another interesting finding which shows how chief minister Nitish Kumar's popularity has risen from 46 to 48 percent in just two months while his counterpart in Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, slipped by five per cent.

====== 95 ========

SAVE THE CONSTITUTION RALLY HELD IN MUMBAI

A mega 'Save the Constitution' rally was held in Mumbai today. The rally was backed by Congress, NCP and other non-BJP parties. Jignesh Mevani, Hardik Patel and Kanhaiya Kumar also participated in this rally.

====== 96 ========

MADHYA PRADESH ELECTIONS: ASSETS OF RE-CONTESTING MLAS GREW BY 71 PER CENT IN 5 YEARS

The average assets of re-contesting MLAs in Madhya Pradesh assembly elections has seen a sharp rise by 71 per cent over the last five years, according to a report by Madhya Pradesh Election Watch (MPEW) and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).

MPEW and ADR have analysed the affidavits of 167 re-contesting MLAs in the 2018 Madhya Pradesh assembly elections.

As per the analysis, average assets of re-contesting MLAs in 2013 was Rs 5.15 crore. While it is now Rs 8.79 crore. Thus, the average growth in assets of re-contesting MLAs from 2013 to 2018 is Rs 3.64 crore i.e. by 71 per cent.

Two of the top three re-contesting MLAs with highest assets are from the BJP. Its candidate Sanjay Pathak from Vijayraghavgarh has declared assets worth Rs 226 crore, his assets have grown by 86 per cent over the last five years. Assets of Congress candidate Sanjay Sharma from Tendukheda constituency have grown by 100 per cent, he has declared worth Rs 130 crore. While assets of BJP candidate Divyaraj Singh from Sirmour have seen a meteoric rise over the past five years --from Rs 4 crore in 2013 his declared assets have risen to Rs 62 crore in 2018.

Party-wise analysis of average increase in assets of re-contesting MLAs has also thrown interesting figures.

Average assets increase for the 107 BJP MLAs is a whopping 84 per cent. In 2013, their average assets were Rs 4.60 crore which is now Rs 8.50 crore. Average assets of 53 re-contesting Congress in 2013 was Rs 6.59 crore, it has risen to Rs 9.82 crore in 2018.

ADR has said that assets of 7 re-contesting MLAs have not been analysed as their affidavits were either badly scanned or their complete affidavits were not available on ECI website.

Madhya Pradesh goes to polls on November 28.



ALSO READ: Uncertain ride ahead for Shivraj as Madhya Pradesh gives mixed verdict on his popularity: PSE poll



ALSO WATCH: Not an easy battle for Shivraj in Madhya Pradesh: PSE poll

====== 97 ========

INDIA WIN 3RD T20I TO LEVEL SERIES AGAINST AUSTRALIA

Virat Kohli fired the opening salvo on the Australia tour with a match-winning 61, helping India win the third T20 International by six wickets and draw the three-match series 1-1 in Sydney on Sunday.

Kohli's sublime 41-ball knock and his 60-run unbeaten stand with Dinesh Karthik (22 not out off 18) gave India the much needed series levelling win ahead of the all important Test series beginning December 6 at Adelaide.

The captain's perfectly executed chase in 19.4 overs came after Shikhar Dhawan (41 off 22 balls) and Rohit Sharma (23 off 16 balls) provided a flying start to the innings.

Earlier, Krunal Pandya took career-best figures of 4-36 as Australia were restricted to 164-6 in 20 overs.

Australia won the opening T20 by four runs while the second game was a washout, putting additional pressure on India who came here at the back of winning six T20 series in a row.

====== 98 ========

1971 INDIA-PAKISTAN WAR: VALIANT TALES OF LANCE NAIK ALBERT EKKA AND MAJOR HOSHIAR SINGH

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 99 ========

VIRAT KOHLI IS ALWAYS LOOKING TO CREATE AN IMPACT: VVS LAXMAN TO INDIA TODAY

Former India cricketer VVS Laxman feels Virat Kohli still has a lot to learn as captain but praised the world number one batsman for the way he has embraced the added pressure that comes with the job.

Kohli is the second most successful Indian Test captain after MS Dhoni but just two of his 24 wins have come out of the sub-continent (excluding the West Indies series).

"Virat knows he missed a great opportunity in South Africa and England because the Indian team was more superior on both occasions than the opposition. He knows his team has got the potential to go out and beat Australia in Australia.

"Kohli will be focussing on that and thinking positively about the challenge down under. He won't be thinking about the if not's but will be thinking about how his team can beat the Aussies," Laxman told India Today in an exclusive chat.

Laxman also praised the way Kohli has evolved as a captain but said that he is still a work in progress.

"Virat Kohli's performance speaks for itself. Even in the first Test match he captained in Adelaide in 2014 he went for the win and I was happy with the approach he showed. That also shows his personality which is very positive, aggressive and he is always looking to create an impact.

"That attitude has rubbed on to the rest of the boys. With more success on overseas tours he (Kohli) will gain more experience as a captain. I definitely feel he is a good captain in the longer version. He relishes challenges and loves the responsibility.

"I have seen some captains succumb to the extra pressure but in Kohli's case it has enhanced his performance and his reputation as a batsman since the time he started leading the team. I believe he is a good captain but still work in progress," Laxman said.

====== 100 ========

WHAT IS RED CARPET WELCOME AND WHERE DID IT COME FROM?

Foreign dignitaries are usually given a red carpet welcome. Here Iranian President Hassan Rouhani being welcomed by President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. (Reuters file photo)

Walking on a red carpet is considered as a privilege and taken as a pride by those who walk upon it at high-profile events. The hosts roll out red carpets to let their guests know that they are honoured. But red carpet may also land you in trouble, at least in politics. Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh just found it.

A red carpet was being laid in Amritsar on Monday for Amarinder Singh. The venue was the site where a bomb blast killed three persons and injured others on Sunday. The Punjab Police called it a terror-related incident.

When TV cameras captured the rolling out of a red carpet for Amarinder Singh, someone high in the administration got it withdrawn. The organisers might not be at fault as red carpet welcome is a norm for politicians in India, more so if the politician is in the government.

Carpets are anyway very easily found in India, which is the world leader in handmade carpets. India is the top manufacturer and exporter of handmade carpets in the world both in terms of value and volume. About 75-80 per cent of total production is exported.

There is no separate data for red carpets but given the number of politicians from panchayat to Parliament, India must be producing the largest volume of red carpets.

By the way, red carpets are foreign in origin. The oldest reference to red carpet is found in a Greek play - the Agamemnon by Aeschylus, the famous playwright of Greece -- dated 458 BC. This was the time around which Gautam Buddha lived and preached in India and Ajatshatru of Magadh (in modern south Bihar) was the mightiest king in India.

The Greek story is very interesting.

In the play, king Agamemnon goes away from the capital to fight a war leaving behind his wife Clytemnestra. The war is long drawn-out. Both the king and queen don't stay faithful during this time.

Agamemnon returns to the capital with his concubine named Cassandra. Despite her own infidelity, queen Clytemnestra turns vengeful. She rolls out a red carpet for her victorious husband.

However, there is a catch. Agamemnon doesn't want to walk on the red carpet. According Greek beliefs, only gods were allowed to walk on the red carpet. The king feared that something bad would happen if he walked on the red carpet. But the queen insisted, the king set his feet on the red carpet and met a sorry end.

The red carpet travelled from Greece to the rest of the world as the European colonisers spread all over the globe. The first well documented use of red carpet in modern times comes from the US where in 1821, a red carpet was laid for the then President James Monroe to welcome him ashore from a riverboat in South Carolina.

In 1902, red carpets were used in New York to welcome and guide the passengers of a new express train. Later from 1920s, Hollywood made red carpets more popular and fashionable.

It is not certain as to when red carpet was first used in India for welcoming a high dignitary. But at the Delhi Durbar in 1911, the then Viceroy Lord Hardinge welcomed the newly crowned King George V on a red carpet.

The Durbar was held at the Red Fort, which was in neglect and had been renovated for the purpose. Jungles inside the Red Fort were cleared and prepared for the occasion as a garden. And, red carpets were spread in an elaborate fashion to welcome King George V and Queen Mary in November 1911.

The red carpet has been in vogue in India ever since to welcome dignitaries and celebrities. Incidentally, even the Rajya Sabha, also called the House of Elders has red carpets spread while the Lok Sabha, the Lower House, makes do with green carpets. Though, in effect, the Lok Sabha enjoys more powers than the Rajya Sabha.

Also read: Amritsar attack: AAP's HS Phoolka holds Army chief Bipin Rawat responsible, later apologises

Watch: Red carpet welcome for Punjab CM Amarinder Singh rolled back

====== 101 ========

WHY LORD AYYAPPA SHRINE IS CALLED SABARIMALA TEMPLE

Sabarimala temple of Lord Ayyappa is in the eye of a storm after the Supreme Court last month threw the shrine open to all women. (Photo: Reuters file)

The most talked about South Indian temple of the day is Sabarimala temple. This temple is located in the Periyar Tiger Reserve forest in Pattanamthitta district of Kerala. The Supreme Court in September ordered the Sabarimala temple administration to throw it open to women of all age declaring unconstitutional a Kerala law that banned entry of menstruating women in the shrine.

Since November 21, 2016, this Kerala shrine is officially called the Sabarimala Sree Ayyappaswamy Temple. It was previously named as the Sabarimala Sree Dharma Sastha Temple. But the temple is better known by its first name, Sabarimala.

The word Sabarimala literally means the hills of Shabari, a devotee of Lord Ram mentioned in epic Ramayan. As the legend goes, Lord Ram visited Shabari in this forest while he was on his way to Lanka to rescue his Sita, who had been kidnapped by demon king Ravan.

Shabari fed Lord Ram with the berries that she had tasted for sweetness. At a little distance from Shabari's cottage, Lord Ram noticed a man doing deep meditation and enquired about the person with his host. Shabari identified the meditating man as Sastha.

As Lord Ram walked towards him, Sastha broke his meditation to receive the prince of Ayodhya. This visit is celebrated on the day of Makar Vilakku, which coincides with Makar Sankranti (January 14-15). Sastha later became a great seer and acquired many followers.

Activist Trupti Desai had to return from Kochi airport after she was not allowed to leave the complex in the wake of protests by those opposing women's entry into Sabarimala temple. (Photo: Reuters)

READ | Sabarimala row: Trupti Desai returns to Mumbai | 10 points

The hilly forest where Lord Ram met Shabari was name Shabarimala. A temple was constructed by the followers of Sastha, upon his death, at the place he greeted Lord Ram.

The temple acquired its name as Sabarimala Temple because of Shabari was considered to be the ultimate cause for its construction. As per legend, this incident took place around 4,000 years ago.

Sastha came to be known as Dharma Sastha in the following years. It is believed that Dharma Sastha takes a break from meditation every year on the day of Makar Vilakku to bless his followers.

Devotees standing in queue at the Sabarimala temple in Kerala. (Photo: Reuters)

The story of Dharma Sastha merged with another legend - of Ayyappa Swamy. In 2016, when the Sabarimala temple administration decided to rename the shrine, it was said that the two respected figures were born in different eras.

Read | The love story that kept women from Lord Ayyappa

The temple administration said that the two figures became around 700 years ago when Ayyappa Swamy attained oneness with Dharma Sastha at Sabarimala.

There is another lore which says that Sage Parasuram installed eight idols of Dharma Sastha along the Western Ghats mountains. One of the sites was where Lord Ram met Dharma Sastha. After Ayyappa Swamy attained oneness with Dharma Sastha, the two figures were worshipped as one by their followers.

The practice continued almost unabated till the middle of the last century despite the Sabarimala temple undergoing several phases of repair and rebuilding.

Protesters have hit the streets after the Supreme Court allowed entry of women in the Sabarimala temple. (Photo: Reuters)

One such rebuilding of the Sabarimala temple took place in 1950, when the old idols of Dharma Sastha and Ayyappa Swamy were replaced with one Panchakola (meaning comprising of five metals) idol of Lord Ayyappa. The five metals used in the Lord Ayyappa's idol at Sabarimala temple are gold, silver, iron, copper and lead.

Sabarimala temple is open round the year. November-December is the peak pilgrimage season when it opens for 41-day Mandal Puja. The annual festival is underway and will conclude on December 27.

It opens again between December 30 and January for Makara Vilakku festival. The temple is also opened for the first five days of every month of Malayalam calendar.

Read | Sabarimala temple open for all: Supreme Court

Watch | Sabarimala: A look at the high voltage drama

====== 102 ========

ANATOMY OF A WHATSAPP FORWARD: WHY PEOPLE SPREAD FAKE NEWS

On July 16, 2018, an IT worker Mohammed Azam visited a relative in Bidar district in Karnataka with three of his friends. They saw a few children returning from school to whom they gave Qatari chocolates out of affection.

However, suspecting them to be child-snatchers, the villagers turned hostile. The group fled in their car but the villagers called ahead to the next village and villagers there blocked the road.

Their car was flipped into a ditch. People then dragged the group of four only to beat them up with sticks and stones, killing Azam and injuring the other three.

On July 24, 2018, four women in West Bengal's Dawkimari village, Jalpaiguri, were injured in an assault by mobs on suspicion of being child-lifters.

On July 28, 2018, a 29-year-old man in Dindori, Madhya Pradesh, suspected of being a child kidnapper, was set upon by a mob wielding iron bars and bamboo rods.

Also read | WhatsApp horrified’ over lynching in India, testing new feature to tackle fake news

Similar incidents occurred in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Assam, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Gujarat, and several other states, all owing to the suspicion of the victim being a child-lifter.

Everyone who's been following the news knows that this suspicion didn't just bloom out of nowhere, but was injected into people's brains through a message which was circulated on WhatsApp. The fake message claimed that there were child-lifters in that area and people should be alert.

Two friends, Abhijeet Nath and Nilotpal Das were lynched in Karbi Anglong district of Assam on the suspicion of being child-lifters. (Photo: Twitter)

It spread like a plague, and made people blind enough to turn on any random person trying to talk to or get associated with a child. Even parents who were out with their kids got attacked. Not only this, people were beaten to death because they weren't native to the area and were present there for some work.

Since neither the Indian government track incidents of public lynching nor the Indian Crime Records Bureau keeps data regarding their occurrences across India, we do not know the exact number of people who got lynched owing to fake news.

Why fake news propagates so fast on WhatsApp

In order to understand why fake news propagates so fast on WhatsApp, India Today Education talked to dozens of people from urban and semi-urban areas. And, some of them are hard-core WhatsApp users, who do not use any social media platform but rely solely on this messaging app.

Most of the people aged between 21 and 28 didn't forward the message. While they had different reasons for it, most of them didn't do it because they don't know how to verify the authenticity of a message and couldn't risk forwarding fake news.

This age group not only refrains from forwarding messages related to political claims and government policies but also messages carrying religious information and other things as such. Cases of lynching owing to fake news about child-lifters was heard and it played a great role in raising awareness and forming a trail of messages from one group to another.

Image: India Today Magazine, Illustration by Nilanjan Das

Some people from this age group acknowledged that they do forward messages that they think are important, but only after proper verification.

While some people checked the authenticity of the messages on Google others took the following measures:

Asking a person if they think they know about the matter

Asking another person to verify the fact for them, whom they identify as a person who knows how to verify the info

Checking the information on fake news buster websites like Alt News

There were also people who directly asked the message sender about its authenticity and reason behind forwarding it. If the sender said he/she had verified the info and it was 100 per cent correct, only then did they forward the message.

Another section of users aged between 30 and 48 accepted that they forward the message if they 'think' it is genuine, or if it 'feels like' it is genuine. They didn't know how to properly verify the info provided in a message but they claimed they have a general idea of what a fake message looks like.

Fake news from a Parody handle claiming Journalist Rana Ayyub made a comment. On WhatsApp, people could not verify if the handle was real or not.

When presented with some WhatsApp forwards, they managed to verify more than half of fake news based on their 'hunch', but one or two messages did manage to pass them.

Both of these age groups have one thing in common -- if the source is a person they think won't forward fake news, they not only believe it instantly but also forward it another WhatsApp group without thinking for a second.

What is driving people to forward misinformation

Upon analysing the people who were interviewed, it was evaluated that people who are less aware of news are more prone to forwarding fake news. When asked why they forward a message in the first place, they said that they don't want to keep an information to themselves in case it is true and affects people they know.

BBC also found this as one of the reasons why people spread fake news, in its research done in India, Kenya, and Nigeria as a part of its campaign 'Beyond Fake News'.

The report shows that nationalism is driving the spread of fake news in these countries.

"People in India are sharing fake news stories with nationalistic messages for 'nation building' purposes, with the consolidation of national identity taking precedence over the need to fact-check a story," found a BBC research.

The report examines networks within Twitter and analyses how people are sharing on encrypted messaging apps (like WhatsApp), after users gave BBC unprecedented access to their phones.

Fake news doing rounds on the internet through Facebook and WhatsApp claiming a remark made by Journalist Ravish Kumar.

Following are the key findings from the report:

In India, people are reluctant to share messages which they think might incite violence but feel duty bound to share nationalistic messages

Fake news stories about India's progress, Hindu power, and revival of lost Hindu glory are being shared widely without any attempt at fact-checking

In sharing these messages, people feel like they are nation building

There is also a feeling of duty to share breaking news just in case it is true and could affect those in their networks

A sense of duty to democratise access to information is also seen to be at play here

Fake news is being unwittingly spread by people across India, Kenya, and Nigeria, as they forward messages in the hope that someone else will check the truth of the story for them

BBC's research also suggests that a significant amount of fake stories being shared are not written articles, but images and memes.

Source of fake news

When we try to look at the source of fake news, another question rises before that-- Why there is fake news in the first place?

The answer to that is simple. It is for gains:

In the form of traffic on a website meant to generate revenue by advertisement

In the form of collecting user data by letting them fill in personal details by promising something in return

In the form of image building of a political party or a political figure

Take a look at this message:

A message propagating fake information in order to drive traffic over his/her website

Taking advantage of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, the propagator of this WhatsApp forward is trying to drive traffic to his website, where he will show you ads, ask for your personal details, tell you to install an app and give you a worthless acknowledgment number in the end.

Also read | This is the reality of free-data messages you forward on WhatsApp without thinking

Also read | Is government giving free helmets as forwarded on WhatsApp?

There are also messages which promise you free stuff, but all they do is earn by showing ads.

There are dozens, if not hundreds, of fake news articles surrounding the issues of demonetisation, Statue of Unity and Rafale deal. Some try to defend the ruling government while others present 'key-facts' about the schemes highlighting the corruption involved.

And then, there are messages which call for a religion's revival and also messages related to left/right ideologies.

Fake news propagating on WhatsApp with a potential to ignite communal violence

BBC's report suggests an overlap between fake news and pro-Modi political activity in India.

Using big data analysis of networks within Twitter the BBC has found that in India, left-wing sources of fake news are only loosely aligned, if at all, whilst the right wing sources of fake news are very closely linked together. This allows right-leaning fake news to spread faster and wider than left-leaning fake news.

In her book-- 'I am a Troll', Swati Chaturvedi interviews three trolls (not named), one of which agrees that they have moved from Twitter to WhatsApp and it enables them to target a larger number of audience and makes it easier to pass on a message fit for their employer's agenda.

WhatsApp groups are fuel for propaganda

During the time I worked in a digital marketing company -- for whom I used to write -- I was baffled with their marketing technique. They were making dozens of WhatsApp groups with hundreds of members and posting the content they wanted to spread.

In my research, I came to know that the same technique is being used by people who are the source of fake news in India.

Since a WhatsApp group is made up of like-minded individuals, if a person finds a story or information useful, he/she is compelled to share it into groups, he/she is part of. From there, it travels only faster.

WhatsApp's effort at curbing fake news in India

In July this year, central government warns WhatsApp to take steps to prevent the spread of fake news via their platform or face legal action. In the same month, the messaging app offers $50,000 in funding for researchers to develop technological and social ideas to prevent the spread of fake news.

Later, WhatsApp made some changes in the app for Indian users like labelling forwarded messages as such, removing quick forward button and limiting the number of allowed forwards to five people or five groups at a time. It did stop the individual forwards carrying nonsense messages and fake news but it continues to revel in WhatsApp groups.

It also brought out full-page ads in newspaper giving "easy tips" to spot fake news.

In August, the messaging app informed the government that it is hiring a local team which includes the appointment of an Indian head, as part of steps to check fake news circulation, but it fails to meet the key demand of identifying the origin of a message.

A scene from Bhojpuri movie was shared claiming to be BSP leader stripping a Dalit woman (Image: Twitter)

In its defence, WhatsApp spokesperson said that attributing messages on WhatsApp would undermine the private nature of the app and create the potential for serious misuse as people rely on WhatsApp for all kinds of sensitive conversations, including with their doctors, banks, and families.

WhatsApp believes that the challenge of mob violence requires government, civil society, and technology companies to work together. It emphasised on educating people on how to spot fake news.

While all of that is correct, people or organizations are still using WhatsApp groups to propagate fake news suiting their agenda and the messaging app is unable to target that.

To get more updates on Current Affairs, send in your query by mail to education.intoday@gmail.com

====== 103 ========

PEECULIAR: NASA SCIENTISTS CONCERNED ABOUT SPACE TOILET MICROBES

Genome sequencing of the samples revealed that all five strains belonged to a single species | Photo from Nasa

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) is worried about the strains of the bacterium Enterobacter, identified on the toilets of the International Space Station (ISS), which can raise potential health implications for future missions, say Indian-origin scientists at the US space agency.

Five strains of Enterobacter bacterium isolated from the space toilet and the exercise platform on the ISS in March 2015 were investigated in a study led by a team from Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) and California Institute of Technology (Caltech), US.

Genome sequencing of the samples revealed that all five strains belonged to a single species, Enterobacter bugandensis (E bugandensis).

The Waste and Hygiene Compartment, or toilet, on the International Space Station | Photo from Nasa

While these were not pathogenic to humans, E bugandensis was linked to disease in neonates and a compromised patient, who were admitted to three different hospitals (in east Africa, Washington state and Colorado), the researchers said.

"Given the multi-drug resistance results for these ISS E bugandensis genomes and the increased chance of pathogenicity we have identified, these species potentially pose important health considerations for future missions," lead author Nitin Singh from Nasa-JPL Caltech said.

"However, it is important to understand that the strains found on the ISS were not virulent, which means they are not an active threat to human health, but something to be monitored," he added.

COMPARISON OF ISS STRAINS

For the study, published in the journal BMC Microbiology, the team compared the ISS strains to all publicly available genomes of 1,291 Enterobacter strains collected on Earth.

They found that the ISS isolates had similar antimicrobial resistance patterns to the three clinical strains found on Earth and that they included 112 genes involved in virulence, disease and defence.

Using computer analyses, they predicted a 79 per cent probability that they may potentially cause disease.

"Whether or not an opportunistic pathogen like E bugandensis causes disease and how much of a threat it is, depends on a variety of factors, including environmental ones," Kasthuri Venkateswaran, Senior Research Scientist at the JPL said.

"Further in vivo studies are needed to discern the impact that conditions on the ISS, such as microgravity, other space, and spacecraft-related factors, may have on pathogenicity and virulence," he noted.

(Inputs from IANS)

====== 104 ========

STAR TREK-INSPIRED AIRCRAFT HAS NO PROPELLERS, TURBINE BLADES, BUT STILL FLIES

This is the first time an airplane without moving parts has flown: MIT aerospace engineer Steven Barrett | REUTERS image for representation

The first powered flight some 115 years ago surely revolutionised the way we fly. But in the present scheme of things, scientists have developed a radical new approach towards flying. It is in the form of a small, lightweight and virtually noiseless airplane which gets airborne with no moving parts like propellers or turbine blades.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) engineers on Wednesday (November 21) described successful flight tests at an indoor campus gymnasium of the unmanned airplane powered not by engines that burn fossils fuels but by ion wind propulsion, also called electro-aerodynamic thrust.

THE AIRCRAFT

The aircraft, called Version 2 EAD Airframe, or V2, weighs only 2.45 kg with a wingspan of 5 metres.

"This is the first time that an airplane without moving parts has flown," MIT aerospace engineer Steven Barrett, who drew inspiration from fictional shuttlecraft from "Star Trek", said.

A new MIT plane is propelled via ionic wind | Photo from Christine Y He via MIT website

Electrical field strength near an array of thin filaments called emitters at the front of the wing ionises air, meaning electrons are removed and charged molecules called ions are created. These positively charged ions are attracted to negatively charged structures on the plane called collectors. As they move towards the collectors, the ions collide with air molecules, transferring energy to them. This creates a flow of air which gives the plane its thrust.

WILL IT BE HISTORIC?

Only time will tell whether the test flights at the duPont Athletic Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts, will become historic like the 1903 test flights of the first airplane by Wilbur and Orville Wright at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. And the engineers readily acknowledge that their V2 prototype is inefficient and limited.

A general blueprint for an MIT plane propelled by ionic wind. The system may be used to propel small drones and even lightweight aircraft, as an alternative to fossil fuel propulsion | Photo from MIT Electric Aircraft Initiative

COULD FLY REALLY HIGH

But it could lead to big things.

"I'm trying not to over-sell it, but there are some really exciting possibilities here," Barrett, who pointed to near-silent drones as a possibility within several years, said.

"In the long term, I'm hoping for ultra-efficient and nearly silent airplanes that have no moving control surfaces like rudders or elevators, no moving propulsion system like propellers or turbines, and no direct combustion emissions like you get with burning jet fuel," Barrett, who led the research published in the journal Nature, added.

The researchers conducted 11 test flights in which V2 flew about 200 60 metres, typically flying less than 2 metres off the ground.

The plane, defined as a solid-state machine because it has no moving parts, was built to be as light as possible using materials like carbon-fiber, balsa wood, a plastic called polystyrene, shrink-wrap plastic and Kevlar.

VIDEO | Ion drive: The first flight

(Inputs from Reuters)

====== 105 ========

ELON MUSK SMOKES POT. NASA TO REVIEW SPACEX WORKPLACE CULTURE

When Elon Musk smokes up, it appears the fallout can be cosmic. The star tech entrepreneur, 47, took a hit of marijuana during a live podcast in September (It's legal in California.). Now, Nasa says it will review the workplace safety culture at two companies, including Musk's SpaceX, that were chosen to fly astronauts.

Nasa didn't explicitly blame its "cultural assessment study" on Musk's joint (or his drinking whiskey), although it did say it would encompass "adherence to a drug-free environment". And the Washington Post reported, citing three unnamed sources, that Musk's conduct "prompted" the probe. Crew test flights are due in coming months.

SpaceX and Boeing Co are the two main contractors selected under Nasa's commercial crew program to send astronauts to space as soon as 2019, using their Dragon and Starliner spacecraft, respectively. "We are confident that our comprehensive drug-free workforce and workplace programs exceed all applicable contractual requirements," SpaceX told Reuters.

Musk is no stranger to controversy. He recently called a British diver -- one who played a key role in the Thai cave rescue -- a pedophile. "Pedo guy," were his exact words. He's being sued.

And Musk is no longer the chairman of Tesla, the electric car-making firm that he founded. Tesla made an agreement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, which sued Musk. The SEC claimed that Musk's August tweets about taking Tesla private were "false and misleading", and wanted him to be barred from running the company.

Inputs from Reuters

WATCH | Dutch team wins Elon Musk's SpaceX Hyperloop competition

====== 106 ========

WORLD'S FIRST ANNUAL REPORT ON BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION IS HERE

The 14th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity is being held from 14-29, 2018 in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt.

It is for the first that World's First Annual Report on Biodiversity Protection - 'Being 'First' Is Not Only Operation But Also Responsibility' was announced.

Who announced the World's first annual report on biodiversity protection?

Jianqiu, CEO of Yili Group, the only Chinese enterprise signing the Commitment Letter of Enterprises and Biodiversity of the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity, shared practices and experience in its protection of biodiversity with the guests and announced the 'Annual Report on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group', the first-ever-of-its-kind in the world, mentioned a PTI report.

What propelled them to discuss biodiversity at an international level?

Business development is closely bound to responsibilities. As the leader of China's dairy production, the group has witnessed steady growth in revenue and net profits over the years.

As of the third quarter of 2018, the group has rung up sales of RMB61.327 billion, representing a year-on-year increase of 16.88 per cent, thereby proving themselves a leader in the industry.

For the group, being 'first"' means not only operations but also the assumption of social responsibilities.

Salient features of the World's first annual report on biodiversity protection:

Zhang Jianqiu mentioned, apart from development, Yili is going ahead with the idea of 'Green Leadership' proposed by Group Chairman Pan Gang and is pushing forward with the strategy 'Green Industrial China.'

It is on this basis that the 'Chinese Sample' of biodiversity protection has been produced gradually, characterized by 'Disclosure, Management and Popularity' over the years.

The 15th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity will be held in China for the first time in 2020.

Yili aims for more and more Chinese enterprises to join hands with them so as to protect the biodiversity.

Why should we talk about biodiversity?

Biodiversity is a scientific term for the variety of living organisms on Earth. Basically, it is an important part of the ecosystem for we need to manage it.

Biodiversity is the key indicator of the health of an ecosystem.

Henceforth, the need of the hour is to maintain healthy ecosystems by taking steps:

Clean our water

Purify our air

Maintain our soil,

Regulate the climate,

Recycle nutrients and provide us with food.

All in all, we are completely dependent on the nature for everything from food to other basic necessities.

In order to combat the growing problems in the world, we need to discuss the solution to maintain our business using nature and not hampering it.

====== 107 ========

WHEN ART MEETS TECHNOLOGY: DISNEY'S INDIA CREW DECODES 'MAGIC' BEHIND ANIMATION FEATURE

An animated feature is a baby of not just the director and its cast, but also of talented artistes who conjure "magic", combining technology and arts, say Avneet Kaur and Norman Joseph, who worked on Disney's latest release "Ralph Breaks the Internet".

The 2012 original, about an arcade game character who rebels against being an antagonist, was a massive hit and in the sequel Ralph has moved to the world of Internet.

Avneet Kaur worked at bringing Disney princesses to screens

Avneet, who has been working at Disney Animations for more than 14 years, said being a part of "Ralph" was like a dream come true for her as she was involved in creating details about the many Disney princesses who make a cameo in the movie.

The studio had roped in the original talent behind these royal princess to once again lend their voices to these beloved characters for the epic congregation scene.

"I am currently a simulation supervisor but on 'Ralph', I was a simulation director. Visualising Disney princesses in CG (computer graphics) was a dream come true. I got to work on some iconic characters like Ariel. We were the first few of our team to realise that in CG," Avneet told PTI in an interview over phone.

"I had to work on simulation solutions for Ralph and Vanellope, Ralph's best friend. I also got to work on Shank, the character voiced by Gal Gadot," she added.

Norman Joseph: From child artist at Doordarshan to technical director at Disney Animations

Joseph, who worked as a child star on Doordarshan before shifting to the US to study computer graphics and animation, said he has been lucky to be able to pursue both his passions -- technology and entertainment.

"It is like life coming to a full circle for me because in India, I worked as a child artiste on Doordarshan for seven years. Later, I got interested in computer science and when I came to study in the US, I got involved with animation. It opened the world for me to know how technology affects animation," he says.

Joseph, a technical director at Disney Animations where has worked for five years, says there is this perception that all the people working on an animation film are animators which is not true.

"When I tell people that I work in animation, they often say, 'Oh, you are an animator' and I am like 'No, that's not the only position but I help the animator animate. I ensure that they can create a visualisation that they have imagined," he says.

Simulation is the magic

Simulation would be something hard to explain to a person unfamiliar with what goes on in creating these characters in animation but Avneet, who was born and studied in India before leaving for the US for further studies, has found a way out.

"I tell people that I make magic happen. I say that I made Elsa (the princess in 'Frozen') look great. That's what I do. The amazing thing is that people get to see our work on screen so it is easy to tell someone that 'Look, I made her move, I made her smile or I made her hair look gorgeous," she says.

How many people it takes to create a successful animation film?

"All in all close to 350 people total but over the period of two years, people often go on other films," says Avneet, who has worked on almost all the big projects to come out of Disney-Pixar's stable in recent times, including fan-favourite "Frozen".

Do Indians think of it as career?

She says when she joined the industry, not many people from India thought of it as a career option but things have changed a lot in the one decade.

"This, as an industry, is still catching up in India but we are seeing more and more people from that part of the world delve into this and take that as a career option. Finding a career that let me use artistry and technology as a form of expression was just amazing," she says.

Animation: Where art meets technology

"The coolest part of making a film at Disney animation is that we are always pushing the limits of what we can visualise. Technology is in complete service to artistry but the demands are always new so there is no rinse and repeat," she added.

"Ralph Breaks the Internet", featuring John C Reilly and Sarah Silverman, released on Friday in India.

Interested in General Knowledge and Current Affairs? Click here to stay informed and know what is happening around the world with our G.K. and Current Affairs section.

To get more updates on Current Affairs, send in your query by mail to education.intoday@gmail.com

====== 108 ========

AIIMS PG 2019: ENTRANCE EXAM RESULTS ANNOUNCED, CHECK THE LIST OF QUALIFIED CANDIDATES

The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi has declared the results of post graduate entrance exam for January 2019 session on its official website.

Candidates who appeared for the exam on November 18, 2018, can visit www.aiimsexams.org to check the list of candidates who are shortlisted for counselling.

How to check the list?

Go to the official website of AIIMS New Delhi

On the homepage, check the heading 'Important Announcements'

Under it, click on 'Result Notification No.-129/2018- Result for the AIIMS PG Entrance Examination for Jan 2019 Session'

You will be directed to a new webpage

Check the document for the result and download the same

AIIMS PG: List of candidates

AIIMS: Entrance exam

The entrance examination was conducted by AIIMS for admission to various MD courses at AIIMS New Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Patna, Jodhpur, Raipur and Rishikesh.

The exam was conducted from 9 am to 12 pm. AIIMS PG exam had one paper in English consisting of 200 objective type questions for MD/MS and 90 objective type questions for MDS.

About AIIMS

The All India Institutes of Medical Sciences are a group of autonomous public medical colleges of higher education. These institutes have been declared by an Act of Parliament as Institutes of National Importance.

Read: AIIMS Jodhpur Recruitment 2018: 103 posts, apply before November 26

Read: Tripura schools to have CBSE syllabus and NCERT textbooks from next session, says State Education Minister

====== 109 ========

DECODED: HOW YOU CAN BENEFIT BY HAVING MULTIPLE CREDIT CARDS

The number of credit card users in India has been rising gradually over the past few years, according to data shared by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). As on January 2018, India had over 3.6 crore credit card users. Two years ago, the same number was pegged at almost 2.7 crore.

Despite a sharp rise in the number of credit card users, people generally refrain from having more than one credit card. In fact, most financial experts also advise first-time credit card users to not opt for too many credit cards.

However, it is not always bad to have two or more credit cards as doing this comes with several benefits. Here are some of them:

More interest-free period: Credit cards have a bad reputation because of the high rate of interest, which keeps on building if repayments are not made on time. All credit cards come with an interest-free periodif a product is purchased using credit card, you have to pay both the principal along with an interest.

ALSO READ | Over 1 lakh ATMs face risk of closure: Here is why you should worry

Most credit cards offer an interest-free window which starts from the first day of the billing cycle and usually lasts 25-30 days (This period varies from one service provider to another).

If your billing cycle starts from the 15th of each month, you get an interest-free period of almost a month. In this case, if the EMI (equated monthly interest) is cleared before the due date, a customer is relieved from paying additional interest.

This is where having two credit cards helps in reducing interest payments. In case you have multiple credit cards, you will be able to get longer interest-free periods, provided the user balances out purchases between two or more cards. Also, having two cards reduces the chances of accumulating higher interests on a single card. Customers will also be able to balance purchases in accordance with interest-free periods offered by the credit service providers. If you have two credit cards, make sure you they have different billing cycles for maximum utilisation.

Flexibility in card usage: A user with more than one credit card can use them cleverly to divide the debt burden between two or more cards, thus pay a lower combined interest. Piling up the entire debt in just one credit card can lead to years of repayment due to constantly rising interest amount. Many card users have shared experiences where they were unable to keep their debt utilisation low while using one card.

ALSO READ | Woman hypnotised, duped of Rs 4,000 in South Delhi

A credit card with higher annual percentage rate (APR)annual rate charged on any purchaseand better rewards offerings can be selected for day-to-day shopping. On the other hand, experts recommend a card with lower APR for long-term credit payments. Hence, the option of flexibility between cards helps users reduce their interest burden.

Helps maintain credit utilisation ratio: Having more than one credit card helps in maintaining healthy credit utilisation. It may be noted that experts have advised credit card users to keep card utilisation at 30 per cent of total available credit limit. If an individual exhausts his/her credit limit, there is a high chance that the accumulated interest would have to be paid for years.

However, dividing purchases between two cards can help in maintaining a low credit utilisation ratio. For instance, if one card is nearing 30 per cent utilisation limit, the user should switch to the other cardthis helps in checking the overall interest rate payment (for both cards) in comparison to higher interest amount on an exhausted card.

Some risks too

While these are some benefits that can be obtained from having more than one credit card, it does not come without risk.

If an individual misuses two cards at the same time, it may lead to a debt trap and a bad credit score, which will make it difficult for an individual to secure future loans. Therefore, individuals should only opt for a second credit card for balancing the credit utilisation ratio and not for overspending.

ALSO WATCH | 2 years on, demonetisation a success or a failure?

====== 110 ========

THESE FIVE INDIAN CITIES OFFER THE BEST JOB OPPORTUNITIES

A new study conducted by a business and employment-oriented networking website has highlighted five Indian cities where individuals earn the highest salaries.

US-based LinkedIn concluded that India's IT hub Bengaluru offers some of the most lucrative pay packages in the country. LinkedIn's study is based on salary data collected over two months.

According to the study's findings, Bengaluru's information and technology sector offers the best job opportunities as far as high salaries are concerned.

Software engineers across sectors earn an average base salary of Rs 12 lakh per annum in Bengaluru. In fact, those engaged in hardware and networking jobs are also paid handsomely in the Garden City.

Bengaluru is followed by India's financial capital Mumbai and Delhi-NCR, both of which pay an average salary of Rs 9 lakh. Hyderabad (Rs 8.5 lakh per annum) and Chennai (Rs 6 lakh) round up the top five Indian cities with the best job opportunities across fields.

Lucrative job options

While Bengaluru stood tall on the list of cities with the highest pay, Linkedin indicated that the fields of hardware, networking, software, and IT services offer the best salary packages in India.

Those in the healthcare, consumer goods and the finance sector can expect higher salaries when compared to other professions.

The Linkedin survey also found that the best designations in the country include director of engineering, chief operating officer, executive director, sales vice president and project managers.

The networking portal is engaged in the process of collecting more job data from its members and is expected to offer better insights in the next two months when it has more data.

Meanwhile, if you are looking forward to changing your job, Bengaluru seems to be the best bet at present.

READ: 5 tips to get back to work after a career break or sabbatical

ALSO WATCH: Is advancing technology putting promising talent out of jobs?

====== 111 ========

OVER 1 LAKH ATMS FACE RISK OF CLOSURE: HERE IS WHY YOU SHOULD WORRY

The ATMs may cease to exist as early as March 2019. (Photo: Reuters)

Increased costs to meet new security norms may force automated teller machine (ATM) operators to close the money-dispensing machines. A non-profit trade association warned on Wednesday (November 21) that nearly 50 per cent of the country's 2.38 lakh ATMs face risk of being shut down due to fresh guidelines issued by the RBI.

The Confederation of ATM industry (CATMi) said at least 1.13 lakh ATMs, including one lakh off-site units and 15,000 white-label ATMs. White-label ATMs are those operated by non-banking financial corporations.

The ATMs may cease to exist as early as March 2019. The industry body said the move will drastically impact "non-urban" areas.

ATM operators worried

CATMi director V Balasubramanian told news agency IANS that the recent regulatory guidelines issued for hardware and software upgrade of ATMs has led to higher costs, and that ATM operators have reached a "tipping point".

Listing reasons that have jolted the ATM industry, Balasubramanian highlighted recent mandates on ATM cash management standards and the cassette-swap method - both of which have been recommended by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).

The Cassette-swapping method will enable operators to quickly replenish exhausted ATMs. The central bank has asked for the integration of lockable cassettes for adding an extra layer of security as well.

Earlier in April, the central bank had asked banks and ATM operators to tighten regulations in order to prevent rising fraudulent activity apart from its larger goal to contain bad loans. However, neither banks nor ATM operators are happy with the RBI's mandate, which is expected to cost them at least Rs 4,800 crore.

CATMi suggested that the new cash logistics and cassette-swap method will alone cost in excess of Rs 3,500 crore.

"To implement all these security, software-hardware directive would entail an additional cost of minimum Rs 1.5 lakh per ATM per month. This works out to astronomical figures for all the 2.38 lakh ATMs in the country," Balasubramanian explained.

The ATM industry, including managed-service providers, brown-label ATM deployers (third-party ATM operators) and white-label ATM operators, is not happy with the fresh move as there is no clarity on whether banks are required to bear the additional cost of meeting guidelines.

"The situation has further deteriorated now due to the additional compliance requirements that call for a huge cost outlay. The service providers do not have the financial means to meet such massive costs and may be forced to shut down these ATMs," said CATMi.

Balasubramanian went on to suggest that there is no possibility of continuing operations if the operators are not compensated by the banks for making the initial investments.

Impact of closing ATMs



While a majority of ATM operators and service providers would be forced to give up their licences, the closure of such high number of ATMs will make life harder for citizens, especially in rural areas where cash use is still widespread.

"This would severely impact millions of beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana [PMJDY] who withdraw subsidies in form of cash through ATMs, besides urban centres, resulting in snaky queues and chaos akin to post-demonetisation," he said.

There are millions of people living in rural areas who predominantly use ATMs for withdrawing cash on a daily basis. In such a scenario, closure of over one lakh ATMs may lead to a situation of panic, as witnessed after demonetisation.

Adding to the woes, 10 per cent of all ATMs in the country are non-operational at any given time due to various reasons such as unavailability of cash or system malfunction. Considering the facts, a further reduction in the number of ATMs in the country would be perilous, especially in remote areas.

Barring urban areas and metro cities, people living in the interiors of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and others have to travel over 40 km or more to access an ATM, according to industry experts.

Lowest ATM penetration

Not just rural areas but the urban populace may also bear the burden of lesser ATMs. According to CATMi, a total of almost 7-10 lakh ATMs are required in the country to adequately cater to the population of the country.

It is worth mentioning that India has the lowest ATM penetration globally, with an average of 8.9 ATMs for one lakh people in comparison to 119.6 in Brazil, 78 in Thailand and 60 in South Africa.

While the RBI has refused to ease its stand, the closure of over 1 lakh ATMs would take a heavy toll on the county's ATM count.

READ | Half of India's ATMs may shut down by March, says report

ALSO WATCH | 2 years on, demonetisation a success or a failure?

====== 112 ========

FACT CHECK: PHOTOSHOPPED IMAGES PIT JATS AGAINST GEHLOT AND RAJE IN RAJASTHAN

Jats are among the prominent castes of Rajasthan and hold the key to the upcoming assembly elections. (File Photo: PTI)

Amid the ongoing slugfests between political rivals in poll-bound Rajasthan, the state is also afflicted by a swarm of viral videos and photos.

In a latest incident, some social media users shared photographs which claimed that Former Rajasthan chief minister and All India Congress Committee general secretary Ashok Gehlot said he will finish off Jats in Rajasthan.

Jats are among the prominent castes of Rajasthan and hold the key to the upcoming assembly elections on December 7.

At a simple glance, these photos look like screenshots of news channels. Interestingly, there are some other posts which make similar allegations against Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje.

India Today Fact Check team found that all these photos are morphed. We did not find any report where Gehlot or Raje spoke about "finishing off the Jat community".



These photos have been shared on several Facebook pages targeting both Raje and Gehlot.

The images appear to be screenshots of news channels such as India News Haryana TV and Times Now.

These posts in general convey political alienation and hatred towards the Jats in Rajasthan, and have messages like "will not allow any Jat CM" or "will finish off the Jats".

Just closer looks at these photos reveal that they are photoshopped. Some of them so poorly, that the photos are popping out of the television screen.

We contacted India News for confirmation. Ajay Shukla, chief editor of India News Haryana, said the logo of his channel in the image is correct but the text has been photoshopped. He claimed that the channel has never aired any such news.

Jats constitute about 15 per cent of the population in Rajasthan, holding a significant place for both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress in elections. Hence, it doesn't make any sense that these senior leaders will give such statements when both the parties are actually trying to woo the caste for votes.

(This Fact Check article is written in collaboration with Ekta News Coalition)

READ | With eyes on 2019, RSS and BJP look beyond caste

ALSO WATCH | Who are Jats and why are they protesting? All your questions answered

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim Viral images claiming Congress leader Ashok Gehlot said he will finish off Jats in Rajasthan. Some other posts make similar allegations against Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. Conclusion India Today Fact Check team found all these pictures to be morphed. We did not find any report where Gehlot or Raje spoke about finishing off the Jat community. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim Viral images claiming Congress leader Ashok Gehlot said he will finish off Jats in Rajasthan. Some other posts make similar allegations against Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. Conclusion India Today Fact Check team found all these pictures to be morphed. We did not find any report where Gehlot or Raje spoke about finishing off the Jat community. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 113 ========

FACT CHECK: LETTER LEAKING CONGRESS'S NEFARIOUS PLANS ON FARM LOAN WAIVER IS FAKE

Just before the final phase of polling in Chhattisgarh that concluded on Tuesday, a purported letter leaking the so-called Congress "plans" created a political commotion in the state.

According to the letter that is doing the rounds on social media, the Congress was planning to dilute the benefits of loan waiver to farmers if it comes to power. The letter is said to be the "leaked internal communication" of the Congress office bearers. However, the letter in circulation contradicts what the Congress has been promising on farm loan waivers at its public rallies.



Farmers' loan waiver remained one of the biggest political issues in the state during elections. Every political party cashed in on the issue to woo voters. According to a PTI report of November 17, Congress president Rahul Gandhi in his election rally in Chhattisgarh's Koriya district promised that "if voted to power in the state, the Congress will waive off farm loans within 10 days and the money will come from the likes of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Anil Ambani". Hence, the viral letter goes completely against the promises made publicly by none other than the Congress chief himself.



India Today Fact Check team found the letter to be fake. There are evidences in the letter that prove so.



The letter was being shared by many on social media even as the polling was about to begin.

When we searched on Facebook keywords related to the content of the letter, we found several reactions over the issue.





The letter mentions six points about the farmers' loan waiver but towards the end of the letter, it says the "following points" should be kept in mind when it should read ''the above points''. Errors like this in official letters of political parties are possible, but rare.



We contacted Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Congress Committee, on whose letter head the letter was written. He claimed that he has not used a letter pad for the last 36 years. He also pointed out many more mistakes in the letter.



Trivedi said the signature at the bottom of the letter is not his. He said the signature matched with the signature of Girish Dewangan, another office bearer of Chhattisgarh Congress. We found this to be true as the signature in the fake letter matched with Dewangan's signature and there was no semblance to Tiwari's signature. Signature of both Tiwari and Dewangan can be seen in this police To start with, we pointed out some glaring mistakes in the letter. First, it is not clear as to whom the letter is addressed. Second, it has been CC'ed to three people but the person to whom it has been addressed is missing.The letter mentions six points about the farmers' loan waiver but towards the end of the letter, it says the "following points" should be kept in mind when it should read ''the above points''. Errors like this in official letters of political parties are possible, but rare.We contacted Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Congress Committee, on whose letter head the letter was written. He claimed that he has not used a letter pad for the last 36 years. He also pointed out many more mistakes in the letter.Trivedi said the signature at the bottom of the letter is not his. He said the signature matched with the signature of Girish Dewangan, another office bearer of Chhattisgarh Congress. We found this to be true as the signature in the fake letter matched with Dewangan's signature and there was no semblance to Tiwari's signature. Signature of both Tiwari and Dewangan can be seen in this police complaint that they made regarding the fake letter.

Tiwari's address on the letter pad is also wrong. The address in the letter mentions "Kharora" village, Raipur". Trivedi told us that his village is not Kharora but Pahanda. Kharora is in fact the village from where Dewangan comes.

The letter also mentions one 'Chhattisgarh Congress Samiti'. However, the correct name of the Chhattisgarh unit of the Congress party is Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee.



Trivedi also holds the post of president of the communication department of Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee. Strangely, the letter has been CC'ed (in writing) to the president of the communication department. That means Trivedi must have marked a copy of the letter to himself. It is unlikely that the head of the communication department of a major political party will do something like this.

The Chhattisgarh Congress has filed a police complaint regarding the fake letter. The complaint alleges that this fake letter is being circulated from a WhatsApp group being operated with phone No. 6261995046. We tried to contact this number repeatedly but it was switched off. The complaint also talks about the role of a Facebook page, 'Bhupesh Baghel for CM'. According to Trivedi, this Facebook page is also fake and has been created to malign the image of Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel. We found that many Facebook pages with similar names have now been deleted.



All these evidences clearly indicate that the letter is fake, and the people behind the letter are trying to cover their tracks.

With inputs from Sunil Namdev

Also read | Fact Check: Photo of Shivraj Singh Chouhan feasting on non-veg food is morphed

Also read | Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi goof-up on paddy price during Chhattisgarh rally?

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim The letter was being claimed as "leaked internal communication" of the Congress office bearers. However, it contradicts to what the Congress party had promised in its public rallies. Conclusion Letter being shared on social media is fake. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim The letter was being claimed as "leaked internal communication" of the Congress office bearers. However, it contradicts to what the Congress party had promised in its public rallies. Conclusion Letter being shared on social media is fake. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 114 ========

FACT CHECK: PHOTO OF SHIVRAJ SINGH CHOUHAN ​FEASTING ON NON-VEG FOOD IS MORPHED

India Today Fact Check team found the photo to be morphed. In the original photo, Chouhan can be seen eating something that does not look like non-vegetarian food.

In the run-up to assembly election in Madhya Pradesh, trolls are keeping the closest watch on all that happens, from the speeches of political leaders to their diets. But they are not right all the time.

Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is the latest victim. Chouhan has been criticised by some netizens for "secretly feasting on non-vegetarian food while publicly claiming to be a staunch Hindu".

These comments are made on the basis of a picture in which Chouhan can be seen having a non-vegetarian meal inside a helicopter.

The picture was shared by Facebook user Ashraf Devgan in a group, 'I support ravish kumar i support truth...'. This public group has more than 80,000 members.

India Today Fact Check team found the photo to be morphed. In the original photo, Chouhan can be seen eating something that does not look like non-vegetarian food.

When we searched on the Internet using keywords, "Shivraj chopper food", we found an article dated November 17, 2018 published on Tribune website.

The photo caption in the article reads: "Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh takes a break for meal inside a chopper during his election for the assembly polls on Saturday." The photo was attributed to Press Trust of India (PTI). We found the original image on the PTI website with the same caption.

Also, in the original photo, a spoon can be seen on the plate. Whereas, in the viral image, which has been badly doctored, a portion of the spoon is still visible.

We also spoke to SK Mishra, principal secretary to the Madhya Pradesh CM, to check if Chouhan is a vegetarian. He told India Today, "Not only is he a pure vegetarian, he even avoids eating at a place where non- vegetarian meal is served."

Also read | Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi goof-up on paddy price during Chhattisgarh rally?

Also read | Fact Check: No, Rahul Gandhi didn’t say he will make Sun rise from the West

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was criticised by netizens for "secretly feasting on non-vegetarian food while publicly claiming to be a staunch Hindu". Conclusion Photo going viral is morphed. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was criticised by netizens for "secretly feasting on non-vegetarian food while publicly claiming to be a staunch Hindu". Conclusion Photo going viral is morphed. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 115 ========

SUSPECTING INFIDELITY, MAN BURNS WIFE WITH HOT IRON ROD, THRASHES HER WITH WOODEN PLANK

The couple has two children and the incident occurred while they were playing outside the house.

A man allegedly thrashed his wife with a wooden plank and then branded her with a hot iron rod in Jajpur district of Odisha suspecting her infidelity, police said Sunday.

The woman, identified as Jhuma Kajual (29), received grievous injuries following the attack on Saturday night, was admitted to the Jajpur Road area hospital in a critical condition, they said.

Later, she was shifted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack after her condition deteriorated, Inspector-in-Charge of Jajpur Road police station, Amitabh Mohapatra said.

ALSO READ | Man calls parents from Punjab to beat his disobedient wife

The accused, identified as Rabi Kajual, 34, a father of two, had fled from the scene soon after committing the offences and he was held later, police said.

Police said, Rabi fell in love with Jhuma, while he was working in a courier company in Bhubaneswar about eight years ago. Later, they got married and then Rabi brought her to his native Sapagadia Padmapur village. The couple has a five-year-old daughter and three-year-old son.

Rabi came home on Saturday night and found her wife talking on her mobile phone. Both entered into an argument as Rabi wanted to know from Juhuma with whom was she talking on mobile phone, they said.

ALSO READ | Newlywed gangraped by 7 men including husband, his relatives in Kurukshetra

"Rabi was angry over his wife talking on phone. He dragged her into a room and bolted the door from inside.

Suspecting her integrity and character, he thrashed Jhuma with a wooden plank injuring her grievously, police said.

Later, the furious husband branded Jhuma with a hot iron rod on her entire body, he said.

The incident occurred while their children were playing outside the house, police said.

ALSO READ | Haryana man's ex abducts his wife and masterminds her gang rape

Jhuma cried out of pain and screamed for help. After hearing her screams, the neighbours rescued her in critical condition and took her local hospital.

Meanwhile, doctors at the Jajpur Road hospital alerted the local police about the incident and on being informed police reached the hospital Saturday night.

Later, the injured woman was shifted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack as her condition deteriorated.

Meanwhile, police have detained the accused and investigation into the incident is on.

ALSO WATCH | 5 ways friends and family can help a sexual assault survivor heal

====== 116 ========

HIT AND RUN: AUTO RICKSHAW KNOCKS DEAD 45-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN MUMBAI

The incident was caught on CCTV. (Photo: A grab from the footage)

A 45-year-old woman was fatally hit by an auto rickshaw in Mumbai's Khar West area on Friday. The auto rickshaw driver came at a high speed when the woman was crossing the street. He then knocked her off the road and fled from the spot.

The woman, identified as Sangeeta Awaramal, was rushed to a nearby hospital by locals, where she succumbed to her injuries.

The incident was caught on CCTV, based on which the police were able to nab the accused.

He was identified as 20-year-old Manoj Kumar, who didn't have a driver's license.

The Khar police have booked Kumar for causing death due to negligence. He will be produced in court on Saturday.

ALSO READ | Caught on CCTV: Chilli powder attack on Kejriwal at Delhi secretariat

ALSO WATCH | Amritsar train accident: Organisers of Ravan effigy burning caught fleeing on camera

====== 117 ========

DRUG ADDICT'S BODY WITH EARS AND EYES MISSING FOUND IN ISOLATED AREA OF DELHI

The man used to go door to door repairing bag zippers (Picture for representation)

A 24-year-old man was found dead in bushes in Pul Prahladpur of southeast Delhi on Friday. His body was found deep in a jungle with its eyes and ears missing, that were suspected to be bitten off by animals, police said.

Police were informed about the man's body around 4.30 pm on Friday. The deceased was identified by his brother as Punit, a resident of Sangam Vihar.

There were bruises on his forehead and a spot near his neck, with the eyes and ears missing, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said.

A small foil (possibly containing drugs), some cash, a small iron chain and some papers were found when the body was searched, police said. During the enquiry, it was revealed that the man was a smack (heroin) addict and used to visit such abandoned places.

Punit used to go door to door repairing bag zippers. His brother and friends revealed that he had been a drug addict for the past three to four years, police said.

With inputs from PTI

READ | 39-year-old businessman commits suicide, body in car found with pistol

ALSO READ | Mumbai Police cracks 9-month-old child's kidnapping in 24 hours

WATCH | Families appeal for release of abducted cops before their bodies were found

====== 118 ========

सीधी बात: अमित शाह बोले- हमारा बस चलता तो अब तक मंदिर बन गया होता

सीधी बात: अमित शाह बोले- हमारा बस चलता तो अब तक मंदिर बन गया होता

सीधी बात में विभिन्न मुद्दों पर अमित शाह ने अपनी बेबाक राय रखी. मध्य प्रदेश, छत्तीसगढ़ और राजस्थान के विधानसभा चुनावों पर उन्होंने कहा कि हम हर चुनाव को गंभीरता से लेते हैं.

Advertisement

श्वेता सिंह [Edited By: वरुण शैलेश] नई दिल्ली, 25 November 2018

सीधी बात में अमित शाह

भारतीय जनता पार्टी (बीजेपी) के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष अमित शाह ने कहा है कि अगर हमारे बस में होता तो अब तक राम मंदिर बन चुका होता. उन्होंने यह बात आजतक के सीधी बात कार्यक्रम में कही. सीधी बात में विभिन्न मुद्दों पर अमित शाह ने अपनी बेबाक राय रखी. मध्य प्रदेश, छत्तीसगढ़ और राजस्थान के विधानसभा चुनावों पर उन्होंने कहा कि हम हर चुनाव को गंभीरता से लेते हैं. चूंकि ये तीनों राज्य संगठनात्मक स्तर पर बहुत अच्छे राज्य हैं. यहां सबसे पहले भारतीय जनसंघ पला बढ़ा है और भारतीय जनता पार्टी भी बड़ी मजबूती से आगे बढ़ी. राजस्थान में 10 और बाकी दो राज्यों में हमारी 15-15 साल सरकार रही है. हम तीनों राज्यों में गंभीरता से चुनाव लड़ रहे हैं.

उन्होंने कहा, 'हम मध्य प्रदेश में अच्छे बहुमत से जीतेंगे. छत्तीसगढ़ में 50-55 सीटे जीतेंगे. इन तीनों राज्यों में एंटी इनकम्बेंसी पर कहा कि सत्ता विरोधी लहर वहां होती है जहां सरकार की योजनाओं से लाभान्वित होने के बजाय नाराज होने वालों की संख्या ज्यादा होती हैं. यहां प्रो-एंटी इन्कम्बेंसी है.

उन्होंने आगे कहा कि राम मंदिर का मुद्दा रणनीतिक नहीं है. ये केस नौ सालों से चल रहा है. हमने कभी नहीं कहा कि केस को टालो. हम सभी चाहते हैं केस सेटल हो जाए. कांग्रेस ने हमेशा मामले को टालने को कहा. हमारा बस चलता तो अब तक केस सेटल हो गया होता. अब तक मंदिर बन गया होता. आदेश नहीं तो अध्यादेश, इस सवाल पर अमित शाह ने कहा कि अभी हम जनवरी की राह देखेंगे.

सीबीआई में कोई दखल नहीं

राजस्थान चुनाव पर उन्होंने कहा कि इसे लेकर हम जरा भी चिंतित नहीं हैं. सीबीआई में विवाद के मुद्दे पर बीजेपी अध्यक्ष ने कहा कि इसमें सरकार ने कोई दखल नहीं दिया है. दो अधिकारियों ने एक-दूसरे पर आरोप लगाए हैं. इसकी जांच के लिए मामले को सीवीसी को भेज दिया है. इसमें सरकार का कोई दखल नहीं है.

आरबीआई अपना काम कर रहा है

इसी तरह केंद्र सरकार और रिजर्व बैंक ऑफ इंडिया के बीच विवाद पर अमित शाह ने कहा कि इस मामले में भी सरकार ने कोई दखल नहीं है. हमारा काम सरकार चलाना है, आरबीआई गवर्नर काम रिजर्व बैंक चलाना है. सरकार ने इसमें को दखल नहीं दिया है. यह लोकतांत्रिक प्रक्रिया है.

बीजेपी में वंशवाद पर ये बोले

अमित शाह ने बीजेपी में वंशवाद की बात से इंकार किया. जब उनसे पूछा गया कि मध्य प्रदेश में 30 ऐसी सीटें हैं जहां नेताओं के रिश्तेदार चुनाव लड़ रहे हैं. इस पर बीजेपी अध्यक्ष ने वंशवाद को परिभाषित करते हुए कहा कि कोई नेता यदि राजनीति छोड़ देता है और अगर उसके परिवार का सदस्य चुनाव लड़ता है तो वह वंशवाद नहीं होता है.

अमित शाह ने राफेल सौदे पर कहा कि इसमें एक फूटी कौड़ी का घोटाला नहीं हुआ है. कांग्रेस बड़ी चालाकी से इस मामले को उछाल रही है. सवाल है कि आपके (राहुल गांधी) पास सूचनाएं कहां से आती हैं. आपकी सूचनाएं कितनी अहम हैं. 36 के 36 विमान फ्रांस से बनकर आने थे. राफेल की तत्काल जरूरत है. सारे विमान फ्रांस से आने हैं. कांग्रेस ने जबरन इस मामले को उछाला है.

====== 119 ========

BIGG BOSS: ये कंटेस्टेंट हुईं घर से बाहर, जानिए कौन-कौन हुआ सेफ

Bigg Boss: ये कंटेस्टेंट हुईं घर से बाहर, जानिए कौन-कौन हुआ सेफ

aajtak.in [Edited By:महेन्द्र गुप्ता]

25 November 2018

1 / 8 बिग बॉस के घर में इस हफ्ते एक कंटेस्टेंट फिर बाहर हो गया. सलमान ने वीकेंड के वार में इसकी घोषणा की. इस हफ्ते करणवीर, सृष्ट‍ि, मेघा, रोहित और दीपिका नॉमिनेट थे. जबकि जसलीन, दीपक और करणवीर शनिवार को सेफ हो गए थे. आखिरकार, शो से सृष्टि रोडे को बाहर होना पड़ा. सृष्टि छोटी बहू, चलती का नाम गाड़ी, इश्कबाज और पुनर्विवाह जैसे शोज में काम कर चुकी हैं.



2 / 8 पिछले सीजन में शो का हिस्सा रह चुके विकास गुप्ता ने ट्वीट करके सृष्टि का घर से बेघर होने पर स्वागत किया. विकास ने लिखा- आई लव यू सृष्टि, मुझे बहुत खुशी है कि तुम इस शो में आईं.

3 / 8 इस बार वीकेंड का वार में शिरकत करने पहुंची थीं नागिन 3 की दो नागिन यानी सुरभि ज्योति और अनीता हसनंदानी. इसके अलावा बिग बॉस की एक्स कंटेस्टेंट काम्या पंजाबी भी पहुंचीं.



4 / 8 सुरभि ज्योति और अनीता हसनंदानी हाथ में जयमाला लेकर सलमान के स्वयंवर में पहुंचती हैं. शो का प्रोमो सोशल मीडिया पर शेयर करके कलर्स टीवी ने यह जानकारी दर्शकों के साथ शेयर की है. दिखाया गया कि बिग बॉस के घर में सलमान के स्वयंवर के लिए पहुंची दोनों नागिन अपनी-अपनी तारीफ करती हैं.





5 / 8 अपनी तारीफ में सुरभि ज्योति कहती हैं कि वह बहुत अच्छा रेंगती हैं. वहीं, अनीता हसनंदानी सलमान को इंप्रेस करने के लिए कहती हैं कि उनके पास जहर और कहर दोनों हैं.



6 / 8 इस दौरान सलमान उनसे उनकी उम्र पूछते हैं तो सुरभि अपनी उम्र 1000 साल और अनीता 780 साल बताती हैं. सलमान दोनों नागिनों के साथ मैं नागिन-नागिन, नागिन-नागिन गाने पर डांस करते भी दिखेंगे.



7 / 8 डांस के बाद सलमान कहते हैं कि दो-दो नागिनें उनकी गर्लफ्रेंड बनना चाहती हैं. ऐसे में वह दुनिया के सबसे खुशनसीब आदमी हैं.



====== 120 ========

क्रुणाल पंड्या का कमाल, ऑस्ट्रेलिया में बनाया यह विराट रिकॉर्ड

क्रुणाल का यह प्रदर्शन ऑस्ट्रेलिया में किसी भी स्पिन गेंदबाज द्वारा टी-20 इंटरनेशनल मैच में सर्वश्रेष्ठ है. उन्होंने ऑस्ट्रेलिया में खेले गए टी-20 इंटरनेशनल मैच में एक स्पिन गेंदबाज के रूप में सबसे अधिक विकेट हासिल किए हैं. इस लिस्ट में उन्होंने ग्लेन मैक्सवेल को पछाड़ा है. ग्लेन ने तीन विकेट हासिल किए थे.



====== 121 ========

पठानकोट में 6 संदिग्ध गिरफ्तार, बड़ी वारदात को देने वाले थे अंजाम

पठानकोट में 6 संदिग्ध गिरफ्तार, बड़ी वारदात को देने वाले थे अंजाम

जम्मू-कश्मीर पुलिस ने जम्मूतवी पूजा एक्सप्रेस ट्रेन को रुकवाकर 6 संदिग्धों को हिरासत में लिया है. इससे पहले दिल्ली पुलिस स्पेशल सेल ने इस्लामिक स्टेट ऑफ जम्मू एंड कश्मीर (ISJK) के तीन आतंकियों को गिरफ्तार करने में कामयाबी हासिल की. अमृतसर धमाके के बाद ये गिरफ्तारियां सामने आई हैं.

Advertisement

सतेंदर चौहान [Edited By: राम कृष्ण] पठानकोट, 25 November 2018

फाइल फोटो- aajtak.in

जम्मू-कश्मीर पुलिस ने पंजाब के पठानकोट रेलवे स्टेशन पर जम्मूतवी पूजा एक्सप्रेस से 6 संदिग्धों को गिरफ्तार किया है. इनको ट्रेन रुकवाकर हिरासत में लिया गया है. यह ट्रेन जम्मू से दिल्ली आ रही थी. आशंका जताई जा रही है कि ये संदिग्ध किसी बड़ी वारदात को अंजाम देने की तैयारी में थे. अमृतसर के निरंकारी भवन पर हमले के बाद इन संदिग्धों की गिरफ्तारी सामने आई है. इसके अलावा दिल्ली पुलिस स्पेशल सेल ने इस्लामिक स्टेट ऑफ जम्मू एंड कश्मीर (ISJK) के तीन आतंकियों को गिरफ्तार करने में भी कामयाबी हासिल की है. इन संदिग्ध आतंकियों के पास से हथियार, ग्रेनेड और विस्फोटक भी बरामद हुए हैं. गिरफ्तार किए गए ये तीनों संदिग्ध जम्मू-कश्मीर के रहने वाले हैं.

गिरफ्तार किए गए संदिग्धों की पहचान जम्मू कश्मीर के त्राल निवासी ताहिर अली खान, बडगाम निवासी हरीश मुश्ताक खान और रैनावाड़ी निवासी आसिफ सुहैल नडाफ के रूप में हुई है. ताहिर अली खान के पिता का नाम अली मोहम्मद, हरीश मुश्ताक खान के पिता का नाम मुश्ताक अहमद और आसिफ सुहैल नदाफ के पिता का नाम लतीफ बताया जा रहा है.

इससे पहले अमृतसर के निरंकारी भवन में हुए हमले में दो संदिग्ध आतंकियों को गिरफ्तार किया गया था, जिनकी पहचान विक्रमजीत सिंह और अवतार सिंह के रूप में हुई है. अवतार सिंह ने ही निरंकारी भवन में सत्संग कर रहे अनुयायियों पर ग्रेनेड फेंका था, जबकि विक्रमजीत सिंह भवन के बाहर मोटरसाइकिल पर इंतजार कर रहा था और उसने गेट पर खड़े दो लोगों को बंदूक की नोक पर ले रखा था, ताकि वे शोर न मचा सकें.

विक्रमजीत सिंह पंजाब का स्थानीय निवासी है. उसने पाकिस्तान में बैठे आतंकियों की मदद से इस हमले को अंजाम दिया था. इस हमले में तीन लोगों की मौत हो गई थी, जबकि 20 लोग घायल हो गए थे. यह ग्रेनेड हमला अमृतसर से करीब 15 किलोमीटर दूर स्थित आदिलवाल गांव में निरंकारी पंथ के सत्संग भवन में हुआ था.

यह हमला उस वक्त हुआ था जब लोग प्रार्थना के लिए एकत्र हुए थे. वहां करीब 200 लोग मौजूद थे. देश-विदेश में निरंकारी अनुयायियों की संख्या लाखों में है. इसका मुख्यालय दिल्ली में है. इस हमले के लिए पैसा और ग्रेनेड पाकिस्तान में बैठे खालिस्तानी आतंकी हरमीत सिंह उर्फ पीएचडी ने मुहैया करवाया था.

पटियाला से कुछ दिन पहले पकड़े गए खालिस्तान गदर फोर्स के आतंकी शबनम दीप सिंह ने इसके लिए स्लीपर सेल के माध्यम से इन दो लड़कों को बरगला कर अपने साथ जोड़ा था. शबनम दीप सिंह ने गरीब लड़कों को खालिस्तान के नाम पर बरगला कर उनको चंद हजार रुपये देकर हैंड ग्रेनेड फेंकने के लिए तैयार किया था. उन्हें ट्रेनिंग भी दी गई थी.

====== 122 ========

1 जनवरी से ये ATM-क्रेडिट कार्ड हो जाएंगे बेकार, जांच लें अपना

1 जनवरी से ये ATM-क्रेडिट कार्ड हो जाएंगे बेकार, जांच लें अपना

aajtak.in [Edited By: अमित दुबे]

25 November 2018

1 / 10 अगर आपके पास भी एटीएम (डेबिट) और क्रेडिट कार्ड है तो ये खबर आपके लिए बेहद महत्वपूर्ण है. आरबीआई की गाइडलाइंस के मुताबिक 1 जनवरी से मैग्‍नेटिक स्ट्रिप वाला कार्ड काम करना बंद कर देगा, यानी 1 जनवरी से मैग्‍नेटिक स्ट्रिप वाला डेबिट और क्रेडिट कार्ड बेकार हो जाएंगे.



2 / 10 दरअसल 1 जनवरी 2019 से पब्लिक और प्राइवेट सेक्टर बैंक के सभी मैग्नेटिक स्ट्रिप वाले कार्ड अमान्य हो जाएंगे. इस वक्त देश में दो तरह के एटीएम इस्तेमाल में हैं. मैग्नेटिक स्ट्राइप वाला और चिप कार्ड वाला. लेकिन मैग्नेटिक स्ट्राइप कार्ड को सुरक्षा के लिहाज से सही नहीं माना जा रहा है और यही बंद हो जाएगा.



3 / 10 आरबीआई के नियम के मुताबिक मैग्नेटिक स्ट्राइप कार्ड को चिप वाले कार्ड से रिप्‍लेस कर दिया जाएगा. RBI ने यह कदम ग्राहकों के एटीएम-डेबिट और क्रेडिट कार्ड की डिटेल्‍स सुरक्षित रखने के लिए उठाया है.



4 / 10 जानकारों की मानें तो मैग्‍नेटिक स्ट्रिप वाले कार्ड से डेटा चोरी होने का खतरा बना रहता है. सुरक्षा के मद्देनजर आरबीआई ने मैग्‍नेटिक स्ट्रिप वाले कार्डों को ईवीएम वाले चिप कार्ड से बदलने के लिए 31 दिसंबर, 2018 तक का वक्त दिया है. RBI का कहना है कि ईवीएम कार्ड से फर्जीवाड़ा होने का खतरा बेहद कम हो जाएगा.



5 / 10 क्या है दोनों कार्ड्स में अंतर?

मैग्‍नेटिक स्ट्रिप कार्ड से ट्रांजैक्‍शन के लिए उपभोक्ता के सिग्‍नेचर या पिन की जरूरत होती है. क्योंकि इसपर ग्राहक के अकांउट की डिटेल्‍स मौजूद होती है. इसी स्ट्रिप की मदद से कार्ड स्‍वाइप के वक्‍त मशीन आपके बैंक इंटरफेस से जुड़ती है और प्रोसेस आगे बढ़ता है.

6 / 10 वहीं चिप वाले कार्ड में सारी जानकारियां चिप में मौजूद होती हैं, इनमें भी ट्रांजैक्‍शन के लिए पिन और सिग्‍नेचर जरूरी होते हैं. लेकिन ईएमवी चिप कार्ड में ट्रांजैक्‍शन के वक्‍त यूजर को वेरीफाई करने के लिए एक यूनीक ट्रांजैक्‍शन कोड जनरेट होता है, जो सुरक्षा के लिहाज से बेहतर है.



7 / 10 दरअसल आरबीआई ने 27 अगस्त, 2015 को एक दिशा-निर्देश जारी किया था, और उस वक्त बैंकों को कार्ड बदलने की पूरी प्रक्रिया के लिए 3 साल से अधिक का वक्त दिया था. आरबीआई ने अपने आदेश में कहा था, 'एक सितंबर 2015 से बैंक द्वारा जितने भी नए कार्ड (डेबिट और क्रेडिट, डोमेस्टिक और इंटरनेशनल) जारी किए जाएंगे वे सभी ईएमवी चिप आधारित कार्ड होंगे.' हालांकि कई बैंक उसी समय से ग्राहकों के कार्ड बदलने में लगे हैं और लगातार अपने ग्राहकों को मैसेज कर कार्ड बदलने की सलाह दे रहे हैं.



8 / 10 ईएमवी के बारे में

दरअसल चिप वाले डेबिट और क्रेडिट कार्ड को सुरक्षा के लिहाज से बेहतर माना जाता है. ईएमवी (यूरो पे, मास्टर कार्ड और वीजा) में एक छोटा-सा माइक्रोचिप होता है, जो खरीदारों की जाली ट्रांजैक्शन से बचाता करता है.



9 / 10 आप अपने क्रेडिट या डेबिट कार्ड पर इस चिप को देख सकते हैं, सुनहरे रंग का ये चिप कार्ड के अक्सर बाईं तरफ होता है. अगर आपके कार्ड पर ये चिप नहीं है तो आप बैंक से जल्द संपर्क करें. ईएमवी चिप और पिन (पर्सनल आइडेंटिफिकेशन नंबर) कार्ड की डिजाइन सुरक्षा को ध्यान में रखकर किया जाता है, इसका क्लोन बनाना बेहद मुश्किल है.



====== 123 ========

AASIA BIBI RELEASED, OPENING OF KARTARPUR CORRIDOR: THIS IS HOW IMRAN KHAN'S NAYA PAKISTAN LOOKS LIKE

Aasia bibi is released.

And Khadim Hussain Rizvi is arrested.

This is the Pakistan I never thought I’d see in my lifetime. This is the Pakistan of which Imran Khan is the prime minister. The politician who was labelled a fundamentalist, Khan is walking the talk. He is doing what is right, the way forward, to be the change that he promised he would be, doing his best to make Pakistan the country that is not just prosperous and peaceful but also respects the law, is fair and does not practise appeasement of extremism.

A Pakistan never seen before: Aasia bibi is released and Khadim Hussain Rizvi is arrested.

The October 31 Supreme Court verdict to release the poor Christian woman Aasia bibi, a death sentence prisoner, based on a thorough legal review of her case, unleashed a reaction that was expected yet very ugly, with all the makings of a nation-wide anarchic situation if not controlled in time. The few-day protests that erupted in many areas of Pakistan were orchestrated on the call of Khadim Hussain Rizvi, the leader of the religious organisation Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP).

In what was said to be governmental capitulation to an extremist group that threatened to hold Pakistan hostage if its demand to revoke the Aasia bibi verdict was not met, an agreement was signed between the government and Rizvi’s organisation. Protests ended but the threat of more protests loomed constant and ominous in the non-fulfilment of his demands related to Aasia bibi case: court review of the verdict and placement of Aasia bibi on the Exit Control List.

On November 23, after arrests of many members of TLP, the news of Rizvi’s arrest was made public. Pakistan, mostly, lauded the action of the Punjab police that took place on the order of the Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar. In Punjab, Khan’s party Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf is in power, and Buzdar is the little-known, unassuming and low-key PTI politician suddenly catapulted into the most important position in the biggest province of Pakistan. Buzdar with the silent yet firm crackdown on TLP showed that actions speak louder than words.

Much is to be done, much is being done: The Chinese consulate in Karachi was attacked. (Photo: Reuters)

On a day that was marked by the horrific tragedy of the killing of 32 plus people in a blast in the Orakzai district, and four people, including two police officials, in a terrorist attack on the Chinese Consulate in Karachi, the news of Rizvi’s arrest came as a reminder that things despite being awful are changing in the Khan-governed Pakistan. As the nation paid tributes to the people martyred in the two attacks, there was also the non-stop appreciation of the operation in Karachi led by the very courageous ASP Suhai Aziz Talpur of the Sindh police.

Much is to be done, much is being done. That is how a country facing a huge economic crisis and many other issues must be prepared to function — steadily, without stopping. Pakistan does not have any time to waste as every day is a new challenge, and each challenge must be dealt with in the best way possible. As Pakistan mourns its martyrs and salutes its heroes, the realistic assessment of the what and why must never be lost focus of. A thorough investigation of the two terror attacks of varying intensity in two different parts of Pakistan is needed to prevent the same kind of destruction in future. The number of acts of terrorism due to the collaborative efforts of government, army, law enforcement and intelligence agencies has been substantially reduced, and whereas it can be said that terrorism cannot be completely eliminated, no effort must be spared to fight it on all levels.

Prime Minister Khan tweeted: “I am absolutely clear both these attacks are part of a planned campaign to create unrest in the country by those who do not want Pakistan to prosper. Let there be no doubt in anyone’s mind that we will crush the terrorists, whatever it takes.”

I am absolutely clear both these attacks are part of a planned campaign to create unrest in the country by those who do not want Pakistan to prosper. Let there be no doubt in anyone's mind that we will crush the terrorists, whatever it takes. https://t.co/AhPpjsUGEq — Imran Khan (@ImranKhanPTI) November 23, 2018

In the backdrop of a geopolitical history that is marked with much that is negative, Pakistan takes another positive step. Khan’s government is going ahead with India’s agreement to Pakistan’s offer to open the Kartarpur corridor for the easy passage of Sikh pilgrims for the 550th birth anniversary in 2019 of the Shri Guru Nanak Devji.

Khan is committed to have a peaceful and bilaterally beneficial relationship with China. (Photo: India Today/Youtube)

Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on behalf of Khan’s government has extended an invitation to India’s external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to attend the groundbreaking ceremony at Kartarpur on November 28. Minister Swaraj while RSVP’ing her regrets citing her earlier commitment on the day of the event accepted the invitation on India’s behalf. Mrs Harsimat Kaur Badal and former ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri will represent India.

I thank HE Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi Foreign Minister of Pakistan for inviting me to attend the groundbreaking ceremony of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor on the Pakistan side of the International boundary on 28 November 2018. /1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) November 24, 2018

Since I am unable to travel to Kartarpur Sahib on the scheduled date, Government of India will be represented by my esteemed colleagues Mrs.Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Mr.H.S.Puri. /2 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) November 24, 2018

We hope that the Government of Pakistan will expedite construction of the corridor in order to ensure that our citizens can pay their respects at the Gurudwara Kartarpur Sahib using the corridor as soon as possible. /3 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) November 24, 2018

After three months of his swearing-in, amidst relentless antagonism from political parties in opposition and biased media reportage, what is clear is the agenda of Imran Khan’s government: formation of a Pakistan that is future-focused, self-reliant, progressive, peaceful, corruption-free, and fair and good to its people. There are errors, there are bad decisions, there are some inefficient people on positions of importance, and there are some slips of tongue or careless utterances. What is also there: constant and strict course correction. The government is new, it is untested, it has five years to prove itself, and it has a new test every day. What makes it different beyond that: it is Imran Khan’s government.

What makes him different: There is no political dynasty that Khan has to protect or leave his chair for. (Photo: Reuters)

What makes Khan different from most previous rulers of Pakistan — civilian prime ministers and military dictators — is that despite appearing to be self-centred and a follower of me-myself-and-I school of thought, Khan is anything but that. At 66, in his first term as the prime minister of Pakistan that he owes his everything to, he is determined to make it into a country that he along with his 200 million compatriots would be proud to call their homeland.

Security of life, quality healthcare, solid education, effective law and order, a fair and impartial legal and judicial system that is for all, affordable housing for the underprivileged, employment opportunities, conducive environment for business, enhanced tourism, and mutually beneficial bilateral relations with countries in the region and outside is inclusive in Khan’s vision of a model social welfare state of 2018 based on the principles of the 7th century Medina. Some of Khan’s ideas might not be new; what is new is they will turn into reality with him as the prime minister.

There is no political dynasty that Khan has to protect or leave his chair for; there are no financial stakes in any business within and outside Pakistan; there is no unaccounted wealth spread around the world in palatial houses, unknown companies and untraceable accounts. What Khan is and what Khan has is all about Pakistan, and is in Pakistan. And that is what makes the flawed, human and very real Khan the one-of-a-kind leader. The kind of leader Pakistan needs today and tomorrow. The leader that is trusted by his own people, and is respected by people and leaders of other countries. The leader with whom the 92-year-old Malaysian First Lady has her adorable admiration moment; the very lovely Ma’am Siti Hasmah Mohamad Ali, accompanied by her husband Prime Minister Dr Mahathir Mohamad, was beaming as Khan shyly laughed and held her hand on her request.

Mrs Mahathir, Dr Siti Hasmah Mohamad Ali, has a fan girl moment. Asks the visiting @ImranKhanPTI if he can hold her hand. #Pakistan PM gracefully says: Sure pic.twitter.com/2n0QzHmBX0 — Sadiq ‘Sameer’ Bhat (@sadiquiz) November 21, 2018

Why I believe in Khan to do the right thing is based on my idealism for humanity and Pakistan, and that is what I see in Prime Minister Khan. While I, as a stay-at-home writer, am not in a material position to do much for people, Khan as the prime minister of the country is, and that is what I see him doing every day. Moved by the photo of a poor man and his three children sleeping on a road, Khan instructed the building of shelters for the homeless and the needy. On November 24, he tweeted: “I have asked CM Punjab to set up tents for people sleeping on footpaths and provide them food until the Panah Gahs (shelters) are built, as the weather is turning increasingly cold. Peshawar and Karachi spots also being located.”

Tents being setup in Lahore today as temporary Panah Gahs (shelters) for the homeless sleeping on the footpaths of the provincial capital. pic.twitter.com/psrsOnVfNG — Imran Khan (@ImranKhanPTI) November 24, 2018

It may be trivial for many, for me it is huge. I don’t usually see this empathy, this concern, this humanity and this pain for the poor in the words, tweets and actions of many heads of state. He who notices the pain of one family sleeping on the road is my hero. And I’m happy and grateful that he is the prime minister of the Pakistan I love and call home.

Thank you, Prime Minister, Imran Khan.

Also Read: What is the truth behind Imran Khan's alleged U-turns?

====== 124 ========

WHY THE BUILD-UP IN AYODHYA TODAY IS NOT A CELEBRATION OF FAITH

One part of freedom of religion stems from free speech — the right to express, proclaim, celebrate and even propagate your faith in any way within the requirements of the public order, health and morality.

The second part is that the state shall remain neutral, without siding with any faith, but celebrating all, which I have elsewhere called ‘celebratory neutrality’.

India’s secularism is supposed to draw people together to live in peace and harmony while retaining their personal and religious identity. But in India, the living contradiction is that while the Constitution’s secular agenda is meant to apply to the state and public governance, its civil society is not secular, but deeply divided. This divides India.

Given elections, the phantom menace of communalism abandons tolerance for political glory.

The present build-up in Ayodhya is massive: 1 lakh RSS, 1 lakh VHP, 500 sainiks. (Photo: PTI)

Instilling fear

The build-up in Ayodhya has strange antecedents.

In the nineteenth century, the ‘chabutra’ was an act of trespass. The Nirmohi Akhara’s predecessor fought a civil case claiming title in 1885, but the Muslim claim to property was upheld, conceding prayer to Hindus.

With the rise of the Hindu Mahasabha in 1934, the mosque was damaged and later repaired.

In 1949, another trespass was paraded as a miracle. Opportunist officer Nayyar simply refused to obey orders from Centre and state.

The ‘great’ Babri-Janmabhumi case began.

The ‘lock’ incident of 1987 showed communal partiality across the political spectrum.

Finally, the Babri Masjid was smashed on December 6, 1992 following rath yatras by Advani and Joshi, supported by the aspiring Modi.

This was followed by Gujarat in 2002. There have been cow campaigns, ghar wapsi, murders, communal riots. Every Indian of any variety needs to ask: How can India survive this to create a society in which there is no freedom from fear from the state, political parties and civil society. All courtesy the British taxpayers.

Amazing, no?

One question immediately comes to mind: what about India?

The present build-up in Ayodhya is massive: 1 lakh RSS, 1 lakh VHP, 500 sainiks.

What is expected is an untidy pageant of 14,000 bikers, Jeeps, SUVs, buses and trains.

From Varanasi 1,322 buses and 1,546 four-wheelers reportedly carried 80,000 persons.

BJP MLA Surendra Singh has warned that as in 1992, the ‘crowd’ could take the law into its own hands. BJP Ravindra Khushwaha says a Bill for temple construction will be placed in Parliament on December 11, 2018.

How can Shiv Sena hijack the #RamMandir issue? The people who thrash north Indians and drive them out, who don’t even have the mentality to serve humanity, how will they serve lord Ram? : BJP MLA Surendra Singh pic.twitter.com/0eWDqUbm4k — ANI (@ANI) November 25, 2018

The government cannot table or support such a Bill since it is the Supreme Court appointed statutory receiver.

The Shiv Sena says: “Pehle mandir phir sarkar”.

The state government, headed by then-CM Kalyan Singh, could not protect the government. In the present assertions in 2018, the state has now organised seven paramilitary, police and 20 companies of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), and two RAF Companies. The town will be as in a state of siege, divided into eight zones and 16 sections, with barricades.

Visuals from Ayodhya. VHP and Shiv Sena are organising separate events in the city today over the matter of #RamTemple. pic.twitter.com/kKKFBhaTR0 — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) November 25, 2018

Motivated coercion

Is this free speech and the exercise of freedom of religion?

As an unforgiving defender of free speech and plural diversity, I would support non-violent demonstrations of any kind.

Free speech includes strong speech. But this build-up is more than that. It is not a celebration of faith, but coercive and intimidatory.

The British answer lay in the ‘law or order’ state to prevent such demonstrations, ban, censor and separate and leave it at that.

But the voice of secular togetherness is not just the concern of a fractured civil society.

Ayodhya and Sabarimala have set up challenges for India’s secularism. (Photo: Reuters)

It also lies with the state and state agencies to promote to secular peace and harmony. This is a positive obligation correctly entrenched by Bommai’s case (1993). In our present case, the voice of Modi, Adityanath and politicians must, in the first place, refrain from religiously supporting this religious build up.

In the second, they must make it clear that they defend the rights of minorities. In one sense, they could use this neutrality politically. But thirdly, the positive obligations of secularism require positive assertions other than providing police, army and barricades. But CM Adityanath has gone well beyond his negative and positive obligations in changing names of towns like Allahabad and spending huge state money on the Kumbh mela — not just for safety but to advance the majoritarian faith of Hindus.

The challenges

Ayodhya and Sabarimala have set up challenges for India’s secularism.

So far, the independent India has nationalised temples instead of leaving them in community hands, subject to temple entry for untouchables.

The state’s duty should end in ensuring financial and health probity.

This is what Justice Dipak Misra (as he then was) did in the Kalka temple case.

It cannot and should not pronounce on issues of faith — not even the Supreme Court. We cannot totally go the way of French laïcité to prohibit any public expressions of faith, other than its concordat with church.

The distinction between public and private religion endowments needs to be reworked.

In India, it is not feasible or desirable to ban religions being celebrated publicly which, with secular sensitivity, other communities join in. But enjoying public space is one thing and using it to intimidate, coerce and embarrass others is contrary to bring the nation together. All this needs a rethink.

Ayodhya’s controversies are sadly too one-sided. I feel that if Lord Ram had a say he would say: “Don’t build a temple for me. Just look after all people irrespective of their faith. That is the message of Ram Rajya.”

(Courtesy of Mail Today)

Also Read: Ram Mandir, Sabarimala, Nehru Museum: How the war is now between 'my saffron' and 'your saffron'

====== 125 ========

DELHI’S KWALITY RESTAURANT: OLD FAVOURITE GETS A NEW AVATAR

Some days ago, I was a part of a discussion chaired by television commentator Advaita Kala at the India Foundation on the soft power of Indian cuisines, and why it hadn’t got its due globally.

It made me wonder whether we, as a society, have given our rich culinary traditions the pride of place it deserves. We have so much to offer — at so many different levels of the hierarchy of taste — that I think sometimes, we ourselves are overwhelmed by what we have on our plate.

Third-generation restaurateur Divij Lamba with his mother Timma at the new-look Kwality. (Photo: Mail Today)

And the world hasn’t even scratched the surface, although the most discerning dining-out market, London — thanks to a new crop of restaurants such as Asma Khan’s Darjeeling Express, Karam Sethi’s Gymkhana, and Shamil Thakrar’s Dishoom — has started getting the drift of our country’s gastronomic diversity beyond chicken tikka masala and pork vindaloo. This builds on the exposure going back to the late 1990s and early 2000s with the advent of trailblazing chefs such as Vineet Bhatia, Sriram Ayalur, Vivek Singh and Atul Kochhar, and the restaurateur sisters Camellia and Namrata Panjabi.

The other day, I was at the Kwality restaurant in Connaught Place, which, after a refurbishment exercise that lasted for seven months, is ready to re-open on November 26, in a contemporary avatar oozing classical New York chic.

Kwality has been around since 1940, set up by the late Pishori Lal Lamba and Iqbal Ghei, when Connaught Place used to be the hang-out of the British Raj elite and American GIs barracked for action in what was then called the CBI (ChinaBurma-India) sector.

From Chhole Bhature to Chicken A'La Kiev, Kwality well reflects the range of Indian cuisine. (Photo: Twitter)

If the restaurant was known before Independence as the place to get hand-cranked ice-cream and burgers, it established itself in my parents’ generation — with PL Lamba’s son, Sunil Lamba, at the helm — as the go-to destination for the iconic bhatura, bloated like a festive balloon, with smooth-as-silk pindi chana, Anglo-Bengali delicacies such as tomato fish, and exotic desserts such as the Sicilian cassata and tutti-frutti ice-cream.

You can take this journey through time on the walls of the new-look Kwality, which is studded with archival photographs of New Delhi before the megalopolis lost its innocence, sourced from the Mahattas, another Connaught Place institution.

When one talks about the soft power of Indian gastronomy, you cannot ignore institutions such as Kwality — the very fact that it has been around since 1940 is by itself the biggest award that it can ever get: the people’s trust award. The restaurant has also been showcasing the evolution of cosmopolitan Indian Cuisine — a process that’s been given a push by Sunil Lamba’s younger son Divij, who, incidentally, was a Hillary Clinton staffer during her days as US Senator when he was studying at Yale.

Kwality has been around since 1940, when Connaught Place was the hang-out of the British Raj elite and American GIs. (Photo: Reuters)

You cannot pin down Kwality’s signature dishes to one geographical region — a sign of the eclectic taste buds of the Indian elite — so you have the egg yolk-washed Kashmiri chicken kebab (nothing Kashmiri about this post-partition Pandara Road restaurant dish) vying for your attention with the plump Chicken a la Kiev (a meal for two, though I wish there was a little more potato mash), or the succulent seekh kebabs and the un-putdownable tandoori chicken with Lakhnavi fish musallam and the juicy chicken ‘chops’ (an Anglo-Indian heritage, and perfect accompaniments to high tea).

For the world visiting the country at this time of the year, Kwality is the first introduction to cosmopolitan Indian Cuisine. And that is just one avatar of India’s culinary soft power.

(Courtesy of Mail Today)

Also read: How a spoonful of turmeric helps the bitterness go away

====== 126 ========

AMOL PALEKAR: THE ‘PLAIN-LOOKING’ ACTOR WHO REDEFINED THE IMAGE OF THE BOLLYWOOD ‘HERO’

In the year 1974, the film Rajnigandha hit the silver screen. It created waves, despite being a simple and straightforward film based on Mannu Bhandari’s story ‘Yahi Sach Hai’. The movie brought in a breath of fresh air amid the era of the “angry young man”, which was at its peak after Amitabh Bachchan in Zanjeer. Also, superstar Rajesh Khanna’s magic was still working.

The shy, unassuming hero Palekar would come to embody first appeared in Rajnigandha. (Photo: YouTube screengrab)

It was at this juncture that Amol Palekar, “the boy next door”, landed into the film industry as the ordinary-looking, unassertive, shy and modest lead of Rajnigandha, which had Vidya Sinha, a new heroine, opposite him. The film did very well and the audience accepted this hero — who was actually an antithesis of the typical Hindi film hero — warmly.

It was indeed a refreshing change for people to watch on screen this common man (characters given to him were mostly middle class, ordinary people, with whom the audience could easily identify). After Rajnigandha, Palekar enjoyed hits like Chhoti Si Baat and Chitchor (both were released in the year 1976). They were extremely entertaining films, and once again showed Palekar as the common man who struggles with day-to-day problems.

In Chhoti Si Baat, he plays an accountant (Arun) who works in Bombay and is unable to impress the girl he loves (again Vidya Sinha). How he learns to become confident and suave from Ashok Kumar (Col Julius Nagendranath Wilfred Singh) is the focus of this film, which has many a memorable scene between Palekar and the veteran Kumar.

The confidence that Palekar showed in playing his roles right from his first film owes a lot to his theatre background. He had started doing theatre in the late 1960s, after having studied painting at the JJ School of Arts in Bombay. Though the characters he played were often unsure of themselves and quite bashful at times, the actor himself was far from that!

In the film Chitchor, he excelled as the overseer (Vinod) who is mistaken by the heroine’s parents to be the engineer who was to arrive in the village to meet them, and consider marriage with their daughter Geeta. The village girl turns out to be bolder than the “hero”, and insists that she will marry him and not the engineer, where he was perfectly ready to be the sacrificial lamb.

When Palekar made his debut, Bachchan's angry young man and the magical Rajesh Khanna were ruling the screens. (Photos: YouTube)

An innate simplicity and goodness in Amol Palekar’s personality helped him greatly in doing justice to these characters. His sense of comic timing was evident in his films Gol Maal (1979) and Naram Garam (1981), in which we see him mostly creating humour with a straight face. His way of executing comic roles was extremely subtle, and his chemistry with Utpal Dutt, one of the finest actors we have ever had, made these films classics, which are enjoyed by every new generation.

In Baaton Baaton Mein (1979), Palekar played with ease a Bandra-based Christian boy named Tony Braganza, who shied away from committing to marriage to the girl he loved (Tina Munim). Being a Bombay boy, this role did not need much homework.

Palekar loved to break set patterns, and he did this again by playing a villain-ish character in Bhumika (1977), while he was enjoying his popularity as a new-image hero.

Palekar has always said that he wanted to take up new challenges and break stereotypes and barriers. He produced and directed too, played even these roles very well. The serials he did for television and the films he directed exhibit his sensitivity as an artist.

Amol Palekar and Utpal Dutt gave us classics whose popularity refuses to fade. (Photo: YouTube screengrab)

The people who called him ‘plain-looking’ when he first appeared on screen realised soon enough the power of his natural performances, often underplayed with a quiet energy. His wide, ear-to-ear smile was another thing that made people love him.

Here’s wishing a happy birthday to this fine actor and director, who has been entertaining us through films that might very well have looked out of place to his audiences in the 1970s .

Those were the days of blockbusters like Aap Ki Kasam, Namak Haraam, Daag, Roti, Trishul, Deewar, Amar Akbar Anthony and of course, the hit of all times — the unforgettable Sholay! To have been able to make such a mark for himself with the rather quiet and mellow films he acted in was no mean feat. And to carry on giving successful films as an actor, later, as a director, established him forever as one of the finest artistes of the Hindi film industry.

Palekar wore many hats, and wore them well. But such was the magic of his performances that many will best remember him as Ramprasad Dashrathprasad Sharma and Lakshmanprasad Dashrathprasad Sharma!

Also read: How would Bauua Singh woo a lady? Like Shah Rukh Khan, of course

====== 127 ========

AS POLLS APPROACH, FARMERS' ISSUES GAIN TRACTION AGAIN

Farmers and farm-related issues have increasingly found support and government empathy — a sure sign that the voting season is here. The poor, the downtrodden, the backward find lots of mention in poll season simply because they make up more than seventy per cent of the 130-crore strong population.

That has been the story of politics in the country so far and it continues. Be it the party in power, out of power, aspiring for power, kings and kingmakers — all queue up. All political parties, big and small, popular and marginal are on the same page on this one.

The poor find lots of mention in poll season. (Photo: PTI)

The latest round sees, the All India Kisan Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Agricultural Workers Union organising a mega rally of farmers in the national capital on November 29 and 30.

Leaders of all Opposition parties have been invited to elucidate and propose on how they would address agrarian distress and various issues plaguing the farming community, if they are voted to power in 2019, on the concluding day of the rally. Interestingly, BJP has not been invited.

Congress president Rahul Gandhi will be among top Opposition leaders who will put forward their views and plans. It is a welcome step and it is expected that the discussion will focus on what is on in the kitty of the Opposition parties for the farmers and not like normal electoral rallies where three fourth of the airtime is consumed about what the party in power is doing wrong.

The Congress chief's participation is an effort by the Congress party to make agrarian distress a major poll plank. It is not clear if Rahul Gandhi is listening – his speeches are currently carrying a bit too much on deconstructing Rafale jets. The party will like to focus more on farmer's problems, especially in rural areas.

the Congress manifesto for Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are chiefly focused on the agrarian crisis. (Photo: PTI)

Uttar Pradesh was lost – badly. Now the party needs to win the three states of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which has 65 Lok Sabha seats. Of these, the BJP had bagged 62 in the 2014 general elections. If the Congress is to avoid a repeat it needs to perform well here and now.

In fact, the Congress manifesto for Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are chiefly focused on the agrarian crisis. It has promised loan waiver and welfare measures, including enhancing minimum support price for crops, more or less in line with what the Swaminathan Commission recommended.

From a historical perspective, the Congress party cannot avoid its responsibilities for the far distress that is plaguing India. it was the party which was in power, in the centre and states for the longest time since independence. The incumbent government, on its part, could do little to alleviate the socio-economic status of the farmers.

The government has changed, yet nothing has changed for the farmer. Then Congress and Manmohan Singh were in the crosshairs, and today it is PM Modi and BJP. Rahul Gandhi has time and again reiterated that as soon as Congress comes to power, farm loans would be waived. He never misses an opportunity to emphasise that PM Modi is averse to waiving farmer's loans.

However, the issue is that farm loan waiver is not going to solve anything. More or less every farm loan waiver has failed in its objective of bringing indebted farmers out of the debt trap. The main reason is that most of the farm loans are not from institutionalised sources.

The Mudra loan scheme was probably the easiest way to get a loan but its implementation has left a lot to be desired. Secondly, any loan waiver or non-repayment of loans adversely affects bank health, which in turn affects every sector, including the agricultural sector.

Moreover, a huge chunk of our farmers are the small and marginal ones, who are usually unable to secure bank loans and neither are the banks are interested in them. They will get absolutely no benefit from a loan waiver scheme.

On the MSP issue, it must be remembered that we have made it a habit of pursuing a short-term, emergency relief measure as a long-term solution. Over-dependence on MSP will make farming a non-profitable operation in the near future. It will also affect crop diversity and quality adversely. It is hard to understand why a farmer, after doing a good job – reaping a bumper harvest will have to rely on minimum support price?

The agricultural infrastructure of the country needs to be upgraded, modernised. (Photo: PTI)

When will our policymakers talk about the maximum median price for farm produce and farmers? When will the gap between what the farmer earns and what the consumer pays decrease? Basically, that is the middleman's cut – that constitutes a major part of what the consumer pays for farm produce.

Go, visit a neighbourhood vegetable or fruit mandi and you shall know how much it is. On a separate note, the agrarian community would like to see a policy measure to deal with those unfortunate families that have lost their primary breadwinner to suicide related to farm distress.

Often those left behind have no means to fend for themselves, leave alone repay a loan. Any measure to deal with this aspect would go a long way in addressing and easing farm distress and resultant human suffering.

The incumbent government speaks of doubling farmer's income. It will not happen with loan waivers and MSPs alone. While both of these measures will have their utility as short-term distress relief the focus should be on the overall development of the sector. The agricultural infrastructure of the country needs to be upgraded, modernised.

The farm sector needs a consolidated policy that will address issues of seeds, fertilisers, irrigation, power, weather forecast, cold chain, crop insurance, and above and over all a market where the farmer can meet the buyer, the consumer. The e-mandi concept of the government was ok on paper but on ground, implementation remains low.

The original proposal was of setting up over 400 e-mandis – the farmers need probably a couple of thousand. The day that is done I doubt if you will see our farmers on the streets, fighting for their survival and profession. That day, probably MSP and loan waiver would cease to be poll sops and India would have taken a huge leap towards development.

Also read: Madhya Pradesh elections: How people can get Congress and BJP’s attention to the Bhopal gas tragedy victims

====== 128 ========

UKRAINE ACCUSES RUSSIA OF FIRING ON, SEIZING THREE OF ITS SHIPS

Kiev, Nov 26 (AFP) Ukraine's navy accused Russia of opening fire on and seizing three of its vessels on Sunday in a strait near Moscow-annexed Crimea, sparking alarm among Kiev's Western allies and raising fears of possible military escalation.

The incident occurred in the Kerch Strait, a narrow waterway that gives access to the Sea of Azov that is used by Ukraine and Russia.

Ukraine's navy said it took place as three of its ships -- two small warships and a tugboat -- were heading through the strait for the port of Mariupol.

It said a Russian border guard vessel rammed the tugboat in "openly aggressive actions" and then fired on one of its ships. Two Ukrainian soldiers were reportedly injured.

The ramming damaged the tug's engine, outer shell and guardrail, it added.

It also said the Kerch Strait was blocked by a tanker, and that Russian military aircraft were flying over the area.

Russia in turn has accused Kiev of illegally entering its waters and deliberately provoking a conflict. Moscow claims the waters off Crimea after annexing the peninsula in 2014.

Russian politicians accused Ukraine of acting at the behest of its Western allies and deliberately attempting to escalate the conflict.

Crimean leader Sergei Aksyonov wrote on Facebook that he "was sure the Western masters of the Kiev regime are behind this act of provocation." Pyotr Tolstoy, deputy speaker of the Russian parliament, warned on Facebook that "the Ukrainian puppet authorities... are risking unleashing a large military conflict." "One thing is clear: Russia won't allow military provocations in its territorial waters," he said.

Russia's FSB security service, which oversees the border guard service, said in a statement quoted by Russian news agencies that the Ukrainian ships "illegally entered a temporarily closed area of Russian territorial waters".

It said Ukraine's ships were carrying out "provocative actions" and "their aim is clear: to create a conflict situation in this region." Ukraine said it gave Russia advance warning of its ships' route, which its ships are obliged to take to reach the Sea of Azov.

The latest incident comes after the Ukrainian navy in September complained of "acts of provocation" by Russian border guards against its ships taking the same route. Ukraine has increased the number of its navy ships and border guard patrols in the Sea of Azov, which is reached via the Kerch Strait between Crimea and Russia.

Kiev says its naval buildup is due to Russia stepping up controls in the area this year and carrying out lengthy checks on commercial shipping.

Kiev and the West have accused Moscow of deliberately blocking ships from accessing Mariupol, which has vital access to heavy industry in the region. Mariupol is close to the region of eastern Ukraine controlled by Russian-backed separatists in a conflict that has caused at least 10,000 deaths since 2014. (AFP) TIR TIR

====== 129 ========

9 HELD IN SEPARATE INCIDENTS OF CRIME IN NOIDA, GREATER NOIDA

Noida (UP), Nov 25 (PTI) Nine men were arrested in Noida and Greater Noida in three separate incidents of trespassing and theft Sunday, police said.

Five men were arrested in Moira's Sector 6 for allegedly breaking into private offices and committing thefts, the police said.

On a tip-off, the accused were held with firearms near the Sandeep Paper Mill square falling under the Sector 20 police station limits, they added.

"The accused would seek entry into offices and factory premises on some pretext, reconnoitre the area during the day and strike them at night," Station House Officer, Sector 20, Manoj Kumar Pant said.

Those arrested were identified as Ritesh, Satya, Manoj, Mustafa and Rakesh, he added.

Two pistols, two knives, two stolen laptops and computer accessories were seized from their possession, the SHO said.

The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 380 (theft), 457 (trespassing) and relevant sections of the Arms Act, he added.

Four other men were held in Greater Noida's Ecotech 3 area in two separate incidents, the police said.

Shafiqur Rahman, Praveen Verma and Babulal were held while transporting 20 quintals of TMT bars stolen from construction sites, they added.

"The pickup vehicle in which they were transporting the TMT bars was intercepted during a routine checking, after which they were held," SHO Anita Chauhan said.

She added that the three accused were charged under IPC section 414 for robbery and the vehicle was impounded.

In another incident, Sabir Khan was arrested after he was found to be driving a stolen car with a changed number plate, Chauhan said.

She added that during inspection, it was revealed that the vehicle was stolen four months ago from the expressway and the accused was booked under IPC sections 420 (fraud), 482 (using false property mark) and 379 (theft). PTI KIS RC

====== 130 ========

HIGHLY-QUALIFIED CANDIDATES IN FRAY FOR J&K PANCHAYAT POLLS

\R Jammu, Nov 25 (PTI) Many highly-qualified candidates are contesting the ongoing Jammu and Kashmir panchayat polls in to bring a change at the grassroots level in the state.

Sindhu Bhalla Sharma, who has an MPhil degree in Sanskrit, is contesting for the sarpanch post of her native Anjole village in Kishtwar district.

Sharma said she was inspired by Chhavi Rajawat, an MBA graduate quit her corporate career with India's one of the biggest telecom firms to become the country's one of the youngest sarpanchs from Soda in Rajasthan.

The tech-savvy 36-year-old Rajawat, often hailed as the changing face of rural Rajasthan, also addressed delegates at the United Nations' 11th Infopoverty World Conference in 2011.

"Impressed by Rajawat's commitment to the development of her ancestral village in Rajasthan, I decided to contest the panchayat polls to contribute in some way to bring whatever change possible to my remote village," Sharma said.

Another highly-qualified woman, Arti Sharma, from a village of Udhampur, is contesting the Ghordi Khass West Kulan sarpanch seat. "There are many burning issues that I want to resolve. If I get the mandate, I wish to lead and guide the rural women towards empowerment," Arti said.

Prithvi Raj, a PhD in botany, is a sarpanch candidate from the Loharna-A panchayat in Kishtwar. Mansoor Hussain, a masters-degree holder in political science and English, is a sarpanch candidate from the Loharna-B panchayat.

All these highly-educated candidates are keen to work for the development of their respective rural pockets.

"Funds are flowing to rural bodies. My primary concern will be to see that funds are judiciously utilised and not siphoned off," Hussain said.

The panchayat elections are being held in nine phases in the state from November 17-December 11 PTI AB HMB

====== 131 ========

"THANK YOU PRESIDENT T": TRUMP TWEETS AS HOLIDAY BREAK ENDS

West Palm Beach, Nov 25 (AP) President Donald Trump congratulated himself for falling oil prices . He chided the Federal Reserve over interest rates . He claimed Central American countries are trying to dump "certain people" into the United States.

Trump's Florida holiday stay was ending Sunday with a visit to his golf club for the fifth day in a row. His tweeting took no break.

The president patted himself on the back for a dip in petroleum prices, writing "thank you President T." He also admonished the U.S. central bank over the cost of borrowing money.

In a separate tweet, he called on Mexico to stop caravans of Central American migrants from trying to reach the U.S. border.

"Would be very SMART if Mexico would stop the Caravans long before they get to our Southern Border, or if originating countries would not let them form," he wrote, claiming, without evidence, that "it is a way they get certain people out of their country and dump in U.S. No longer."

He blamed Democrats for creating the problem, demanding: "No crossings!" Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn, said on ABC's "This Week" that the president should be taking responsibility for the situation. AP NSA NSA

====== 132 ========

OVER 170 HURT IN MAGNITUDE 6.3 EARTHQUAKE IN WESTERN IRAN

Tehran, Nov 25 (AP) A magnitude 6.3 earthquake struck western Iran near its border with Iraq on Sunday night, injuring over 170 people and sending fearful residents running into the street, authorities said.

The temblor hit near Sarpol-e Zahab in Iran's Kermanshah province, which was the epicenter of an earthquake last year that killed over 600 people and where some still remain homeless.

Morteza Salimi of Iran's Red Crescent told Iranian state television that 171 people were injured, most of them slightly. Kermanshah provincial Gov. Houshang Bazvand similarly said there were injuries, but few people hospitalized.

Authorities said six rescue teams were immediately deployed after the quake stopped and the country's army and its paramilitary Revolutionary Guard were responding.

Officials reported damage at buildings both in town and in rural Kermanshah, as well as to some roadways. The temblor also downed powerlines and caused power outages into the night as temperatures hovered around 8 degrees Celsius (46 degrees Fahrenheit).

The quake struck just after 8 pm in Iran, meaning most were still awake at the time and able to quickly flee.

The 6.3 earthquake had a depth of 10 kilometers, according to the US Geological Survey. Iran state TV gave the depth as 5 kilometers (3.1 miles). Such shallow earthquakes have broader damage.

The earthquake was felt as far away as the Iraqi capital of Baghdad. Iran is located on major seismic faults and experiences an earthquake per day on average. In 2003, a magnitude 6.6 earthquake flattened the historic city of Bam in southern Iran, killing 26,000 people.

Last year's earthquake near Sarpol-e Zahab, a predominantly Kurdish town, had a magnitude of 7.3 and injured more than 9,000 people. The region, nestled in the Zagros Mountains, largely rebuilt in recent decades after Iran and Iraq's ruinous 1980s war, saw many buildings collapse or sustain major damage in the 2017 quake.

Sarpol-e Zahab, some 520 kilometers southwest of the Iranian capital of Tehran, suffered half of the 2017 temblor's casualties. NSA NSA

====== 133 ========

INDIGO CANCELS FLIGHT TO DELHI, BJP MP MEENAKSHI LEKHI AMONG PASSENGERS STRANDED AT INDORE AIRPORT

Mumbai, Nov 25 (PTI) Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian Meenakshi Lekhi and her co-passengers were stranded at the Indore airport after their flight to New Delhi was cancelled at the last minute due to "technical" reasons.

"Stuck at Indore Airport, people are angry and disappointed by the conduct of IndiGo officials," Lekhi said in a tweet along with a video clip of the angry passengers.

The IndiGo flight 6E 8867, operated by an Airbus A320, was scheduled to take off at 9.20 pm, but the airline informed the passengers that the flight was delayed by half-an-hour. "Fifteen minutes later, IndiGo announced that it had cancelled the flight due to technical reasons," a passenger said.

"The airline also informed the passengers the flight will now depart on Monday at 12.30," he added.

The passengers also claimed that the airline did not accept the request for providing food or hotel accommodations, alleging that the IndiGo staff was not at all cooperative.

IndiGo officials could not be contacted for comments. PTI IAS HMB

====== 134 ========

ASSAM CM DIRECTS OFFICIALS TO INTENSIFY ANTI-INSURGENCY OPERATIONS

Dibrugarh, Nov 25 (PTI) Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal reviewed the law-and-order situation in nine upper Assam districts on Sunday and directed officials that anti-insurgency operations be intensified.

He took stock of the law-and-order situation from the Superintendents of Police (SPs) of Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar, Charaideo, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Dhemaji and Lakhimpur districts at a meeting here on Sunday night which was attended by the DGP and senior officials of the Army and paramilitary forces.

After the meeting, Sonowal told reporters that he has asked the police, Army and paramilitary forces to work unitedly and directed the SPs to take every section of the society into confidence for ensuring the security of the people.

He also instructed the SPs to take steps for ensuring that the panchayat elections in 26 districts and 14 civil sub-divisions of the state scheduled on December 5 and 9 are held in a free and fair manner.

"The people of Assam want peace. Both the Central and state governments have taken steps for the development of Assam," the chief minister said.

Asserting that progress is possible only there is peace, Sonowal said the 68 lakh families residing in Assam want their life and property to be protected and his government has taken sincere steps to ensure that.

ULFA(I) has recently stepped up its activities in upper Assam districts resorting to killings and kidnappings, including the gunning down of five people at Dhola in Tinsukia district on November 1. A number of youths have reportedly joined the the proscribed outfit led by Paresh Baruah in the last few months.

DGP Kuladhar Saikia told reporters that the ongoing operations against the ULFA(I) and other extremist outfits activities need to be intensified.

"We discussed with the SPs about the number of men and women who have joined the ULFA(I) and find out from village headmen and other important the locals as well as village defence parties about the number of people who recently left the villages to join the group so that we can take necessary action," he said. PTI ESB NSD

====== 135 ========

PAKISTAN TWIST TO THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR POWER PLAY

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 136 ========

JAMMU AND KASHMIR ASSEMBLY DISSOLVED: WILL GOVERNOR'S DECISION STAND JUDICIAL SCRUTINY?

In a dramatic development, the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly was dissolved on Wednesday night after three mainstream parties came together to stake claim to form a government that was countered by Peoples Conference leader Sajad Lone with the BJP's backing.

Governor Satya Pal Malik made a terse announcement saying he was exercising powers conferred on him by the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and dissolving the House which had two more years to go.

====== 137 ========

SUSHMA SWARAJ NOT TO CONTEST IN 2019: SANYAS FOR EXTERNAL AFFAIRS MINISTER?

Senior BJP leader and External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj announced Tuesday that she will not contest the next Lok Sabha polls due to health reasons.

The 66-year-old leader, who is serving her fourth term in the House and has long been her party's most prominent woman face, told reporters, "It is the party which decides, but I have made up my mind not to contest the next (Lok Sabha) elections due to health reasons."

====== 138 ========

IS MODI GOVT ERODING CBI'S AUTONOMY?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 139 ========

SHIV SENA ATTACKS BJP OVER RAM MANDIR

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 140 ========

CONGRESS, BJP LOCK HORNS OVER APPEASEMENT VIDEO

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 141 ========

POLITICAL DRAMA IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR AS GOVERNOR DISSOLVES ASSEMBLY

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 142 ========

CASTE ROW: IS TWITTER CEO JACK DORSEY GUILTY OF BIAS?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 143 ========

NOT AN EASY BATTLE FOR SHIVRAJ IN MADHYA PRADESH: PSE POLL

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 144 ========

POLITICAL STOCK EXCHANGE: WHO WILL WIN THE SEMI-FINAL BEFORE 2019 LOK SABHA ELECTIONS?

The BJP faces a neck-and-neck contest in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and a debacle in Rajasthan in the upcoming Assembly elections, according to the Political Stock Exchange.

In Telangana, chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao looks set to sweep the December 7 state poll, with 75 per cent voters found to be backing his Telangana Rashtra Samithi.

====== 145 ========

POLITICAL STOCK EXCHANGE: ALL EXCEPT SOUTH SAY YES TO MODI FOR 2019

Barring the South, the rest of India prefers Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Congress president Rahul Gandhi as the country's next PM, according to the nationwide findings of the Political Stock Exchange (PSE).

Asked about the performance of the central government, 44 per cent of respondents across India found it to be satisfactory. Another 30 per cent expressed dissatisfaction while 20 per cent rated it average.

====== 146 ========

1962 INDO-CHINA WAR HEROES: DHAN S THAPA, JOGINDER SINGH

Watch the story of Subedar Joginder Singh and the Defense of Tawang and Major Dhan Singh Thapa and the Battle of Sirijah.

Subedar Joginder Singh and Major Dhan Singh Thapa are the heroes of 1962 war between India and China.

Joginder Singh received the Param Vir Chakra, India's highest military gallantry award, posthumously on October 23, 1962 while major Dhan Singh Thapa received it on October 20, 1962.

====== 147 ========

BATTLE OF NAUSHERA: HOW NAIK JADUNATH SINGH AND SECOND LT. RAMA RAGHOBA RANE DISLODGED PAKISTANI FORCES IN 1948

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 148 ========

CHM PIRU SINGH CHARGED ALONE AT PAKISTANI BUNKERS

Company Haviladar Major Piru Singh single-handedly occupied an enemy post and moved to attack another when a grenade hit him during the battle of Tithwal in Kashmir. He still lobbed grenades and managed to destroy another bunker before succumbing to death.

This lion-heart of India was awarded the Param Vir Chakra posthumously for his profound courage. It is India's highest military decoration for valour.

====== 149 ========

WILL DEVELOPMENT EVER BE A REALITY IN MAOIST-INFESTED AREAS OF CHHATTISGARH?

With the BJP's dominion over the state of Chhattisgarh yet to be decided in the assembly elections, one thing evident is the lack of development there given the Naxal problem.

Watch as India Today's Rahul Kanwal travels with Army personnel through Maoist infested areas of Sukma in the second half of this jab We Met special.

====== 150 ========

JAB WE MET CRPF'S COBRA COMMANDOS

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 151 ========

JAB WE MET: UNION MINISTER KIREN RIJIJU SHOWS HIS SHOOTING AND SINGING SKILLS

In this episode of Jab We Met, Union minister Kiren Rijiju showed his shooting and singing skills. He sang the classic number 'Tumse Achcha Kaun Hai' and talked about his favorite Bollywood actors.

Rijiju also talked about India's preparedness to take on China.

====== 152 ========

JAB WE MET: CHETAN BHAGAT WALKS DOWN MEMORY LANE, TALKS ABOUT HIS MASTI KI PATHSHALA AND FIRST KISS

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 153 ========

CHECKMATED IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR, HAS THE BJP FALLEN BACK ON THE PAK BOGEY?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 154 ========

IS RAM MANDIR AN ELECTION JUMLA FOR BJP?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 155 ========

AMRITSAR ATTACK: IS PUNJAB BACK ON PAKISTAN'S TERROR RADAR?

Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced a reward of Rs 50 lakh to anyone giving information regarding the two youths who carried out Sunday's grenade attack on a prayer meeting at the Nirankari Satsang Bhawan of Amritsar district.

On Sunday, Singh had termed the attack as "the first such indiscriminate attack on innocent people in recent past", and added that the "possibility of involvement of ISI-based Khalistani/Kashmiri terror groups cannot be ruled out".

====== 156 ========

SABARIMALA TO REOPEN: WILL WOMEN SCRIPT HISTORY THIS TIME?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 157 ========

VOTE ON MADHYA PRADESH: IS IT CONGRESS'S BEST CHANCE TO OVERTHROW SHIVRAJ GOVT?

Madhya Pradesh will go to polls on November 28. The single-phase election is seen as a direct political battle between the BJP and the Congress.



Meanwhile, Shivraj Singh Chouhan is eyeing to secure his fourth consecutive term as chief minister, the Congress is looking to regain power after 2003.

The results will be declared on December 11.

====== 158 ========

SABARIMALA: IS THE TEMPLE CONTROVERSY BEING USED TO SETTLE POLITICAL SCORES?

Even as activist Trupti Desai was turned away and not allowed to come out of Kochi Airport, let alone enter Sabarimala temple, we wonder if the entire controversy has given politicians opportunity to target their opponents.

Both the Left and the BJP have called Desai an agent of the enemy camp. Will Supreme Court verdict on Sabarimala ever brought into practice?

====== 159 ========

TM KRISHNA CONCERT SCRAPPED FOR FAILURE TO HIT RIGHT NOTE?

A major storm brewed on Thursday following the postponement of a concert by noted Carnatic musician TM Krishna sponsored by the Airports Authority of India on Saturday following vicious trolling of the artist by rightwing elements on social media.

Krishna alleged that "troll armies have links with people in power" and described the postponement as an attack on freedom of expression.

====== 160 ========

RAFALE BATTLE IN SUPREME COURT

Today, the Supreme Court finished hearing all arguments on the petitions seeking a court-monitored probe. The marathon hearing was marked with some heated and witty exchanges between the judges, the petitioners and the government's lawyers.

The Supreme Court focused on three crucial issues: The procedure followed for signing the Rafale deal, the Indian Air Force's requirements, and the controversial offset process.

====== 161 ========

INDIAN DIPLOMATS INSULTED AGAIN IN PAKISTAN, SUICIDE BOMBERS STORMED CHINESE CONSULATE, MORE

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 162 ========

KHALISTAN SUPPORTER IN PAKISTAN INSULTS INDIAN OFFICIALS

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 163 ========

PUNJAB CM CONFIRMS PAKISTAN'S HAND IN AMRITSAR ATTACK; MEHBOOBA MUFTI STAKES CLAIM TO FORM GOVT IN J&K; MORE

Within 72 hours of the terror incident, the Punjab Police has arrested one person in connection with Sunday's grenade attack on the Nirankari Satsang Bhawan that killed three persons, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday.

Amarinder blamed Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency and the Pakistan-based masterminds of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) for the terror attack.

====== 164 ========

CAN WORLD SHAME PAKISTAN TO DUMP TERROR AS STATE POLICY?

The administration of US President Donald Trump suspended security assistance to Pakistan because it failed to address the problem of militant safe havens inside its territory, the White House said on Monday.

While Imran Khan responded with a tweet, saying that his country had suffered enough by fighting terrorism on behalf of the US.

====== 165 ========

HAS CONGRESS FORGOTTEN WHAT PERSONAL COMMENTS DO?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 166 ========

DID JOHN ALLEN CHAU HAVE ANY BUSINESS GOING TO THE SENTINEL ISLAND?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 167 ========

IS UDDHAV THACKERAY'S RAM MANDIR JIBE A NEW TACTIC TO BULLY MODI GOVT?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 168 ========

POLITICAL WAR BREAKS OUT OVER ASADUDDIN OWAISI'S 'BRIBE' CHARGE ON CONGRESS

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 169 ========

ONLY BRAHMINS CAN TALK ABOUT HINDUSIM, NOT MODI, SAYS CONGRESS' CP JOSHI

Senior Congress leader C P Joshi has said that only Brahmins are qualified to speak on the Hindu religion. the Congress leader also questioned how PM Modi and Uma Bharti are going on and on about Hinduism as they belong to different castes.

The comment comes just days before the upcoming Rajasthan elections, where the Congress is looking to unseat BJP's Vasundhara Raje.

====== 170 ========

J&K GOVERNOR DISSOLVES ASSEMBLY, AAP VS DELHI COPS, MORE

As both PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and People's Conference leader Sajad Lone staked claim to form the government in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, Governor Satyapal Malik dissolved the legislative assembly in the evening.

Shifting focus to another news story, 21 Aam Aadmi Party MLAs have written to the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to amend the rule of ex-gratia to families of martyred Delhi cops.

Watch this and more on First Up.

====== 171 ========

TERROR THREAT IN DELHI, POLITICAL WAR ERUPTS OVER SABARIMALA, MORE

Delhi Police has released a photograph of two suspected terrorists who are feared to have entered the Capital. The authorities have issued an advisory for locals to immediately call the Paharganj police if they spot these two men in Delhi-NCR.

Watch this and more on First Up.

====== 172 ========

CHHATTISGARH POLLS FINAL PHASE TODAY, SHOPIAN ENCOUNTER, CBI WAR INTENSIFIES, MORE



Chhattisgarh is voting for 72 assembly seats across 19 districts of the state today in the second and final phase of the state assembly election 2018.

Meanwhile, an army jawan and four militants have reportedly been killed in an encounter in J&K's Shopian district as voting is underway for the second phase of panchayat polls in the state.

Watch this and more on First Up.

====== 173 ========

KNOW EVERYTHING THAT LED TO THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR ASSEMBLY DISSOLUTION

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 174 ========

1 GETS DEATH SENTENCE IN 1984 ANTI-SIKH RIOTS: A RAY OF HOPE FOR VICTIMS

This is the first time a convict has been handed the death sentence in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots after the cases were reopened by the SIT in 2015.

Convict Yashpal Singh, who was accused of killing two persons during the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi's Mahipalpur area, was given the death sentence. The other convict, Naresh Sherawat, will be serving a life term in prison.

The verdict is seen as a ray of hope for the Sikh community and the victims of the riots.

====== 175 ========

IN DEPTH: US-PAKISTAN TIES ON THE DOWNSWING

Pakistan on Tuesday summoned the American Charge d'Affaires in Islamabad to protest against US President Donald Trump's remarks that Islamabad had helped slain Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden to hide in the country.

"The Foreign Secretary (Tehmina Janjua) called in the US Charge d'Affaires Ambassador Paul Jones to register a strong protest on the unwarranted and unsubstantiated allegations made against Pakistan," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

====== 176 ========

IN DEPTH: MARATHA QUOTA A PANDORA'S BOX?

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 177 ========

NICK JONAS ARRIVES IN DELHI, THE LION KING TEASER OUT

With days to go before Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas's wedding festivities begin, the American singer landed in the capital.

Meanwhile, The Lion King is returning as a feature film, with a stellar cast. The teaser of the film just hit the web, and the excitement has reached a feverish pitch.

All this and more, on this episode of In Da Club.

====== 178 ========

RANVEER AND DEEPIKA'S BENGALURU RECEPTION WAS A REGAL AFFAIR

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 179 ========

RANVEER AND DEEPIKA WEDDING AT LAKE COMO: INSIDE DETAILS

Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone's dreamy wedding at Villa del Balbianello is just a day away, and the picturesque property has been closed down for a week for the wedding celebrations. The lovebirds will tie the knot on November 14 and 15 at Lake Como in Italy in the presence of family and close friends. The preparations for Ranveer and Deepika's wedding are on in full swing. On Monday morning, twelve florists were specially flown in from Florence to decorate Villa del Balbianello. Incidentally, the couple and their families are not staying at the villa, but a luxury resort on the east side of Lake Como, in the pretty village of Blevio. The resort, which has been fully booked for the wedding, is also being decked up by the florists.

====== 180 ========

RANVEER AND DEEPIKA TO MARRY AT VILLA DEL BALBIANELLO IN LAKE COMO

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 181 ========

IT'S UNFORTUNATE, I FELT INDIA COULD HAVE WON MELBOURNE T20I: NIKHIL CHOPRA

Relentless rain in Melbourne meant the second T20 International between Australia and India had to be abandoned after the hosts had finished with 132 for seven off 19 overs.

There was a brief exchange of words between Virat Kohli and the umpires who did not stop play even as it started raining heavily in the 18th over. The first T20I in Brisbane was also affected by rain but play was possible after the match had been reduced to 17-overs-per-side.

Despite several score adjustments due to DLS method, the rain never really stopped and the game just could not take place.

"132 for 19 overs even if the match would have gone for another over, you're looking at 142. 143 or 144 chasing with the kind of batting side Team India has got, I don't see it as a problem. It's unfortunate, I felt we could have won that game but I guess we can't really do too much about the rain.

"Now when you look back, you were thinking of winning the T20 series. At best, you can go out there and level the series but you have to take heart from the way the bowlers have come back into the game. It's been a good learning for people like Krunal Pandya as well and even Khaleel [Ahmed]. Unfortunately, we couldn't get a win," Nikhil Chopra told India Today.

====== 182 ========

AUSTRALIA ANNOUNCE TEST SQUAD FOR SERIES AGAINST INDIA

Australia have named two uncapped players in an inexperienced squad to take on India next month in their first home series since Steve Smith and David Warner were banned for a year following the ball-tampering scandal.

Opening batsman Marcus Harris and paceman Chris Tremain were included in the 14-man squad announced on Thursday to take on the top-ranked Indian tourists in the first two Tests in the four-match series in Adelaide and Perth.

Harris, who hit an unbeaten 250 for Victoria against New South Wales last month, was preferred to Matt Renshaw and looks likely to open the batting with Aaron Finch, who got his first taste of test cricket against Pakistan in October.

Batsman Cameron Bancroft received a nine-month ban for his part in the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa in March and will be eligible to return in January, while Smith and Warner will have to wait until the end of March.

The first Test against India begins on Dec. 6 with the series concluding in Melbourne and Sydney around the New Year.

====== 183 ========

SUZUKI BURGMAN, HONDA AFRICA TWIN ANNIVERSARY RIDE AND DIGITAL AGE OF WHEELS



====== 184 ========

HYUNDAI FORT DRIVE, VOLKSWAGEN I.D.R PIKES PEAK, AND MONSOON TIPS FOR YOUR CAR

Hyundai Fort Drive, Volkswagen I.D.R Pikes Peak, and monsoon tips for your car

====== 185 ========

KIA CARNIVAL, MERCEDES AMG E63 S SUPER SEDAN, AND 70 YEARS OF THE LAND ROVER

Kia Carnival, Mercedes AMG E63 S super sedan, and 70 years of the Land Rover

====== 186 ========

JAGUAR F-TYPE SVR, HONDA X-BLADE, AND TIPS TO BEAT THE HEAT.

Jaguar F-Type SVR, Honda X-Blade, and tips to beat the heat.

====== 187 ========

TEJ PRATAP QUOTES RAHIM'S DOHA TO EXPLAIN PAIN OF DIVORCE WITH AISHWARYA RAI

Tej Pratap had said that Aishwarya was too modern for his simpleton heart.

Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav, in a Twitter post on Thursday, seemed to have expressed his pain over his soured marriage with Aishwarya Rai.

Tej Pratap shared poet Rahim's couplet Rahiman Dhaga Prem Ka.

Rahim's couplet tells how broken relationships can never be mended back to normal.

... , Tej Pratap Yadav (@TejYadav14) November 22, 2018

Lalu Prasad's elder son Tej Pratap filed for divorce with his wife Aishwarya Rai on November 2, barely six months after their marriage. He cited incompatibility and cruelty as grounds for seeking divorce.

Tej Pratap had married Aishwarya Rai, the daughter of RJD MLA Chandrika Rai and granddaughter of Daroga Prasad Rai, the former chief minister of Bihar. The wedding took place on May 12 this year in Patna.

Tej Pratap had said that Aishwarya was too modern for his simpleton heart. He had said that there was no point living a suffocating life.

Two days after filing his divorce, Tej Pratap said that his family was supporting Aishwarya and conspiring against him. Earlier, he also told reporters that he was just a pawn and was forced to marry Aishwarya against his wishes.

Tej Pratap's younger brother Tejashwi Yadav had said that he would not like to discuss the issue of Tej Pratap's decision to divorce his Aishwarya as it was not a matter of public interest. He stressed that the issue, which has caused much upheaval in the Yadav household, is a family matter and the family is capable of resolving it internally.

Also read | Lalu Prasad loses sleep over son Tej Pratap's divorce plea

Also watch | Tej Pratap Yadav falls off his bicycle at Patna rally

====== 188 ========

PRIYANKA CHOPRA SHARES COSY PHOTO WITH NICK JONAS. HIS MOM'S COMMENT IS UNMISSABLE

Priyanka Chopra welcomed her fiancé Nick Jonas home on Thursday evening, with a loved-up picture of the two of them. Nick landed in Delhi, where Priyanka is shooting for Shonali Bose's The Sky Is Pink, last evening.

The picture is taking the internet by storm and has been flooded with innumerable compliments from fans. However, the one comment that grabbed our attention was Nick's mother Denise Miller-Jonas's comment.

"Hearts full of thanksgiving," she wrote, followed by a heart emoji. Nick, meanwhile, commented with a heart emoji.

Photo: Screenshot

Meanwhile, Priyanka and Nick enjoyed a Thanksgiving dinner last night with the actress's family. She shared a picture, in which she was holding hands with her fiancé. She captioned it, "Happy thanksgiving.. family.. forever.."

Even though Priyanka and Nick have been tight-lipped about their wedding, the grapevine is abuzz with rumours that the couple will tie the knot in Jodhpur, in the presence of close friends and family members. The pre-wedding festivities will reportedly begin on November 29.

Whispers doing the rounds suggest that Nick arrived in the country early, to brush up his dancing skills. It is being said that at the couple's sangeet ceremony, he will be dancing to a medley of Priyanka's songs including Galla Goodiyan, Desi Girl and Pinga. Ganesh Hegde will reportedly choroegraph the function.

Priyanka and Nick will have two different wedding ceremonies, to honour each other's customs. They will get married according to Hindu rituals on December 2, and a Christian wedding will follow on December 3.

ALSO READ: Priyanka Chopra to shoot for The Sky Is Pink till day before wedding, says producer

====== 189 ========

WOMEN'S WORLD T20: MITHALI'S EXCLUSION RAISES QUESTIONS AFTER INDIA'S SEMI-FINAL LOSS

The Indian cricket team lost the semi-final of Women's World T20 on Friday but it was Mithali Raj being dropped from the playing XI that sent shockwaves among the fans.

India won the toss and opted to bat and it was then that captain Harmanpreet Kaur announced that Mithali was not in the playing XI. She said that the Indian management had decided to back their winning combination.

Mithali had not played India's final group match against Australia, which they won by a massive 48 runs, because she was unwell. But her omission on Friday was the management's decision and fans were not happy about it.

Mithali had batted in two matches so far, had scored two half-centuries and had won two player-of-the-match awards. Her exclusion felt nothing short of bizarre to most.

India vs England, Women's World T20 Semis: Highlights | Report

"It's not a pitch where you can hit through the line and fetch boundaries. Mithali Raj would have been ideal on this pitch. Wrong move by India to drop Mithali. But India still good enough to beat ENG," Sanjay Manjrekar tweeted.

It’s not a pitch where you can hit through the line and fetch boundaries. Mithali Raj would have been ideal on this pitch. Wrong move by India to drop Mithali. But India still good enough to beat ENG.#ICCWWT20 Sanjay Manjrekar (@sanjaymanjrekar) November 23, 2018

However, it did not turn out to be very pretty for Harmanpreet's side as Smriti Mandhana remained their top scorer with 34 runs in 23 deliveries while India got all out for just 112 runs.

According to fans, India missed Mithali's stability in the middle where she could have ground out some runs on a tough pitch.

A twitter user 'aprajita bansal' reminded the Indian management that Mithali had one of the best records against England and this pitch was hers to exploit.

Drop Mithali Raj and you dropped the World Cup. This is what happens when you start to play god. she is tailor made for these kind of pitches and has one of the best records against England . #IndvEng aprajita bansal (@aprajita13) November 23, 2018

Horrible Horrible display of batting, Never ever drop Mithali Raj, specially on such decks!!! #wt20 Monica (@monicas004) November 23, 2018

Also read - Women's World T20: No regrets, says Harmanpreet Kaur after India's semi-final defeat

Fans compared dropping Mithali Raj to leaving out MS Dhoni in big matches and some said that the experience of Mithali could have come handy for the Indian team.

If India men plays Knockout,one would simply Play @msdhoni Coz any team in d world feels pressure against him,despite the form he's in.Mithali Raj brings same to the table,n she was in sheer form unlike MS.This out of the box strategy has cost us maybe a trophy. #WWT20 #INDvENG Saurabh Tripathi (@BeingShubh55555) November 23, 2018

India Women lost seven wickets in their last 27 balls today and this is where they needed the experience and calmness of Mithali Raj.#INDvENG Umang Pabari (@UPStatsman) November 23, 2018

Some people also questioned the role and contribution of Veda Krishnamurthy in the team so far.

Whats the think tank smoking?? Harman actually thought (powar made her believe,whatever) she & smriti can win ????#wt20 along with newbies & legendary @vedakmurthy08 ??????ridiculously funny,ironic & sad both at the same time. Fools u Drop @M_Raj03 & dropped the wc #INDvENG DS (@damayant1s) November 23, 2018

Am terribly keen to know whose nudes @vedakmurthy08 has to guarantee a perm place in the team?? 5 matches not even 10 delvs faced..not even one decent innings this whole yr yet they keep her ??disappoint millions by dropping mithali raj.. #INDvENG DS (@damayant1s) November 23, 2018

Mithali Raj and Nat Sciver, two costly drops from India. Experience do matter in big matches. #WT20 #INDvENG Manoj Dimri (@manoj_dimri) November 23, 2018

If you don't pick your best player in semifinals you deserve to lose. Even Captain doesn't want to regret On Mithali Raj not featuring in this Game.We played well throughout the tournament. But missing Stumping nd catches in this make England to swung the Game Around. #INDvENG Abhishek Chauhan (@abhiraj0014) November 23, 2018

While most fans blamed Harmanpreet, coach Ramesh Powar and the Indian management for taking such a decision, a few also pointed out how this would have been hailed as a brilliant move had India won the match.

The funny thing about Cricket match loss is post mortem; had India girls won, team management would have been praised for brilliant tactical move of dropping Mithali Raj. Makarand Waingankar (@wmakarand) November 23, 2018

====== 190 ========

RAJ BABBAR CALLS PM MODI MANHOOS, MOCKS HIS MOTHER'S AGE

Congress leader Raj Babbar launched a scathing personal attack against Prime Minster Narendra Modi while campaigning for Madhya Pradesh assembly elections on Thursday.

The Uttar Pradesh Congress chief reportedly called PM Modi 'manhoos'(ominous) over the rising fuel prices. Furthermore, Babbar compared the devalued rate of the Indian rupee to the PM's nonagenarian mother, who is around 97 years old.

"He [Modi] used to say that the rupee has fallen so much against the dollar that it was nearing the age of the then prime minister [Manmohan Singh]. Today, the rupee's value has dropped so low, that it is inching closer to your[Modi's] beloved mother's age," Babbar said at a rally in Indore.

Jab vo (PM Modi) kehte te ki dollar ke samne rupaya itna gir gaya ki uss waqt ke PM ki umar batha karke kehte te ki unki umar ke kareeb ja raha hai.Aj ka rupaya,apki pujniye mataji ki umar ke kareeb niche girna shuru hogaya hai:Raj Babbar,Congress,in Indore,MadhyaPradesh. (22.11) pic.twitter.com/5vTv0c2sKb ANI (@ANI) November 22, 2018

A Congress leader from Uttar Pradesh, Akhilesh Pratap Singh, defended Babbar's comments by saying that even PM Modi frequently takes jibes at the Gandhi family in his speeches.

Babbar also said that his party was never opposed to the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya and he now felt that even the Muslim community wanted it.

The decision on the vexed issue, however, will be taken by the Supreme Court, he said ahead of the November 28 assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh.

Babbar said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rakes up the temple issue during every election.

"BJP has never had any great passion for Lord Ram. Whenever there is election, the BJP starts seeking votes in Ram's name," Babbar stated.

"People have begun to realise that BJP is deceiving voters on the issue of Ram temple. It promises to build the temple but will not tell the date," he said.

Asked about UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath targeting Congress president Rahul Gandhi during the poll campaign, Babbar said, "What can be said about a person who left the temple to join politics? Adityanath should be asked whether he is maintaining the dignity of his saffron robes."

To another question about actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha, Babbar said, "BJP has insulted Sinha. The fake politicians within the BJP are not able to tolerate him."

READ | Regional parties will come together to teach BJP a lesson, says Raj Babbar

ALSO WATCH | Vote on Madhya Pradesh: BJP vs Congress: Who is truly secular?

====== 191 ========

CYCLONE GAJA IN TAMIL NADU: WHY BAY OF BENGAL STORMS ARE MORE SEVERE

Tamil Nadu is on high alert in the view of Cyclone Gaja. (Photo: PTI file)

Cyclone Gaja made landfall between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry early Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said severe cyclonic storm Gaja crossed coast between Nagapattinam and Vedaranniyam with wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting up to 120 kmph.

Tamil Nadu government announced helpline numbers 1070 (state-level) and 1077 (districts) for those needing assistance in the wake of Cyclone Gaja.

Coastal towns of Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thondi and Pamban in Tamil Nadu received heavy rainfall due to Cyclone Gaja that originated in the Bay of Bengal. Similar weather conditions prevailed over Karaikkal and other parts of Puducherry.

Cyclonic storms originating in the Bay of Bengal have been more dangerous than those hitting the western coast of India from the Arabian Sea.

According to the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) of the central government, India's east coast is one of the six most cyclone prone areas in the world. A total of 84 coastal districts in 13 states and Union Territories are cyclone-affected.

Cyclone: East vs West

Cyclones hit Indian coasts in two seasons - May-June and October-November. The month of November is considered the primary peak for cyclones while May is the time for secondary peak.

The NCRMP analysis of cyclones during 1891-2000 shows that while 308 cyclones (103 being severe) affected the east coast, only 48 tropical cyclones (24 being sever) crossed the west coast.

Of all the cyclones developing in the Bay of Bengal, over 58 per cent made landfall on Indian coasts in October and November. The corresponding number for cyclones originating in the Arabian Sea is 25 per cent. West is relatively peaceful.

But why do cyclones are so bad in the east?

The answer to this question lies in the differing natures of the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.

Most of Indian coasts lie in tropical region. Tropical cyclones need a temperature of around 25-27 degree Celsius. Greater the temperature over sea, more powerful is cyclone. The Arabian Sea is relatively cooler than this temperature range, which the Bay of Bengal offers. This is why Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal face more cyclones than Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Greater frequency of Bay of Bengal cyclones and more strength to them come from a foreign source as well. Neighbouring Pacific Ocean seas are more prone to cyclones. Typhoons originating in near Philippines, China, Thailand and Malaysia enter the Andaman Sea of Bay of Bengal after they weaken in their native regions. Most of the cyclones in the Arabian Sea are local. They collapse a little after making landfall as there is no back-up supply. Recent Ockhi cyclone was one of the exceptions that remained strong for some time even after hitting Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts. Also, the hills along the eastern coasts are not high enough to stop cyclones making much inroad into the coastal states. The Western Ghats run almost the entire distance of the western coasts preventing the cyclonic storms to go in the hinterland.

Don'ts and dos during cyclones: Advisory by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). (Photo: Twitter/@ndmaindia)

(The story has been updated)

Read | Cyclone Gaja live updates

Watch | Tamil Nadu on high alert in the view of Cyclone Gaja

====== 192 ========

WHEN PANDIT NEHRU SAID I AM BUSY BUT READY TO VISIT AYODHYA

Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was the first Prime Minister of India. His birth anniversary is celebrated as Children's Day on November 14 every year. (File photo)

Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was a self-confessed atheist. But there came a time soon after Independence when Nehru said that he was ready to go to Ayodhya. However, he could never undertake that journey. Nehru was the prime minister when the Ayodhya dispute of Ram Janmabhoomi firmed its roots.

On the intervening night of December 22-23 in 1949, two idols were placed inside the central dome of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. The idols were of Lord Ram and his wife Sita.

Some priests and devotees claimed that the idols "appeared" miraculously on their own inside the mosque, which according to them was built on the site of a temple in 1539 by a military commander of Mughal king Babar. Others claimed that a gang had broken into the mosque and placed the idols.

A police constable named Mata Prasad recorded the statements at the Babri Masjid compound on December 23. His First Information Report (FIR) said that a group of "50-60 unidentified others entered the mosque surreptitiously and spoiled its sanctity."

The occasion was celebrated by priests, devotees and several local groups. But it also led to communal tension in Ayodhya in particular and United Province (as Uttar Pradesh was known then) in general. Chief Minister of United Province at the time was Govind Ballabh Pant, a veteran Congress leader.

Nehru's Letters on Ayodhya

Three days later (on December 26) Pandit Nehru shot off a telegram to GB Pant on Ayodhya dispute saying, "I am disturbed at developments at Ayodhya. Earnestly hope you will personally interest yourself in this matter. Dangerous example being set there which will have bad consequences."

Some reports suggest that Nehru also wrote a note directing the state government to shift the idols of Ram Lalla and Sita out of the Babri Masjid premises.

Nehru reiterated his concern in his letter to C Rajagopalachari, then Governor-General of India. "I wrote to Pantji last night about Ayodhya and sent this letter with a person who was going to Lucknow. Pantji telephoned to me later. He said he was very worried and he was personally looking into this matter," read Nehru's letter, dated January 7, 1950

Nehru blamed DM for Ayodhya dispute

Another letter (dated March 5, 1950) of Pandit Nehru suggests that an instruction was passed on to the Faizabad district administration which apparently refused to comply with the directive. This letter was a reply to the one he received from celebrated Gandhian KG Mashruwala.

Nehru wrote, "You refer to the Ayodhya mosque. This event occurred two or three months ago and I have been very gravely perturbed over it. The U.P. Government put up a brave show, but actually did little. Their District Officer in Fyzabad [K.K. Nayar, ICS] rather misbehaved and took no steps to prevent this happening."

Nayar was the district magistrate of Faizabad then. Ayodhya falls in the Faizabad district. Incidentally, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has recently announced to rename Faizabad district as Aydohya.

On the other hand, Nayar had defended his decision of apparently not acting on a directive of then prime minister routed through the state government. He wrote a letter to then UP chief secretary saying, "I would, if the government decided to remove the idols at any cost, request that I be relieved and replaced by an officer who may be able to see in the solution a merit which I cannot discern."

Nayar also claimed that removal of idols from the disputed site would cause widespread suffering, which might result in loss of many lives.

Nehru's Ayodhya Promise

Against this background Nehru suggested in yet another letter to GB Pant that he was ready to visit Ayodhya. On February 5, 1950, Nehru wrote to Pant saying that the Ayodhya dispute might have a bearing on the rest of India including Kashmir issue.

"I shall be glad if you will keep me informed of the Ayodhya situation. As you know, I attached great importance to it and to its repercussions on all-India affairs and more especially Kashmir.

"I suggested to you when you were here last that, if necessary, I would go to Ayodhya. If you think this should be done. I shall try to find the date, although I am terribly busy," Nehru wrote.

This visit did never take place as soon the gates of the Babari Masjid were locked to pacify the communal tension in Ayodhya. Entry of public was prohibited. A priest was allowed to worship the idols of Ram Lalla and Sita once a year.

The gates were thrown open in 1986 after the then government of Rajiv Gandhi - the grandson of Pandit Nehru - decided to do so.

Read | India has chaiwala as PM because of Nehru, says Shashi Tharoor

Google Doodle celebrates Children's Day on Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru's birthday: Facts on India's first PM

When Nehru saw a PM in Atal Bihari Vajpayee who returned favour as foreign minister

ALSO WATCH | So Shayari: Shashi Tharoor's English coaching classes

====== 193 ========

BOTTLE BEFORE THROTTLE: DO INDIAN PILOTS HAVE A DRINKING PROBLEM?

India has a zero tolerance policy for alcohol levels in pilots' blood (Getty photo for representation)

The Maharaja had a bad Sunday. Alcohol was involved.

Let us explain.

This weekend, one of Air India's most senior pilots was found to be too drunk to fly his flight, a long-haul service to London.

Right when this senior pilot was being declared unfit to fly (this, by the way, was the second time he was caught drunk before a flight), an Air India plane that had already taken off was recalled to the Delhi airport after ground staff realised that one of the pilots had 'missed' his mandatory pre-flight breathalyser test.

Both the pilots have been grounded. Captain Arvind Kathpalia, the senior pilot caught drunk for the second time, cannot fly for the next three years.

Air India, the embattled national carrier known to have some of the most experienced pilots, has managed -- once again -- to get some really bad press.

But, is the problem really that bad? Are Indian pilots -- especially those flying Air India -- essentially drunkards who -- as aviation agencies in the West like to say -- hit the bottle before the throttle?

The numbers certainly make for alarming headlines.

Flight path of the Air India plane that had to return to Delhi because of one of its pilots forgot to take his mandatory pre-flight alcohol test (Photo courtesy: Flightradar24)

At least 12 Air India pilots have already been caught drunk before their flights just this year. In October, Air India told India Today TV that 10 of its pilots had been caught drunk before flights.

Add the two pilots from Sunday and that number goes to 12. And, the year isn't over yet.

Speaking broadly, more than two dozen pilots have been found to be drunk before flights in the last few years.

In July 2016, the Ministry of Civil Aviation told Parliament that almost 100 pilots -- across all Indian airlines -- were found drunk in a three-year period between 2013 and 2015 (43 in 2015, 26 in 2014 and 30 in 2013).

We won't blame you if those numbers make you think twice before booking your next flight ticket. But, we would also urge you to consider the following data too.

During the three-year period when nearly 100 pilots were caught drunk before their flights, Indian airlines flew 22,58,544 domestic and international flights (the flight numbers are for financial years 2013-14, 2014-15 and 2015-16).

were caught drunk before their flights, Indian airlines flew 22,58,544 domestic and international flights (the flight numbers are for financial years 2013-14, 2014-15 and 2015-16). That means that during the period there were 45,17,088 pilots (at the rate of two per flight -- the number is likely to be higher because some of these flights will have flown with larger crews) in the air. Of these, only around a 100 were caught drunk. That is a miniscule 0.002 per cent.

But, why do Indian pilots keep getting caught drunk before flights with such frequencies?

Well, you can blame -- or be grateful for -- India's aviation laws, which are among the strictest in the world when it comes to pilots flying drunk.

For example, regulatory body Directorate General of Civil Aviation has an absolute zero-tolerance for pilots being drunk -- there, literally, cannot be a drop of alcohol in the pilots' bodies.

This is tested using breathalysers, which give an indication of how much alcohol is present in pilots' blood.

Even a miniscule Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) reading of 0.01 per cent (which indicates that there is 10 milligram of alcohol for every 100ml of blood) can make a pilot unfit for flying.

By contrast, the legal limit for driving drunk in India is 0.03 i.e. 30mg for every 100ml of blood. Anything over that and you'll be facing a jail term.

Even a 0.01 reading on a breathalyser will make an Indian pilot legally unfit to fly (Reuters photo for representation)

Two pints of light beer should be enough to make you too drunk to drive. But then again, how much alcohol there will be in your blood depends on your body weight, gender and metabolism.

And Indian pilots? Forget pints of beer. They can't risk a teaspoon.

In fact, Indian laws governing pilots' alcohol levels are stricter than those in the West.

The US, for example, allows pilots to fly if their Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) is under 0.04 per cent, which is half the country's limit for drunk driving -- 0.08 per cent

Across the ocean in Europe, the laws are a little stricter. Pilots cannot fly in Europe if their BAC is more than 0.02 per cent

The Indian laws are stricter since they mandate a 12-hour "dry" period between the pilot's last drink and the time he/she steps into a cockpit. In the US and Europe, this "bottle-to-throttle" time separation is shorter -- eight hours

Another crucial difference between laws in the West and here is that the Indian DGCA requires mandatory pre-flight testing of all pilots flying an Indian airline.

Under the stringent laws, pilots have to be tested both before a flight and after a flight. The post-flight check, however, is sometimes done away with on international flights flying to destinations where the airline has no logistical set up to test the pilots' alcohol levels.

However, the tests are mandatorily performed on Indian airlines' pilots who depart from or land on Indian soil. This is the reason the Delhi-Bangkok Air India flight whose pilot "forgot" his pre-flight alcohol test had to return midflight.

The Western countries, on the other hand, carry out random check on pilots flying from their respective soils.

So, do Indian pilots have a drinking problem? Not really.

The instances of Indian pilots getting caught drunk before a flight are examples of an effective preventive system doing what it should be doing: Prevention.

That Air India pilot who forgot his pre-flight test ultimately had to turn back and was punished. Captain Arvind Kathpalia, who is also the director of operations at Air India, wasn't allowed to fly his plane either.

Kathpalia, whose blood alcohol content was measured at 0.07 per cent, will not be allowed near a cockpit for the next three years since this was the second time he was caught drunk before a flight.

Plenty of time to get his blood alcohol levels to zero.

READ | Air India pilots safely land flight in New York after crucial instruments go kaput

READ | Jet Airways pilots suspended for take-off attempt from taxiway in Riyadh

READ | Drunk baggage handler falls asleep in cargo hold. Wakes up 700 miles away

WATCH | Inside visuals of Jet Airways flight that saw drop in cabin pressure

====== 194 ========

NETIZENS UNITE TO COLLECT RS 16 LAKH IN JUST 6 HOURS FOR MINOR'S SURGERY

A 2-and-a-half-year-old girl hasn't yet taken her first steps. With her right leg covered in a thick bandage, the girl smiles candidly from ear to ear as her grandfather tells her story in a viral post.

Arushi is suffering from Congenital Pseudarthrosis of the Tibia. A simple Google search will tell you that CPT refers to nonunion of a tibial fracture that develops spontaneously or after a minor trauma. A pseudarthrosis is defined as a "false joint" and is a break in the bone that fails to heal on its own.

The surgery and post-operation medical care will cost Rs 16 lakh. The bandage on her leg may have restricted Arushi in some way but it hasn't been able to break her smile or the spirit of her 78-year-old grandfather, who along with her wife, has knocked on every possible door for help.

Arushi has a twin brother, a grandmother and a grandfather. Arushi's mother passed away while giving birth to the children. During the delivery, she started bleeding heavily and had to be operated. She couldn't make it. Within 20 days, Arushi's father passed away, too, leaving the twins with the grandparents.

Arushi | Photo: Facebook/Humans of Bombay

"These kids were left without a mother. Our son was so lost -- it's like he'd lost a part of his soul. And within 20 days of losing his wife -- he passed away. He left behind his children and us... they'll never know their parents," recalls Arushi's grandfather to Humans of Bombay, that tells a commoner's story as it is on their Facebook page.

"When Arushi turned a year old, her uncle noticed a bend in her leg. We took her to the doctor and he told us that she's suffering from Congenital Pseudarthrosis -- it can lead to a lot of fractures and only get worse in the future. She's 2 and a half, and she hasn't even taken her first steps because she can't walk. We're terrified. We don't even know what to do." - he adds.

Arushi's grandfather worked as a havaldar (constable) for 20 years in Satara (Maharashtra). He earned Rs 3,000 a month in which he raised three children and ran his household.

"I'm 78 now, while my wife is 70. I thought this would be the age where I would play with my grandchildren, not run behind trusts to give us money for their surgery," he says.

"All of them have told us that her surgery doesn't fall under the 'rules. I feel helpless, what do I do? I need to save my granddaughter. I know my son would do anything for her if he'd been alive. His kids are all we have left of him I need to save her." - he adds.

While sharing Arushi's story with the world through Facebook, Humans of Bombay also set up a fundraiser for her surgery. As Arushi's story reached thousands of people all over the world, it also united them to come forward and help contribute for her surgery.

In just 6 hours, over 980 donors raised Rs 16 lakh.

This is how folks on the Internet united to raise fund for Arushi so she and her family could have a bright Diwali.

Also read | This woman fought for 7 years to become a pilot. Her story is now winning the internet

====== 195 ========

DELHI TRAFFIC POLICE OFFICIALS SAVE LIFE OF INFANT FOUND ABANDONED IN BUSHES

The staff of Delhi Traffic Police saved the life of a newly-born girl.

She was found abandoned in the bushes near RK Khanna Tennis Stadium in the Capital.

On October 31, head constable Anil, constable Amar Singh and constable Parveen were on their job near the stadium on Africa Avenue Road.

At around 4 pm they heard a baby crying and the sounds came from the bushes near RK Khanna Tennis Stadium. They also noticed that some stray dogs were roaming around the spot. They got suspicious and they immediately stopped checking the traffic and rushed towards the bushes.

Delhi Traffic Police officials rushed to the spot upon hearing a baby crying | Photo courtesy: Tanseem Haider

They found an abandoned baby there. Immediately, Delhi Police Control Room was informed and the baby was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital for immediate medical care.

The baby is doing fine now. An FIR was registered at Safdarjung police station while the Delhi Traffic Police officials are being suitably rewarded.

Read more on Delhi and police:

Delhi air hostess death: Anissia Batra's in-laws taken into police custody

Delhi Metro to ply 21 more trains for cleaner air

====== 196 ========

MEET THE 11-YEAR-OLD BOY WHO TEACHES BTECH, MTECH STUDENTS IN HYDERABAD

Ali visits an institute to teach BTech and MTech students in Hyderabad | Photo from Twitter: ANI

An 11-year-old boy is giving lessons to BTech and MTech students in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh.

Schoolkid Mohammed Hassan Ali is a wonder boy who teaches students much older to him who are pursuing engineering at bachelor's and master's level.

Ali is a Class 7 student. He does not charge any fees for the lessons he gives to college students. Ali wants to teach a thousand engineers by the end of 2020.

Since my area of interest is designing, I started learning and teaching the same: Mohammed Hassan Ali | Photo from Twitter: ANI

Like many other boys of his age, Ali goes to school and occupies himself with sports and studies till six in the evening. Post 6 pm he dons his wonder-boy cloak and teaches students twice his age at a coaching institute.

"I have been doing this since last year. I go to school in the morning and I come back home by 3 pm. I play and do my homework. By 6 pm, I'm ready to go to the teaching institute to share lessons with civil, mechanical and electronics students." ANI quoted Mohammed Hassan Ali as saying

HE FOUND HIS DRIFT

The 11-year-old kid has his reasons for doing what he does. Ali had apparently come across a video on the internet in which he saw qualified Indian engineers doing odd jobs in foreign countries.

"I was watching a video on the internet about Indians doing odd jobs in foreign countries even after studying. That is when it struck me that what is it our engineers lack? I realised it is primarily technical and communication skills that they are not well aware of. Since my area of interest is designing, I started learning and teaching the same." - Mohammed Hassan Ali

STUDENTS' TESTIMONIALS

"I have been coming here [institute] for a month-and-a-half to learn civil software. He is younger to all of us here but manages to teach quite well. He is skillful and good at what he teaches and it is also easy to comprehend." - G Sushma, civil engineer and a student of Ali

"I am an MTech graduate and have been here for a month. He [Hassan] teaches many subjects. He is good at his job." - Sai Revthi, another student at his institute

The youngster said that he has been doing all of this for a year now and internet has been his learning resource. He added that he wants to do something for the country. He teaches designing and drafting to 30 civil, mechanical and electrical engineering students.

====== 197 ========

HASHIMPURA MASSACRE: A TIMELINE

More than a hundred people died in the riots that preceded the events of May 22, 1987.

The following is the chronology of events relating to 1987 Hashimpura Massacre case leading up to the Delhi High Court on Wednesday sentencing 16 ex-policemen to life imprisonment for killing 42 people of a minority community in Uttar Pradesh.

The killings of 42 Muslim men took place during a riot in Meerut in 1987 when the victims were picked up from the Hashimpura neighbourhood by the 41st Battalion of the PAC during a search operation.

May 22, 1987

50 Muslims picked up by the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) personnel from Hashimpura village in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh.

Victims later shot and bodies thrown into a canal. 42 persons declared dead.

1988

UP government orders CB-CID probe in the case.

February 1994

CB-CID submits inquiry report indicting over 60 PAC and police personnel of all ranks.

May 20, 1996

Charge sheet filed against 19 accused before Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ghaziabad by CB-CID of Uttar Pradesh police. 161 people listed as witnesses.

September 2002

Case transferred to Delhi by the Supreme Court on a petition by the families of victims and survivors.

July 2006

Delhi court frames charges of murder, attempt to murder, tampering with evidence and conspiracy under the IPC against 17 accused.

March 8, 2013

Trial court dismisses Subramanian Swamy's plea seeking probe into the alleged role of P Chidambaram, then Minister of State for Home, in the matter.

January 22, 2015

Trial court reserves judgement.

March 21, 2015

Court acquits 16 surviving accused giving them benefit of doubt regarding their identity.

May 18, 2015

Trial court decision challenged in the Delhi HC by the victims' families and eyewitnesses who survived the incident.

May 29, 2015

HC issues notice to the 16 PAC personnel on Uttar Pradesh government's appeal against the trial court verdict.

December 2015

National Human Rights Commission is impleaded in the matter. NHRC also seeks further probe into the massacre.

February 17, 2016

HC tags Swamy's appeal with the other petitions in the matter.

September 6, 2018

Delhi HC reserves verdict in the case.

October 31, 2018

Delhi HC convicts 16 former PAC personnel for life after finding them guilty of the murder of 42 people.

Read our special coverage on the Hashimpura massacre

Hashimpura massacre: Victims await justice

Meerut comes to the boil again a year after the bloody communal carnage, govt does nothing

Devastating communal riots sweep through Meerut and its adjoining areas

Also watch: Who's responsible for Hashimpura massacre?

====== 198 ========

CHINA LIFTS 25-YEAR-OLD BAN ON USE OF TIGER BONE, RHINO HORNS

China lifted the ban on use of tiger and rhino bones and allowed the use of the endangered species remains for medicinal use. (Photo: Reuters)

China has lifted the ban on the use of tiger and rhino bones for medicinal uses. The ban was imposed back in 1993 to save the endangered species across the globe.

The move came to light a day after WWF had recently tweeted that about 60 per cent of the animals on the Earth has been wiped out by humans.

"Under the special circumstances, regulation on the sales and use of these products will be strengthened, and any related actions will be authorized, and the trade volume will be strictly controlled," the cabinet statement said.

Tiger bone and rhino horns are used in traditional Chinese medicine and are used to treat insomnia and gout.

Tiger bone crushed in powder form. (Photo: Reuters)

An estimated 3,890 tigers remain alive in the wild while studies put the population of wild rhinos at less than 30,000.

With only around 3,900 left in the wild, every tiger counts. But China’s latest move to lift the ban on tiger bone trade threatens to put a dark cloud over the world’s wild WWF (@WWF) October 29, 2018

Also read: Hunt for man-eating tiger Avni sparks chorus for presidential pardon

====== 199 ========

NASA SPACECRAFT SETS RECORD FOR CLOSEST APPROACH TO SUN

Nasa's Parker Solar Probe will keep getting closer to the sun until it flies through the corona, or outer atmosphere, for the first time next week, passing within 15 million miles (24 million kilometers) of the solar surface. (Photo: Reuters)

Nasa's Parker Solar Probe is now closer to the sun than any spacecraft has ever gotten.

Parker on Monday surpassed the record of 26.6 million miles (43 million kilometers) set by Helios-2 back in 1976. And it will keep getting closer to the sun until it flies through the corona, or outer atmosphere, for the first time next week, passing within 15 million miles (24 million kilometers) of the solar surface.

Parker Solar Probe sits in a clean room on July 6, 2018, at Astrotech Space Operations in Titusville, Florida, after the installation of its heat shield. (Photo: AP)

Parker will make 24 close approaches to the sun over the next seven years, ultimately coming within just 3.8 million miles (6 million kilometers).

Launched in August, Parker is on track to set another record late Monday night. It will surpass Helios-2's speed record of 153,454 miles per hour (247,000 kilometers per hour), relative to the sun.

Also read: Nasa's FOXSI mission to study Sun using X-ray vision

Also read: Nasa set to fly car-sized spacecraft into sun's corona

====== 200 ========

VIRAL VIDEO: TIGER CHASES TOURIST VEHICLE INSIDE TADOBA ANDHARI TIGER RESERVE

A video went viral from the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra. Here, the tigress is in hot pursuit of a tourist vehicle on a jungle trail. At one point, she appears to be just metres away.

====== 201 ========

GOOD NEWS OF THE DAY: WOMEN OUTNUMBER MEN IN CHHATTISGARH VOTING

Women came out in large numbers to exercise their right to vote in first phase of Chhattisgarh Assembly elections. They defied the call given by the naxals to boycott the elction process. The number of women who cast their votes was more than their male counterparts.

This is our Good news of the day.

====== 202 ========

JUHI PARMAR HAS NO QUALMS ABOUT PLAYING MOM ON-SCREEN

Actress Juhi Parmar, also a mother to a girl, says she doesn't choose her roles according to age, and doesn't mind having on-screen children.

She will be seen playing a mother to a grown-up girl in Tantra, which will premiere next month.

"I have been a part of the industry for two decades and I feel blessed that I am still being offered good work and the most pivotal roles on television. The way I choose my character is not by age, but how pivotal it is to the plot and the character's graph throughout the journey of the show," Juhi said in a statement.

"Also, I'm a mother in real life. Rather than complaining about the age of the character, I am grateful for the variety of work that is coming my way. In fact, in today's day and age, actresses are playing mothers within a few months or a couple of years after starting their career," she added.

She wants to give "variety" to her viewers through her work.

Also read: Juhi Parmar and Sachin Shroff are finally divorced

"As an actor, I want to continue entertaining my viewers but the artiste and entertainer inside me wants to keep doing something new. We all like new beginnings...and so, I want to give my viewers a variety," she said.

Talking about breaking stereotypes, Juhi said: "When I had played Kumkum for seven years, a lot of people told me that with such an innocent face, I would never be able to get a negative role.

"I took that as a challenge. I was not only offered a negative role, but I also got a fabulous feedback for my character in 'Karmaphal Daata Shani'. Now, I am back to playing a positive role in 'Tantra'. The challenge is in breaking these stereotypes and getting into the skin of new characters with every project."

Also read: Juhi Parmar lashes out at ex husband Sachin Shroff: You insulted me and assassinated my character

What attracted her towards this role?

"Swastik (Swastik Productions) is home for me and it's like coming back to family. However, I must say after having played a double role as well as a negative in ...Shani, this role is once again very different.

"Not only have I never done supernatural before, but the intricacies in the relationships which Sumati, my character, shares with each household member are so important, especially with Niyati. Since I am a mother in real life, I really fell in love with Sumati's character and her love and care towards her own children," she said.

====== 203 ========

BIGG BOSS 12 WEEKEND KA VAAR WRITTEN UPDATE: MEGHA SENT TO TORTURE ROOM, CALLS JASLEEN BRAINLESS AND DUMB

Salman Khan kick-started the episode with 'breaking news of this week'. From Sreesanth's slap gate controversy, Surbhi Rana's no more happy club comment to Deepak and Megha's ugly fight, Salman presented his views in his witty style.

Salman showed some visuals of Romil, where he was seen lying down casually and doing absolutely nothing. He advised housemates to pull up their socks and put up a good energetic act in front of the camera every night.

Then Salman tried to mend differences between Karanvir and Dipika. He asked both of them to pour their heart. Dipika admits that she doesn't trust Karanvir at all. When Salman asked the housemates about their changing equations, Surbhi said that Dipika's preference changes according to her needs- every week. She also said that Dipika has only one priority, which is Sreesanth.

He also asked 'Happy club members' as to why they give Somi preference to save her every week and not let her fight for her spot. After discussing this, the Dabangg Khan got into a serious mood. He asked Deepak what chaal-chalan means and reprimanded him for using it against Megha. But at the same time, criticised Megha as well. He told her that she has been unable to find a person in the house due to which she is so hassled that it shows in her behaviour.

He also told her that she was wrong in hurling a shoe and spitting at Deepak. Megha apologised for her actions and reactions and Salman reminds her that she is nominated for eviction directly next week. Salman appreciated Rohit's effort in the task and also reveals that the brain child of this strategy was Karanvir.

Also read: Megha nominated for hurling shoe at Deepak, Rohit sent to jail

Salman asked housemates to give their opinion of Surbhi's decision to send Jasleen to jail. Indirectly, he tells Surbhi that her decision was wrong and she favoured her friends. Then the Fizzy caller of the week called and questioned Megha for calling Rohit a servant of the red team. More so, the caller asked her that what role is she playing in Sree and Dipika's team.

Deepak cries under the blanket and apologises to Megha for the 'chal-chalan' word and for every possible word or action that he has ever used (which must have hurt her). Megha Dhade was then sent to torture room due to majority votes. Salman then announced that Dipika, Deepak and Karanvir are safe from this week's eviction. Angry and irritated Megha, tells Jasleen that she proved that she is brainless and dumb -by taking her name for the torture room. Later, they hug it out.

The contestants who are still in danger are- Srishty, Jasleen, Megha and Rohit.

Also read: Anup Jalota, Shivashish Mishra and Roshmi Banik reunite for a fun-filled night

====== 204 ========

RAGINI MMS RETURNS STAR KARISHMA SHARMA SLAYS IT IN A MONOKINI LIKE A BOSS. SEE PICS

Television actress Karishma Sharma, who made the internet go crazy with her bold scenes in the web series Ragini MMS Returns, is back with another sultry picture.

Karishma posted a picture in a monokini on her Instagram page and captioned it as, "I love that direct shit, tell me what you really want.Clicked by this cutie @anjalivuduta."

The tall, fair and curvaceous actress knows how to grab media attention. The bold and beautiful actress, loves to keep her fans engaged with her 'oh-so-hot' pictures on her social media pages every now and then. She never fails to impress her fans with her comfortable yet classy outfits.

She earned a name for herself with Ekta Kapoor's Yeh Hai Mohababtein as Raina and then later, featured in Ekta's erotic-supernatural web series Ragini MMS.

Karishma has proved time and again that she is a pro, when it comes to facing camera fearlessly and showing off her fit and fab body.

====== 205 ========

BIGG BOSS 12: ANUP JALOTA, SHIVASHISH MISHRA AND ROSHMI BANIK REUNITE FOR A FUN-FILLED NIGHT

Bigg Boss 12's evicted contestants are having ball of a time, ever since they stepped out from the house. Recently, Bhajan samrat Anup Jalota invited co-contestants Shivashish Mishra and Roshmi Banik to his house for a quiet dinner.

They laughed and gossiped the night away talking about BB 12 friends. Roshmi posted pictures of their reunion on her Instagram page and thanked Anup ji for inviting them.

She captioned one of the picture as, "Thanks for the lovely dinner @jalotaanup , you are a super host. Enjoyed a lot like we used to in the BIGG BOSS house with @shivashish_official and @jalotaanup."

She also wrote, "Friends for life @shivashish_official. Dinner at @jalotaanup place. Delicious food, awesome people and BIGG BOSS memories relived. What more can I ask for?? A night to remember."

Also see: Commoner Shivashish Mishra strips off for photo shoot; see pics

BB fans would remember, Roshmi was one of the first contestant to get evicted from the show. While, Anup Jalota's entry and exit- both created a lot of buzz on social media. Anup had left Bigg Boss 12 fans shocked after revealing his secret relationship with 28-year-old singer Jasleen Matharu on the premiere night. And ever since he stepped out from the house, he has not just denied his relationship with Jasleen but also blamed the makers for giving their guru-shishya jodi the romantic twist for their show.

Also read- Anup Jalota: Date with Jasleen was scripted, have suffered financial losses due to Bigg Boss 12

Talking about Shivashish, the handsome lad was kicked out from the house last weekend. For the uninitiated, when Romil was given a special power as a captain, to send three contestants to jail. His first victim was Megha, who reluctantly agreed. However, when he took Shivashish's name, he refused to go to jail as he felt there were bigger culprits than him who deserved the punishment. Bigg Boss asked Shivashish to abide by the rules as this could affect the entire house. As a result, BB asked him to leave the next day.

====== 206 ========

BEPANNAH'S JENNIFER WINGET BIDS ADIEU TO THE SHOW WITH A HEARTFELT NOTE

As television actress Jennifer Winget starrer show Bepannah is going off the air, the actress assured her fans that she will come back soon with something more exciting onscreen.

"...I will be back after a short break with something new and even more exciting so humbly request that you respect that a new beginning follows after every ending. Stay tuned for an all new avataar...," Jennifer wrote on Instagram.

Confirming the end of the show, Jennifer poured out her heart and thanked her fans for giving abundant love to her character of Zoya.

She said: "All good things come to an end and so the curtains will soon fall on our beloved, Bepannaah, you can't help but feel sad together with all fans of the show. The last thing we want is to disappoint you but certain journeys are best short therefore even more meaningful and fulfilling.

"Time really flies by but the love that our fans have bestowed on us has been tremendous all through and overwhelming to say the least... This is bittersweet, but my heart will always belong here."

Also see: Jennifer Winget looks pretty as a peach in this photo shoot. See pics

It has been reported that Jennifer and her co-star Harshad Chopra, shot down the idea of continuing the show on digital platforms, due to which the show is going off the air.

Also read- Daily telly updates: Mishti learns that Kunal is her father in Silsila Badalte Rishton Ka, Anjana goes missing in Bepannaah

The Colors' show, which also starred actors like Namita Dubey, Rajesh Khattar and Shehban Azim, started its journey in March.

====== 207 ========

YEH RISHTA KYA KEHLATA HAI: NEW MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN KARTIK AND NAIRA?

In the upcoming episode of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Naira will find some love letters addressed to someone with the intials K. Naira will doubt Kartik of having an affair. Watch the video to know the truth behind those letters.

====== 208 ========

GUDDAN TUMSE NA HO PAYEGA: AKSHAT TURNS GUDDAN'S SAVIOUR

In the upcoming episode of Guddan Tumse Na Ho Payega, Guddan will be kidnapped. When Akshat will find her whereabouts, goons will beat him and make him unconscious. However, soon he will get up and save Guddan from the goons.

====== 209 ========

ISHQBAAZ'S GAURI AND BHAVYA'S HILARIOUS VIDEO WILL MAKE YOU LOL

Ishqbaaz's Gauri and Bhavya's hilarious video will make you LOL

====== 210 ========

BIGG BOSS 12 WEEKEND KA VAAR PREVIEW: SALMAN REPRIMANDS MEGHA AND DEEPAK

Tonight's episode of Bigg Boss 12 Weekend Ka Vaar will be an explosive one. Host Salman Khan will be seen reprimanding Deepak Thakur and Megha Dhade and will also try to resolve issues that have cropped up between Dipika Kakar and Karanvir Bohra.

Housemates will be asked to rate Romil Chaudhary's captaincy. There will be a life-size cut out of Romil kept in the garden area, where everyone will be called one by one and if they feel Romil failed as a captain then they will have to spray black paint on the cut-out otherwise put a garland on it.

Megha Dhade and Jasleen Matharu will be spray black paint on him and tells that he was not a good captain while Deepak, Surbhi, Somi and Rohit will put a garland on him. Dipika will tell that she wants to continue their enmity so she will spray black paint on him to which Romil says, "Keep you friends close, keep your enemies closer."

Salman Khan will try to resolve issue between Karanvir and Dipika. Dipika will say that she doesn't trust Karanvir at all. When Salman will ask the housemates about the issues between them, Surbhi tell him that Dipika's preference changes according to her needs. She also says that Dipika has only one priority, which is Sreesanth.

After discussing this, the Dabangg Khan will be get into a more serious concern, which is misbehaviour by the contestants. He will ask Deepak what chaat-chalan means and reprimanded him for using it against Megha. But at the same time, will criticise Megha as well. He will tell her that she has been unable to find a place in the house due to which is exasperated, which shows in her behaviour. He also will tell that she was wrong in hurling a shoe and spitting at Deepak.

Megha is chose as the gunehgaar of the week, due to which she is sent to the torture room.

====== 211 ========

DAILY TELLY UPDATES: MISHTI LEARNS THAT KUNAL IS HER FATHER IN SILSILA BADALTE RISHTON KA, ANJANA GOES MISSING IN BEPANNAAH

In Silsila Badalte Rishton Ka, Kunal is desperate to know if Mishti is his daughter and doesn't mind barging in Mauli and Ishaan's engagement party. Aditya is back to being his ruthless self and not caring about anyone's feelings in Bepannaah.

Silsila Badalte Rishton Ka

Ishaan tells Mauli that he can't get engaged to her without Mishtis permission. He calls her his best friend and stress-buster and asks her is she would like to be his daughter. Mishti asks him if he would love her mother and never hurt her. He promises her to never hurt her mother and finally gets a go ahead from Mishti. Kunal follows Pramila and reaches the venue.

Mauli is about to put a ring on Ishaan's finger when a power cut happens. Kunal takes advantage of the situations and drags Yamini to a store room and asks her who is Mishti's father. She tells him there he has lost the right to ask this question and asks him to leave and not spoil Mauli's engagement. Yamini tells her after Kunal left Mauli heartbroken, she adopted Mishti from an orphanage who came as a ray of light in her life.

After electricity is restored, Ishaan makes loving speech for Mauli. Kunal sees this and looks affected. Mauli gets emotional with his speech and gets teary eyes. They exchange rings. Meanwhile, Mishti gets adamant about having he sixth bowl of ice cream. Kunal hears Dida saying that she is just like her father who used to do exactly the same for ice cream. He again drags his mother and asks Mishti is his daughter. Kunal emotionally blackmails her and gets the truth out.

Bepannaah

Aditya is having some work related conversation over phone when Anjana's nurse comes running to him. She tells her Anjana's situation has worsened and shows him how she attacked her with a fork. Instead of sympathising with her, he fires her for doing her work properly. Aditya calls the doctor and tells him about chaning about a dozen nurses in the last six months. The doctor advises him to keep Anjana in hospital but Aditya refuses. Arjun enters his room that has been locked since Zoya left and recalls moments spent with her.

A lot of things changed in the past one year. Zoya and her family permanently shifted to Musoorie while Arjun left Hooda House. Aditya tried to find out whereabouts of Rajveer and his Nani but to no avail. Aditya calls Mili and asks her to take of the delegates as he will be late. Mili seems to have a crush on Aditya. Aditya takes Anjana to hospital and tells her he will soon be back to take her home. Meanwhile, Roshnaq is sad a Noor is shifting to Delhi for her job.

Aditya lashes out at Mili for no reason but when her colleagues criticise him, she doesn't like it. Later at night, Mili gets a call and she rushes to Aditya's cabin. She informs him that Anjana has gone missing from the hospital, which leaves him baffled.

====== 212 ========

BIGG BOSS 12 DAY 68 WRITTEN UPDATE: MEGHA NOMINATED FOR HURLING SHOE AT DEEPAK, ROHIT SENT TO JAIL

Bigg Boss 12 episode starts with Deepak crying after Megha threw a shoe and spat at him. He wants to meet Bigg Boss. Surbhi asks Megha to apologise but she tells her that she spat on the ground. She meets Deepak and she spit on his foot. When he answers in affirmative, she apologises but Deepak is in no mood to forgive.

Seeing no end to their argument Bigg Boss decides to intervene. He criticises Deepak for talking about Megha's chaal-chalan (character) and Megha for hurling shoe at Deepak. As a punishment, BB directly nominates Megha for next week's nominations. As requested by Deepak, he calls him inside the confession room. When Deepak explain he wasn't talking about Megha's character, BB reprimands him and says the word is a Hindi word and means the same everywhere.

Later, Surbhi talks to the camera about Sreesanth and says how she feels he used the slapgate controversy. She feels since the beginning, she hasn't seen any improvement in his behaviour. While interviewing him for the task, she felt he had a selfish motive in talking about the incident and often plays sympathy card to his advantage. After a heart-to-heart conversation with the camera, she goes to where Romil and Deepak are sitting with Srishty. But again she gets into an argument with Romil about Surbhi claiming that there's no happy club anymore.

Next morning, Surbhi distributes work among the housemates. But later housemates feel Sreesanth and Dipika have been assigned less work. When she goes to Dipika to talk about it, Dipika tells her it's okay with them whatever she decides as they made her the captain. Surbhi misunderstands this. She thinks Dipika meant, she made her the captain so she should give them less work. This misunderstanding leads to another fight in the house. Sreesanth again warns to hit Deepak and Rohit and they as usual with Romil make fun of his statement.

Later, Bigg Boss announces a task, which will decide the names of three housemates who will go to kaal-kothri. The only twist is that instead of voting, the process will be decided via an interesting task. In the garden area, earthen pots will be kept with each contestant's name, except Surbhi, as she is the captain for the week. There will be a platform kept near the pots and whoever reaches the platform on the ring of the buzzer, will get the chance to nominate the contestant of their choice. Surbhi got three chances.

Surbhi is the first to fill the pot and she takes Megha's name. Next is Jasleen who fills Rohit's pot. Romil takes Megha's name leading the pot to leak, as a result she is sent to jail. Next two times Surbhi stands on the platform and both the time takes Jasleen's name, who finds it unfair as there were other contestants who were deserved to be punished rather than her. Dipika also gets upset with Surbhi's decision and thinks she is misusing her power. She also says that Surbhi should stop bragging about being unbiased because even she plays mind games. Romil feels bad when he sees Jasleen crying inside the jail.





After the drama, the task continued. Deepak takes Dipika's name followed by Karanvir and she is sent to jail. Later in the night, Srishty is not well. Rohit steals an Appy Fizz for her but soon the whole house is summoned in the living area. Rohit is sent to jail for breaking rules and Surbhi is asked to bring one contestant out of the jail. She takes Dipika's name and Rohit locks Rohit inside the jail. Both Megha and Jasleen make fun of him.

====== 213 ========

RAHUL MAHAJAN ON THIRD MARRIAGE: MY PREVIOUS MARRIAGES HAPPENED IN A HURRY

Rahul Mahajan has got third time lucky. The Bigg Boss star and son of former Union Minister Pramod Mahajan got married to Kazakhstan model Natalya Ilina on November 20 in a low-key ceremony in Mumbai. The reality TV star wanted to keep the wedding low-profile this time due to the controversies surrounding his previous marriages.

"I wanted to keep the marriage low-key. In fact, I didn't want to talk about it for at least one year as this is my third marriage and I don't want people to start gossiping again. I was planning to inform everyone about it on my first wedding anniversary, but clearly, that did not happen," he told The Times of India.

Before Natalya, Rahul was married to pilot Shweta Singh and reality TV star Dimpy Ganguly. Both his marriages ended with accusations of domestic violence. His first wife Shweta was his childhood friend and the two knew each other for 13 years. She had accused him of physically abusing her. The couple got separated in December 2007, and were granted divorce in 2008.

"My previous two marriages happened in a hurry. There was no time to think and though both Shweta and Dimpy are wonderful individuals, we were not not compatible. Over the last few years, I realised that I don't want to be in a relationship for the sake of it. I don't want to be with someone where there is no way forward. With Natalya, I discovered true companionship and also, there's no room for long arguments or differences between us."

Rahul says his dulhaniya is interested in exploring his culture and is finding out more about Hinduism by reading scriptures.

"She showed interest in Hinduism and it was her decision to follow it. She wears the mangalsutra and is also reading our holy books and scriptures. I am looking forward to new beginnings," he told the paper.

Also read: Here's what Rahul Mahajan's ex-wife Dimpy Ganguly has to say about his third marriage

====== 214 ========

HERE'S WHAT RAHUL MAHAJAN'S EX-WIFE DIMPY GANGULY HAS TO SAY ABOUT HIS THIRD MARRIAGE

Former Bigg Boss contestant Rahul Mahajan, 43, got married to Kazakhstan model Natalya Ilina, 25, on Tuesday, November 20 in a private ceremony. Their wedding news has gone viral on social media. This is Rahul's third marriahe. He was earlier married to pilot Shweta Singh and reality TV star Dimpy Ganguly.

Dimpy, who is now leading happy married life with husband and daughter reacted to Rahul's wedding. She spoke to SpotBoye.com and wished him well. When she was informed about his third marriage, she laughed but later congratulated the couple. She said, "I am glad to know that! And hope he really finds happiness this time around... like I have done. Many Congratulations to the newlyweds."

Dimpy Ganguly, who is currently in France, further added that she hopes Natalya isn't subjected to domestic violence."People can change you know. For the sake of both, I really hope all that doesn't happen. It's the worst thing one can do to another," she said.

Both marriages of Rahul Mahajan ended with accusations of domestic violence. His first wife Shweta was his childhood friend and the two knew each other for 13 years. She had accused him of physically abusing her. The couple got separated in December 2007, and were granted divorce in 2008.

In the same year, Rahul Mahajan participated in Bigg Boss 8, where closer to grand finale, he tried to escape the house and was thrown out of the show. He was linked to starlets like Payal Rohatgi and Monica Bedi on Bigg Boss.

Rahul Mahajan got married to Dimpy Ganguly on national TV in 2010 on reality show Rahul Dulhaniya Le Jaayega. The couple got divorced four years later on February 25, 2014, after his second wife accused him of kicking, punching and beating her up.

Also read : Bigg Boss star Rahul Mahajan, 43, ties the knot with 25-year-old model

====== 215 ========

YEH MERI FAMILY DIRECTOR SAMEER SAXENA PART OF 46TH INTERNATIONAL EMMYS JURY

Sameer Saxena, Chief Content Officer and Head of The Viral Fever Originals, will represent India on the eminent jury of the 46th International Emmy Awards that celebrate excellence in International television.

In his capacity, Saxena was part of the judging panel in the International Emmy Awards, said a statement.

About being part of the process for the first time, he said: "It's an honour and privilege to attend the gala among widely respected artists and executives from around the global entertainment industry. Being a juror here is a moment of pride for us at TVF, and an experience for me to broaden my horizons about storytelling and programming."

The International Emmy Awards are the premier awards for entertainment on TV and the Jury panels typically comprise persons from diverse professions who exemplify the latest trends and new frontiers in television and digital programming.

Saxena has created and directed super-hit web-series such as Permanent Roommates (Season 1 and 2), TVF Tripling and most recently, Yeh Meri Family. He is currently working on the second season of "Tripling".

With over 15 years of experience in direction, Saxena began his career in consulting in 2002 and has since then worked with some of the most reputed names in the industry, such as White Tiger Productions and Endemol India where he directed Bigg Boss Season 6.

The International Emmy Awards is an annual event organised by The International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. It is a membership based organization comprising leading media and entertainment figures from over 60 countries and 500 companies from all sectors of television including Internet, mobile and technology.

====== 216 ========

ISHQBAAZ'S GAURI AKA SHRENU PARIKH STUNS IN HER BRIDAL AVATAR

Shrenu Parikh who plays Gauri in TV show Ishqbaaz makes for a gorgeous bride during a photo shoot. She is seen donning four different bridal avatars and looks absolutely stunning.

====== 217 ========

YEH HAI MOHABBATEIN TO GO OFF AIR, TO RETURN WITH NEW SEASON

Ekta Kapoor's popular daily soap Yeh Hai Mohabbatein is all set to go off air in January. According to reports, family drama might return with new season.

====== 218 ========

SILSILA BADALTE RISHTON KA: KUNAL CONFRONTS MAULI ABOUT HIDING MISHTI'S TRUTH

In Silsila Badalte Rishton Ka, things will be difficult for Mauli as Kunal will come to know that he is Mishti's father. He will accuse Mauli of hiding Mishti's truth from him.

====== 219 ========

BIGG BOSS STAR RAHUL MAHAJAN, 43, TIES THE KNOT WITH 25-YEAR-OLD MODEL

Former Bigg Boss contestant Rahul Mahajan, 43, tied the knot with Kazakhstan model Natalya Ilina, 25, on Tuesday, November 20 in a private ceremony. The wedding was a close-knit affair, and took place in a temple in Malabar Hills in Mumbai. It was attended by close family and friends.

Rahul spoke about his private wedding to Natalya Ilina with Mumbai Mirror and said, "I've known Natalya for a year and a half, even though we got close recently. She wants to start her own business, but I'll go with whatever she has decided to do. Family life and peace of mind is important," he adds.

The 43-year-old Bigg Boss contestant is 18 years elder to Natalya Ilina. But the age difference doesn't matter to him as he feels they look good together.

Rahul and Natalya have known each other for a year and a half. Picture courtesy: Twitter

Before Natalya, Rahul was married to pilot Shweta Singh and reality TV star Dimpy Ganguly. Both his marriages ended with accusations of domestic violence. His first wife Shweta was his childhood friend and the two knew each other for 13 years. She had accused him of physically abusing her. The couple got separated in December 2007, and were granted divorce in 2008.

In the same year, Rahul Mahajan participated in Bigg Boss 8, where closer to grand finale, he tried to escape the house and was thrown out of the show. He was linked to starlets like Payal Rohatgi and Monica Bedi on Bigg Boss.

Rahul Mahajan got married to Dimpy Ganguly on national TV in 2010 on reality show Rahul Dulhaniya Le Jaayega. The couple got divorced four years later on February 25, 2014, after his second wife accused him of kicking, punching and beating her up.

====== 220 ========

WILLING TO FORGIVE, BUT SHOW SOME REMORSE: VINTA NANDA TO ALOK NATH

Vinta Nanda says she is willing to forgive Alok Nath if he shows remorse.

With an FIR for rape lodged against actor Alok Nath, writer-director Vinta Nanda says she is "willing to forgive" but "show some remorse, repentance", so she knows he will never violate another woman again.

Vinta is still willing to forgive Alok if he apologises. "I was never in this for revenge. I want correction, not revenge. Show some remorse, show some sign of repentance.

"Let me know that no other woman would be violated by you the way I was. All I see right now is an attitude of defiance and shamelessness. If that's the way it is going to be, then I'll see my fight for justice to the end."

About taking the battle legal, she said: "Actually the FIR was lodged on Tuesday. The media got wind of it on Wednesday morning and all hell broke loose. And I mean that in a good way.

"If it wasn't for the media my fight for justice would never have come so far. I am lucky to have such invaluable support from my friends, my family and from the media who have pitched in their trust behind my fight."

"I feel blessed," said Vinta.

But is she ready for a long lonely legal battle ahead?

"Firstly, it's not a lonely battle. I have my mother, family and several close friends with me. As for the legal battle ahead I am very well armed and equipped.

Also read | CINTAA to send notice to Alok Nath, Sushant Singh extends full support to writer-producer



"Three of the brightest young lawyers of Mumbai -- Dhruti Kapadia, Faranaaz Kharbhari and Kunal Tiwari -- are fighting my case free of cost. They believe in my fight.

"Today I can dare to face a legal battle without fearing the financial burden," the 48-year-old said.

She feels what the #MeToo movement has done is awaken the nation's conscience to their responsibilities as citizens.

"There is just no room or tolerance for inappropriate behaviour any more," she said, adding that her fight for justice is not her own.

"There are so many women out there who have been raped, molested, harassed, eve-teased.

"Men who thought troubling women was their birthright have been forced to reconsider their patriarchal definitions of gender relations.

"What seemed 'normal' to them earlier will land them in serious trouble now. And they know it. That's the difference."

Vinta is surprised at how Alok Nath refuses to acknowledge the wrong he has done. "He is brazening it out when he should have apologised. Instead he got his wife to speak on his behalf. That is so sad.

"In our society women still feel like standing by their husbands -- no matter how wrong they are -- is their dharma. Men take advantage of this unconditional spousal support," she added.

====== 221 ========

MERI AASHIQUI TUM SE HI'S SMRITI KHANNA IS RAISING HEAT IN BLACK BIKINI, SEE PIC

Actress Smriti Khanna who got married to her Meri Meri Aashiqui Tum Se Hi co-star Gautam Gupta is currently holidaying in Bali. The couple are there to ring-in their first anniversary.

The couple has been traveling extensively for the past couple of months. They've visited Rome, Florence, Croatia, Paris, and Maldives.

Recently Smriti shared a picture of herself where she is flaunting her curves in black bikini from Bali. The actress slayed it in the beach look.

Smriti Khanna flaunts her perfect curves in black bikini. Picture courtesy: Instagram/Smriti_khanna

Smriti and Gautam starred together in Ekta Kapoor's family drama Meri Aashiqui Tum Se Hi. Their sweet love story began from the sets and gradually they became fond of each other. Gautam proposed to her in Goa and she agreed to it. Soon, they tied the knot in 2017 and their grand wedding was attended by family and close friends from the industry.

Smriti, who quite active on social media keeps posting mushy pictures of themselves on her page.

====== 222 ========

BIGG BOSS 12 UNSEEN: DEEPAK THAKUR IS OVER SOMI. MEET HIS NEW CRUSH

Bigg Boss 12 unseen: Deepak Thakur can't take his eyes off this housemate. Surbhi Rana teases him.

After trying his best to woo Somi Khan, Deepak Thakur seems to have finally gotten over her. In fact, the Bigg Boss 12 contestant has now set his eyes on another housemate, as observed by Surbhi Rana.

It's none other than the handsome lad Rohit Suchanti who has been impressing girls with his cute looks ever since he entered the house.

In an unseen video, the actor goes shirtless to take a dip in the swimming pool, and Deepak can't take his eyes off him. His contestant staring prompts Surbhi to tease him saying he has shifted his loyalties to Rohit now.

Deepak and Rohit's romantic performance on Gerua song impressed Farah Khan in the last Weekend Ka Vaar episode, and it seems Deepak has taken his act too seriously.

This week, Deepak, Rohit are among the nominated contestants along with Dipika, Jasleen, Megha, Srishty and Karanvir. Sreesanth, Somi, Surbhi and Romil are safe from elimination.



Also read: Bigg Boss 12 Day 65 written update: Sreesanth, Dipika break down after Rohit's betrayal



Bigg Boss 12: Sreesanth's wife Bhuvneshwari supports Dipika Kakar, says her reactions were justified

Also read: Bigg Boss 12 Day 64 preview: Somi flirts with Rohit, Dipika refuses to make sacrifice in nomination task

====== 223 ========

KITANI MOHABBAT HAI STAR KRITIKA KAMRA ENGAGED, HERE'S THE TRUTH

Indian TV actress Kritika Kamra reportedly got engaged in to boyfriend Uday Singh Giri in a secret ceremony.

Entertainment portals carried the news and claimed that the actress was engaged two weeks back in a hush-hush ceremony, which was attended by close family and friends.

However, the Kitani Mohabbat Hai actress has rubbished the reports. Krtika spoke to SpotBoye.com and said, "I am not engaged. Happy happenings are meant to be proudly declared. Why would I hide it if I had got engaged? Whenever I get engaged, I shall announce it."

Kritika Kamra with Uday Singh Giri. Picture courtesy: Instagram

Kritika has been in a relationship with Uday, who is the CEO of a talent management company for quite some time. They are often seen partying together but neither of the two have ever confirmed their relationship.

Earlier, Kritika was rumoured to be in a relationship with her Mitron co-star Jackky Bhagnani. Kritika was last seen on TV in Life OK's Chandrakanta.

====== 224 ========

SAATH NIBHAANA SAATHIYA ACTRESS FIROZA KHAN AKA KINJAL GETS ENGAGED TO HER BOYFRIEND

Television actress Firoza Khan, who is best known from her role of Kinjal in Saath Nibhana Saathiya, recently got engaged to her boyfriend Sohel Khandwani. They have been in a relationship for almost two years now.

She recently shared the news on her Instagram page, with an adorable picture of themselves. Firoza captioned it as, "I'm so ready for our future together.. @sohelllllllllll I love you."

Also, while talking to Times Of India she said, "Yes, Sohel and I have got engaged and I was looking forward to sharing this news to my fans on a special day. And since it’s my birthday today, I thought this was the best time to announce the same. I am extremely happy and on cloud nine. I have got the man of my dreams. Our families had met and we had decided to get married a few months ago itself. But I was not wanting to let out the news really early as I was afraid it could bring bad omen to my relationship. We are all set to get married next year, in the initial months itself and I cannot wait for my big day."

Also read: Devoleena Bhattacharjee sets the internet on fire with throwback bikini photos. See pics

"Sohel is situated out of Dubai and I too have shifted here a few months ago. We have been dating for one and a half years and this February 14th shall complete two years of our official relationship. We were very good friends earlier and love gradually happened. I was the one who proposed to him," she said.

====== 225 ========

PRATYUSHA BANERJEE'S EX-BOYFRIEND RAHUL RAJ SINGH TIES THE KNOT WITH SALONI SHARMA

Late actress Pratyusha Banerjee's ex boyfriend Rahul Raj Singh, who was accused of abetment of the actress' suicide, has finally moved on in life. He recently tied the knot with actress Saloni Sharma.

He confirmed the news on social media by posting his wedding picture with Saloni and captioned it as, "Today on this auspicious day, we have got married to each other and promised a life of love, togetherness and lots of fun to each other! Please give us all your blessings and love as we begin this new chapter in our life!!! P.S.More pics coming up...Hubby&Wifey#Shaadi Time!# NovemberCouple#HitchedforLife!#

They got married yesterday in Mumbai. While talking to Bombay Times he said, "We had already decided that we would tie the knot by the end of this year; something that I announced on my birthday in June. It's just that we zeroed in on the date only recently. The wedding happened according to Hindu rituals amidst those who love us and care for us. It wasn't a hush-hush marriage at all. I just wanted to keep it private with only family in attendance. I am now inviting close friends for a cocktail party in the evening."

"We registered our marriage in the morning, followed by Ganpati puja according to Hindu rituals," said Rahul.

Also read: #MeToo: He grabbed my head and started unbuttoning me, Rahul Raj accuses Mushtaq Sheikh of sexual harassment

In May this year, Rahul had announced his wedding with Saloni Sharma.

He had shared pictures of his birthday party with a long note. He wrote, "It has been a long year for me. One which had many ups and downs, several highs and several lows but like they say - what does not kill you only makes you stronger. On my Birthday today, I would like to wish every single person who came, who wished me, who called and messaged, and even those who didn't!! Thanks so much!! And of course A Very Happy Birthday to Me!!! 1This is my year and I will come out with positivity and hopefully with a lot of success! A special thanks to my dear Saloni Sharma@onlysimkie...my soon to be wife and partner for life...u have been there when no one could!! Loved all the surprises!! THANK YOU BAPI MA FOR THE WONDERFUL VIDEO! Thank you to my dear family for giving birth to me so I can celebrate this day!! Thank you Raj and Tanya for your midnight visit! Thank you Rahul Dwivedi for your creativity...Thank you Bablu and Dharmendra for being there smiling and dancing...Thank uuuu! Muah!"

Before Pratyusha, Rahul was in a relationship with Saloni from 2011-2015 after which he started dating the TV actress. Rahul and Pratyusha often fought over Saloni, but she on the other hand blamed Pratyushha for coming between her and Rahul.

====== 226 ========

CHAHATT KHANNA MAKES SHOCKING SEXUAL AND MENTAL ABUSE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST HUSBAND

Bade Acche Lagte Hain actress Chahatt Khanna has filed for a divorce from husband Farhan Mirza about a month back. The actress who confirmed about her separation in August got married to Farhan in 2013. The couple have two daughters - Zohar and Amaira. Earlier Chahatt never opened up about the issues in their marriage. However, recently the actress made shocking revelations.

Chahatt spoke to Bombay Times about how she was stuck in an unhappy marriage with Farhan and leaving him wasn't an overnight decision. She also said that she wants a divorce but her husband is determined to not give her one. She is not ready to stay with him at any cost.

The actress also accused Farhan of sexual and mental abuse. She revealed, "It was not just sexual abuse, I went through financial and mental abuse, too. The atmosphere in the house was driving me crazy. He would accuse me of prostitution and having an affair with a co-actor. He would make surprise visits on the set of my show (Qubool Hai) and create a fuss when I had to hug or even hold hands with my co-actor on screen. Once, he threw a fit after I received an invite for the same co-actor's housewarming party; he concluded that I was dating him."

While speaking to the daily, Chahatt narrated an incident that made her feel that Farhan was least bothered about her. She asked Farhan to take her to a doctor after she felt unbearable pain in her breasts. After consulting their family doctor, Chahatt was advised to do sonomammography. But, Farhan ignored her pain. She adds, "When the pain didn't alleviate the following day, I pleaded with him to take me to the doctor. However, without showing any concern for my health woes, he told me that he wanted to have sex with me and made sure that he did. That's when I felt that he wouldn't care even if I died. But I had to live and be fine for my daughters. Then, I started finding out more about domestic violence. Since he would skim through my phone and internet history, he got to know about it and became alert."

She also claimed of being slut-shamed and manhandled by Farhan during fights. He even tried to separated her from her family, after which Chahatt's parents asked her to leave her husband.

Also read: Bade Acche Lagte Hai actress Chahatt Khanna Mirza requests privacy amidst separation rumours

====== 227 ========

KASAUTII ZINDAGII KAY 2 STAR ERICA FERNANDES BUYS A NEW HOUSE

Erica Fernandes is now a proud owner of a new house in Mumbai.

Everyone dreams of owning a house. Looks like actress Erica Fernandes fulfilled her dream. Erica, who is currently seen in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2 as Prerna recently shared her happiness on social media.

The pretty actress shared a image of herself with the house keys and captioned it, "Keys to my new house."

In the picture, Erica looks stunning in a sari with a big bindi on her forehead. She is all smiles in the picture.

Erica is currently seen in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2 opposite Parth Samthaan. She is being appreciated for her portrayal of Prerna. Erica made her debut on small screen opposite Shaheer Sheikh in Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi and her fans loved her as Sonakshi aka Sona.

The 25-year-old actress multi-faceted. The telly beauty can act, is a successful blogger, is good at baking and singing.

====== 228 ========

MISSING KOMOLIKA? THESE BREATHTAKING PICS OF HINA KHAN WILL CHEER YOU UP

Caption:

In between all the things that are happening in her life, Hina doesn't forget to take out time for beau Rocky. She met him for the first time on the sets of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai where he was a supervising producer and she played the lead role of Akshara.

====== 229 ========

BEFORE THEIR WEDDING, KAPIL SHARMA AND GINNI CHATRATH'S LOVE STORY IN PICS

Caption:

The comedian is excited about the new phase of his life. “Back then, we had decided that we would get married but due to my hectic schedule, we couldn’t lock a date. My mum stays in Amritsar and worries about me. Now that I am getting married, I think it was destined. I feel marriage is an essential part in our lives as it brings stability. Then the next phase is parenthood, which is another important step in a person’s life. I have seen people change after marriage, as they want to go home to be with their wives or kids. I want to experience it all as well. Being a bachelor, having your fun is good but only for a while. Later, it becomes routine and then you look for stability. I feel marriage is the best thing to happen to me," he said.

====== 230 ========

SHOAIB-DIPIKA TO ROCKY-HINA: 5 TV COUPLES WHO STOOD FOR EACH OTHER ON SOCIAL MEDIA LIKE A ROCK

Caption:

Naagin 3 actress Anita Hassanandani and her hubby Rohit Reddy's love and admiration for each other is quite evident from their posts on social media. When Anita was trolled for her age and body-shamed by haters, her darling husband stood for her and shut them all for once with an absolutely great reply. He had posted on his Instagram page, "My look, when i come across somebody-shaming comments on my wifey! While u r talking abt her broad waist... i am just stuck here wondering about that narrow mind of urs, b*^#*!"

====== 231 ========

SHIVASHISH MISHRA TO PRIYANKA JAGGA: THESE CONTESTANTS WERE THROWN OUT OF BIGG BOSS

Caption:

Swami Om is one of the most controversial contestant in the history of Bigg Boss. From passing derogatory comments against women to getting physical, he has done it all. He was thrown out by the makers after he peed on national television during one of the tasks.

====== 232 ========

SHAMA SIKANDER WORKOUT PICS WILL INSPIRE YOU TO HIT THE GYM RIGHT NOW. SEE PICS

Caption:

Recently, Shama had shared a horrifying sexual harassment encounter with her fans and media. She had revealed how she was molested by a director when she was only 14-years-old.

====== 233 ========

IN PICS: DELHI'S FIRST PRIDE PARADE AFTER SECTION 377 VERDICT IS ALL ABOUT LOVE AND LIBERATION

At the 11th edition of Delhi Queer Pride Parade, thousands walked from Barakhamba Road to Tolstoy Marg on the warm Sunday afternoon. (PTI photo)

The first pride parade after the Supreme Court verdict on Section 377 was a celebration of love, newfound independence and a riot of colours on the streets of Delhi.

This was the first pride parade in Delhi after the Supreme Court verdict on Section 377. (PTI photo)

With happy faces and bodies swaying to drum beats, rainbow revellers took over the heart of Delhi and celebrated 'pride', two months after the Supreme Court quashed the colonial-era law that criminalised homosexuality.

Thousands walked from Barakhamba Road to Tolstoy Marg in central Delhi on Sunday. (PTI photo)

At the 11th edition of Delhi Queer Pride Parade, thousands walked from Barakhamba Road to Tolstoy Marg on the warm Sunday afternoon, spreading cheer and colour.

With happy faces and bodies swaying to drum beats, the Delhi Pride Parade was a grand affair on Sunday. (PTI photo)

The parade celebrated the identity and sexuality of the LGBTQ+ community and its allies as they walked with a renewed purpose to work towards the goals of a stronger community.

The Delhi leg of the pride parade is organised every last Sunday of November since 2008. (PTI photo)

The Delhi leg of the pride parade is organised every last Sunday of November since 2008 by the Delhi Queer Pride Committee.

The parade celebrated the identity and sexuality of the LGBTQ+ community. (PTI photo)

After the Section 377 verdict the community is now reaching out for a hate crime legislation to recognise all forms of anti-minority violence as punishable offenses.

(With PTI inputs)

====== 234 ========

MUMBAI: HARDIK PATEL, JIGNESH MEVANI AND KANHAIYA KUMAR JOIN SAVE THE CONSTITUTION RALLY

Jigensh Mevani, Patidar leader Hardik Patel, Kanhaiya Kumar and others take part in the 'Save the Constitution' rally in Mumbai. (Photo by Mayuresh Ganapatye)

Patidar leader Hardik Patel, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani and Kanhaiya Kumar today took part in the United Youth Front's march called 'Save The Constitution' in Mumbai. Nearly 500 people also joined the march, which commenced from Dadar's Hindu Colony and culminated at Chaityabhoomi.



The march was backed by political parties like Congress, NCP and thers.

The protesters raised anti-Modi govt slogans and said that the govt is against the Constitution.

Kanhaiya Kumar said, "A rally of this kind was needed because Modi govt is acting against many institutions like RBI and CBI."

He further questioned PM Modi over Rafale deal.

While young Patidar leader Hardik Patel said, " If PM calls himself as 'chowkidar ' of the nation then how come big frauds happened and fraudsters fled the country? Chowkidar's work is to guard and not to sleep."



Dalit leader and Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani reminded BJP govt that Constitution is supreme in this country.

"Our constitution has got threat from this govt. This govt has decided to support the teachings of Manuscripts. But all these people who have come in support of this rally believes that Constitution is supreme and people of this country will only save our constitution."



ALSO READ: Amit Shah's statement on Sabarimala verdict is attack on Constitution: Pinarayi Vijayan

ALSO READ: Modi government responsible for demolition of RBI, CBI: Singhvi

====== 235 ========

HUNDREDS TAKE PART IN DELHI'S QUEER PRIDE PARADE

Hundreds of people took part in Delhi's Queer Pride Parade, which commenced with full zeal from Tolstoy Marg. This parade is organised by the members of Delhi Queer Pride Committee on every last Sunday of November since 2008.

====== 236 ========

NINE KILLED, 72 INJURED IN TWIN BUS ACCIDENTS IN HIMACHAL

A speeding bus fell down a bridge in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, killing at least nine passengers and injuring 51. In another accident, 21 others were injured near Shimla when a bus fell into a gorge.

Nine persons were killed in a tragic accident in Sirmaur district on Sunday when the driver of a speeding private bus lost control and broke the railing of the Jalal Bridge and fell into the river below, plunging from a height of 40 feet.

PTI quoted Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Virender Singh Thakur as saying, "The accident took place near Khadri village on the Renuka-Dadahu-Nahan road, about 168 km south of Shimla, around 4.30 pm."

Among the four who died on the spot, three were women. Five others, who were critically injured, succumbed to their injuries later on. The injured passengers are undergoing treatment at the Nahan Medical College and Dadahu Sub-divisional Hospital, the ASP told PTI.

Thakur, who reached the spot and supervised the rescue operation, said prima facie the accident happened due to the negligence of the bus driver. According to eyewitnesses, the bus was speeding while crossing the bridge.

Most of the deceased are locals who are yet to be identified.

The other accident took place at the Kiari Nallah on the Solan-Shimla border. The bus plunged into a gorge, injuring 21 people, reported ANI.

(With agency inputs)

READ | Karnataka: 30 dead as bus falls into canal in Mandya

READ | Why has Delhi's Signature Bridge become an accident spot?

WATCH | Amritsar train accident: Who is at fault?

====== 237 ========

JUSTICE BEING DENIED TO HINDUS, SAYS MOHAN BHAGWAT; JOINS SHIV SENA, VHP IN CALL FOR RAM TEMPLE

(L-R) Mohan Bhagwat, Nritya Gopaldas and Uddhav Thackeray, all called for the Ram temple to be built at the earliest. (File photos: Twitter, PTI)

On a day when the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) held a 'dharm sabha' and Shiv Sena rallied its workers to Ayodhya to press for the construction of the Ram temple, Rashtriya Swamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat addressed a 'hunkar sabha' in Nagpur to say that delaying the temple is akin to delaying justice.

Bhagwat said, "The matter is in court, the decision should be given at the earliest. It has also been proved that the temple was there. The Supreme Court is not giving priority to the case. Justice delayed is justice denied."

Once again, he demanded the Modi government passes a law as soon as possible to start work on building the Ram temple and urged the "common people" to stand up for the issue.

November 25 saw palpable tension growing over the Ram temple issue in Ayodhya and across political circles as the country gears up for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

READ | Before elections Ram Ram, after that only araam: Uddhav Thackeray escalates attack on BJP

Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray rallied over 3,000 followers from Maharashtra to Ayodhya on Saturday while the VHP claimed to have assembled over three lakh supporters who want the Ram temple to be built here.

According to PTI, Ramji Das of Nirmohi Akhara told VHP's dharam sabha on Sunday that dates for the construction will be announced early next year during Kumbh in Prayagraj (earlier Allahabad).

Addressing the sabha at the Badey Bhaktmaal ki Bagia, Ramji Das said, "It is only a matter of few days, and I request you all to show some patience."

Several seers speaking at the massive religious congregation pressed for the need to construct the Ram temple at the earliest.

Nritya Gopaldas, president of the Ram Janmbhoomi Nyas, in his address said: "Such a large attendance shows that how much people from different walks of life are attached to the Ram temple.

"We respect the courts. We have great hopes from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. I request Adityanath to pave the way for construction of Ram temple," he said making a call to the government to do the needful.

While the VHP gathering showed faith in the Modi government, Thackeray and the Shiv Sena painted an opposite picture.

READ | Congress asked SC to delay Ayodhya hearing because of 2019 polls: PM Modi in Alwar

Thackeray on Sunday said the BJP government at the Centre "may not last" if the Ram temple is not constructed at Ayodhya and demanded that an ordinance be brought in to pave for its way, warning that emotions of Hindus should not be taken for granted.

A day earlier, Thackeray asked if demonetisation could be implemented without waiting for the court to decide, what stopped the government from bypassing the Supreme Court to bring a law on the temple.

Shiv Sena has even coined a slogan saying 'Har Hindu ka yahi pukar: Pehle mandir, phir sarkar' (Every Hindu has this one demand: First the temple, then government).

"Shiv Sena has been supporting (them) on the issue of Hindutva and will continue to do so. Bring ordinance or a law but construct temple ...the emotions of Hindus should not be taken for granted," Thackeray told reporters in Ayodhya.

Bhagwat, too, sounded a similar note saying while he had called for patience earlier, now efforts must be initiated consistently and persistently.

(With PTI inputs)

ALSO READ | Coming soon: UP government reveals details of Ram statue in Ayodhya

WATCH | Is Ram Mandir an election jumla for BJP?

====== 238 ========

SINGER JAVED ALI'S SOULFUL SUFI PERFORMANCE WINS HEARTS AT SAHITYA AAJ TAK

Famed singer Javed Ali enthralled the audience gathered at Sahitya Aaj Tak 2018 with his masterful Sufi performance. Ali sang a kalaam in honour of Hazrat Ali. The audience joined in as they encouraged Javed Ali with their applause.

As he took the stage he crooned his hit number 'Jashn-e-Bahara' from the film Jodha Akbar after audience urged him. In a tribute to Amir Khusro, he sang the famous Kalma 'Phool Khile Bagiyan Mein'.

A rendition of Khwaja mere Khwaja added to the contemplative, spiritual mood of the session.

As a request was made to him to sing a romantic song, he respectfully said that the Sufiyana mahaul in the session should persist. He then sang another Sufi song which he said was very close to his heart.

====== 239 ========

SABARIMALA: A LOOK AT THE HIGH VOLTAGE DRAMA

In the run up to 2019 polls, India Today presents an election show that helps one understand the ever pulsating rise and fall in political popularity ratings. Jointly hosted by two of India's most experienced political journalists - the indomitable Rajdeep Sardesai and the ever perceptive Rahul Kanwal, Political Stock Exchange is designed to gauge the public mood and its variation on a weekly basis. Leading up to the impending face off between Narendra Modi against the Opposition, PSE will be using actual data collated from the ground across battleground states by the best number crunching pollsters in the business - Axis My India.

====== 240 ========

ELECTIONS ON MY PLATE: WHO WILL BE THE KING OF MADHYA PRADESH?

Madhya Pradesh is headed towards assembly elections. This is the state in which the BJP has maintained its hold on power for over a decade.

Join Rajdeep Sardesai as he hits the streets of Indore and checks the political pulse and explores the culinary delights the historical city presents.

====== 241 ========

SO SHAYARI: SO THIS IS WHY CM YOGI IS CHANGING CITY NAMES

Watch the humourous take on why Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath is on a name changing spree.



====== 242 ========

PREPARATIONS UNDERWAY FOR UDDHAV THACKERAY'S AYODHYA VISIT

Preparations are underway for Uddhav Thackeray's programme at Laxman Qila in Ayodhya. The Shiv Sena chief will seek blessings from Hindu saints, purohits during his visit. India Today brings you this ground report.

====== 243 ========

UDDHAV THACKERAY TAKES A DIG AT PM MODI OVER RAM MANDIR CONSTRUCTION

Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray has demanded that the Modi government should declare the date when it plans to start the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.

He said the BJP has been promising that it will get the temple constructed, but the party never tells the date when it will do so. "There is a strong BJP government in Uttar Pradesh and a BJP-led majority government at the Centre. The temple should have already been constructed. Do whatever you want to do, whether it is coming up with a law or bringing in an ordinance, but the temple must be constrcuted," he said.

====== 244 ========

MAN DRESSED AS GANDHI WALKS ACROSS 7 STATES FOR CLEANLINESS AWARENESS

This man dressed like Mahatma Gandhi is walking seven states, around 2,000 km, for spreading the message of the Swachh Bharat campaign. India Today's Mausami Singh speaks to him. Listen in.

====== 245 ========

CONGRESS CAN'T TAKE ON MODI SO ATTACKING MY MOTHER: PM IN CHHATARPUR

PM Narendra Modi today lambasted the Congress at a rally in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur for making a personal attack on him. Referring to Congress leader Raj Babbar's recent remark, Modi said the Congress is rattled by the good work of the BJP.

====== 246 ========

SHIV SENA WORKERS CHANT JAI SHRI RAM ON TRAIN TO AYODHYA

A train carrying Shiv Sena workers to Ayodhya crossed Allahabad on Friday. Police were deployed on the route. Enroute to Ayodhya, the workers chanted Jai Shri Ram slogans from the train and at a railway station.

====== 247 ========

CAUGHT ON CAMERA: SURROUNDED BY SNOW, TRUCK CATCHES FIRE IN J&K

A truck in Jammu and Kashmir's Sonamarg suddenly caught fire. The bizarre incident took place as the engine of the vehicle had frozen and the driver tried to start it by lighting a fire near it.

====== 248 ========

MAHINDRA ALTURAS G4 SUV ALL-SET FOR LAUNCH, HERE IS ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW

Mahindra is all set to launch its flagship full-size SUV in the Indian market. The Alturas G4 will be available in a single variant but will get an option for two drivetrains - 2WD and 4WD.

Mahindra had announced the name of its highly-anticipated high-end SUV, codenamed Y400, as the Alturas G4 a couple of weeks back. The Alturas G4 will be built at the company's manufacturing facility at Chakan in Maharashtra and will be launched on 24th November 2018.

Mahindra has already opened bookings for the Alturas G4 for an amount for Rs 50,000. Deliveries are slated to begin immediately after launch.

Speaking about the Alturas G4 Veejay Nakra, Chief of Sales & Marketing, M&M Ltd. said, "The word Alturas means 'height' or 'pinnacle'...Being our most luxurious offering, exquisitely designed and crafted, we believe that the Alturas G4 name perfectly describes this product."

Positioned in the high-end SUV segment, the Alturas G4 will compete with players that operate in the Rs 30 plus lakh, ex-showroom price range like the Toyota Fortuner and the Ford Endeavour.

Initially codenamed Y400, the SUV was slated to go on sale in the Indian automotive market as the XUV700.

The 7-seater SUV Alturas will sit at the top of the range and will be Mahindra's flagship SUV for the Indian market. The SUV looks quite premium and has a massive stance with designs on the exterior conforming the makings of a premium set SUV.

The Mahindra XUV700 will sit at the top of Mahindra's range of models in India and will have a wheelbase of 2,865mm and will come with automatic LED headlamps, LED tail lamps, 5-spoke alloys, and electronic tailgate.

Other features of this flagship include flared wheel arches which give the SUV an aggressive stance. Interior features include leather seats, 9.2-inch touchscreen infotainment system which is compatible with Apple CarPlay, Android Auto and WIFi support. The rear passengers also get a 10.1-inch touchscreen and zone automatic climate controls.

In the safety segment, the Alturas is slated to get top-spec equipment like 9 airbags, Hill Descent Control, Electronic Stability Control, Advanced Emergency Braking, and Active Roll-over Protection.

The Alturas is expected to be powered by a 2.2-liter, 4-cylinder turbo-diesel engine which churns out 187bhp and 420Nm of peak torque. The powertrain is expected to be mated to a 6-speed manual or a 7-speed automatic transmission.

The Mahindra Alturas G4 will go against the likes of rivals such as the Ford Endeavour, Toyota Fortuner, and the recently updated Isuzu MU-X.

====== 249 ========

DISCOVER 100-CC LAUNCH MY BIGGEST CAREER BLUNDER: RAJIV BAJAJ

Bajaj Auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj on Thursday described the launch of the 100-cc variant of the commuter bike Discover as the "biggest blunder" of his career as it stunted the company at the No 2 position.

Bajaj Auto is also planning to enter the e-vehicle space next year, even though he lamented that the industry has been given a step-motherly treatment to e-vehicles, by launching cheap variants.

He noted that the Discover was a differentiating product when it was launched in 125-cc format, "offering mileage with a little fun," which was evident from the rising volumes.

However, Bajaj rued that the company is still the No. 2 player (in terms of bikes volumes) in the country because of the mistake it had made with the lower variant launch of the Discover and that things would have been different if it hadn't done so.

"Greed came in. Marketing people said if the 125-cc Discover sells so much then how many would a 100-cc Discover sell? We went ahead and made the 100-cc Discover. We lost our position and five years later we lost our performance too...

"We started off as a point of difference, with a different perception and a USP, but we ended up being a 'me too' product. Me too is bad in life and marketing," he said, speaking at an event in the city.

He, however, sounded upbeat about the prospects of the KTM, an Austrian racing brand that the company had invested in 2007.

He recalled that when Bajaj Auto invested in KTM in 2007, it was making only 65,000 motorcycles, and was still the second largest European motorcycle brand. On the other hand, Harley Davidson was averaging 3.5 lakhs.

But the not any longer as Harley has been declining since they are estimated to finish at 2.4 lakh units this year, while KTM will finish with 2.7 lakh units, he said.

Bajaj Auto is also planning to enter the e-vehicle space next year, even though he lamented that the industry has been given a step-motherly treatment to e-vehicles, by launching cheap variants.

"We could have made a Tesla on two-wheels or a Tesla on three-wheels and created different news.... we will try and do that in 2019 now," he said.

(With inputs from PTI)

====== 250 ========

NISSAN BOARD FIRES CHAIRMAN CARLOS GHOSN: NHK

Nissan's board ousted Chairman Carlos Ghosn on Thursday after the shock arrest of the industry heavyweight, Japanese broadcaster NHK reported without citing sources, ushering in a period of uncertainty for its 19-year alliance with Renault.

A Nissan Motor Co spokesman declined to comment.

The Franco-Japanese alliance, enlarged in 2016 to include Japan's Mitsubishi Motors, has been rattled to its core by Ghosn's arrest in Japan on Monday, with the 64-year-old group chairman accused of financial misconduct.

Ghosn had shaped the alliance and was pushing for a deeper tie-up, including potentially a full Renault-Nissan merger at the French government's urging, despite strong reservations at the Japanese firm.

Japanese prosecutors said Ghosn and Representative Director Greg Kelly, who has also been arrested, conspired to understate Ghosn's compensation at Nissan over five years from 2010, saying it was about half the actual 10 billion yen ($88 million).

Shin Kukimoto, a deputy public prosecutor at the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office, said on Thursday that court approval was received a day earlier to detain Ghosn for 10 days but he could not comment on whether he had admitted to the allegations.

Nissan executives have five seats on the nine-member board, Renault loyalists have two seats and the remaining two are held by unaffiliated outside directors, a former bureaucrat, and a race driver.

With Ghosn and Kelly still in detention, neither of the men were able to vote or defend themselves at the meeting.

Renault has refrained from firing Ghosn as chairman and CEO, although he remains in detention along with Kelly, whom Nissan also accuses of financial misconduct.

But Mitsubishi Motors plans to remove Ghosn from his post of chairman at a board meeting next week.

Amid growing uncertainty over the future of the alliance, Japan's industry minister and France's finance minister are due to meet in Paris on Thursday to seek ways to stabilize it.

"For me, the future of the alliance is the bigger deal," a senior Nissan official told reporters on Wednesday when asked about Ghosn's arrest. "It's obvious that in this age, we need to do things together. To part would be impossible."

FORBIDDING SURROUNDINGS

Nissan said on Monday an internal investigation triggered by a tip-off from an informant had revealed that Ghosn engaged in wrongdoing including personal use of company money and under-reporting of his earnings for years.

Ghosn and Kelly have not commented on the accusations and Reuters has not been able to reach them.

Prosecutors said Ghosn is being held at the Tokyo detention center, which is known for its austere regime, a far cry from his usual luxury lifestyle, including restrictions on sleeping during the day and a requirement to wear a mask when meeting with visitors to prevent the spread of disease.

The detention house "is pretty cold at this of time year," internet entrepreneur and convicted fraudster Takufumi Horie told his followers on Twitter.

Motonari Otsuru, a former public prosecutor who is known for overseeing the case against Horie, was hired as Ghosn's lawyer, NHK reported. Otsuru's law office declined to confirm that he represented Ghosn and said no one was available for comment.

The Asahi Shimbun said on Thursday, quoting unnamed sources, that Ghosn had given Kelly orders by email to make false statements on his remuneration. Tokyo prosecutors likely seized the related emails and may use them as evidence, the report said.

The Yomiuri, Japan's biggest-circulation daily, cited unnamed sources as saying Nissan's internal investigation found that Ghosn had since 2002 instructed that about $100,000 a year be paid to his elder sister as remuneration for a non-existent advisory role.

The paper said Nissan had found through the investigation that Ghosn's sister had in fact been living in and managing a luxury apartment in Rio de Janeiro that the company had bought through an overseas subsidiary, but had done no advisory work for the car maker. Nissan has shared the information with prosecutors, Yomiuri said.

Shares in Nissan closed up 0.8 percent, in line with a broader market, ahead of the board meeting.

(With inputs from Reuters)

====== 251 ========

NEW MARUTI SUZUKI ERTIGA VARIANTS EXPLAINED, MAY GET CNG OPTION LATER

Maruti Suzuki launched the second generation of its widely popular Ertiga MUV with prices starting from Rs 7.44 lakh, ex-showroom. The new-gen Ertiga gets an all-new design with bigger dimensions than its predecessor.

Maruti Suzuki has priced the Ertiga MPV at a starting amount of Rs 7.44 lakh, ex-showroom. The petrol-automatic variant starts at Rs 9.18 lakh and the diesel variant starts at Rs 8.84 lakh, ex-showroom.

Maruti Suzuki has already started taking in official bookings for the MPV for a token amount of Rs Rs 11,000. Deliveries will be starting by the last week of November or the first week of December.

Under the hood, the Ertiga will be powered by a 1.5-liter K15 petrol, 4-cylinder engine which churns out 104.7bhp and 138Nm of torque. The engine has been developed in-house by Suzuki. The engine will be mated to a 5-speed manual and a 4-speed automatic transmission. The diesel engine is the same 1.3-liter Fiat sourced Multijet engine. The new Ertiga also gets mild-hybrid technology on both petrol and diesel variants, similar to the Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. The petrol variant gets two batteries with one battery used to deliver torque for daily driving activities. The petrol and diesel get 5-speed gearboxes, while a 4-speed torque converter gearbox on offer with the petrol variant only.

Maruti Suzuki is also working towards the introduction of the second-gen Ertiga in a CNG variant. According to our conversation with various dealerships across different cities, Maruti Suzuki is planning to launch a CNG powered second-gen Ertiga within the first half of 2019. The CNG variant will be powered by the same K15 1.5-liter motor and may also get Maruti Suzuki Smart Hybrid tech with a dual-battery setup.

Maruti Suzuki's latest fifth generation HEARTECT platform which currently underpins the Baleno, Swift and the Dzire also underpins the upcoming Maruti Suzuki Ertiga.

Here we give you a breakup of the variants and its accompanying features along with the price.

LXi/LDi (Rs 7.44 lakh/Rs 8.84 lakh)

Projector headlamps

LED tail-lamps

Dual airbags

ABS with EBD

Isofix child seat mounts

Power windows with driver’s side auto down function

Tilt adjustable steering wheel

15-inch steel rims

Speed sensitive door locks

Rear parking sensors

Central locking

60:40 split-folding second row of seats

50:50 split-folding third row of seats

Tachometer

Manual air conditioning

12V charging port in the front

VXi/VDi/VXi AT (Rs 8.16/Rs 9.56 lakh/Rs 9.18 lakh)

Steering-mounted audio and telephony controls

Wheel caps for the 15-inch steel wheels

Turn indicators in the wing mirrors

Four speaker audio system with USB, AUX and Bluetooth connectivity

Rear AC vents

Remote keyless entry

12V charging port in the first and second row

Day/night inside rear view mirror

Electronically adjustable and folding wing mirrors

Body-colored door handles and outside rear view mirrors

Second-row center armrest

ESP (AT only)

Hill hold function (AT only)

ZXi/ZDi/ZXi AT (Rs 8.99 lakh/Rs 10.39 lakh/Rs 9.95 lakh)

Height adjustable driver’s seat

Two tweeters

Front center armrest with storage space

Push button start/stop

Rear defogger, wash, and wiper

12V charging port in all three rows (two in the front)

Automatic climate control

Front seatbelt height adjust

Front fog lamps

15-inch alloy wheels

ZXi+/ZDi+ (Rs 9.50 lakh/Rs 10.90 lakh)

SmartPlay infotainment system with Apple CarPlay, Android Auto and navigation

Rear parking camera

Leather-wrapped steering wheel

The second-generation all-new Ertiga has been priced a whole Rs 1.10 lakh higher than the outgoing Ertiga model. The most probable reason is the addition of new features like standard dual-airbags, parking sensors at the rear, new infotainment system, and the dual-battery mild hybrid setup.

However, despite other top-spec variants of Maruti Suzuki's lineup like the Ignis, Baleno, Swift, and the more recent Ciaz which gets LED headlamps, the new-gen Ertiga top-spec does not get one. Neither does it get LED DRLs and diamond cut alloy wheels.

The Ertiga is being sold via Maruti Suzuki Arena dealerships. The all-new Ertiga takes on the recently launched Mahindra Marazzo and the Renault Lodgy currently on sale in the Indian market.

Petrol:

LXi: Rs 7.44 lakh

VXi: Rs 8.16 lakh

ZXi: Rs 8.99 lakh

ZXi+: Rs 9.50 lakh

Petrol Automatic:

VXi: Rs 9.18 lakh

ZXi: Rs 9.95 lakh

Diesel manual:

LDi: Rs 8.84 lakh

VDi: Rs 9.56 lakh

ZDi: Rs 10.39 lakh

ZDi+: Rs 10.90 lakh

====== 252 ========

BAJAJ PULSAR 220F TO COME WITH ABS FEATURE SOON

Bajaj has been looking to launch the Pulsar 220F with the ABS for some time. It now seems the launch day is not far as a picture of the upcoming motorcycle has surfaced online.

Once the motorcycle goes on sale, the Pulsar 220F will be the third motorcycle in Bajaj's motorcycle range after the NS 200 and the RS 200 to get the ABS feature. Similar to its siblings, the Pulsar 220F will most likely feature a single channel ABS unit which is also installed on its 200cc siblings.

Launched over a decade ago, the 220F still occupies the mantle of the most popular entry-level 200cc faired motorcycle in the market. The ABS update with the 220F means Bajaj has no plans to withdraw the 220F from the market anytime soon.

The motorcycle also gets new decals and graphics. Also newly added is an underbelly cowl which can be seen in the pictures. The Bajaj Pulsar 220F is powered by a 220cc-single cylinder, liquid cooled engine churning out 20.9bhp and 18.5Nm of torque. The standard non-ABS Pulsar 220F is currently sold in the Indian market for an ex-showroom price of Rs 97,446. The upcoming ABS feature will demand a premium of around Rs 12,000 over the current price. This means the motorcycle will cost at around Rs 1.10 lakh, ex-showroom.

====== 253 ========

2019 TVS APACHE RTR 180 LAUNCHED IN INDIA FOR RS 84,578

TVS Motor Company, a manufacturer of two-wheelers and three-wheelers in the world today rolled out the MY 2019 TVS Apache RTR 180. TVS recently crossed a sales milestone of 3 million units and this refreshed model introduction is part of the celebration.

According to TVS, the new Apache is a testimony to the racing legacy of the TVS Apache RTR series. The new TVS Apache RTR 180 gets race-inspired graphics and new decals.

The refreshed model has many new features including a white back-lit speedometer with dial-art, novel Alcantara like finish seats, a crash guard with integrated frame sliders and a forged handlebar end weights for a detailed premium finish.

The motorcycle is developed to deliver a top speed of 114 km/h. TVS Apache RTR 180 is the first-in-class to introduce dual-channel ABS on Indian roads, giving the bike better stopping power and superior braking control.

The TVS Apache RTR 180 continues to be powered by the earlier 177.4cc, 2-valve, single-cylinder engine which churns out 16bhp and 15.5Nm of torque. The engine is paired with a 5-speed manual gearbox.

The motorcycle is available in five colors - Pearl White, Gloss Black, T Grey, Matte Blue, and Matte Red. The Apache RTR 180 is priced at Rs 84,578 (Ex-showroom, New Delhi) and Apache RTR 180 ABS version is priced at Rs 95,392 (Ex-showroom, New Delhi).

====== 254 ========

IN PICTURES | MARUTI SUZUKI ERTIGA GETS ALL NEW INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR DESIGN

Maruti Suzuki has launched the 2018 Ertiga in the Indian market. Maruti Suzuki has already started sending in new stocks of the Ertiga to MSI dealers. The Ertiga will be sold under Maruti Arena's dealership and not under Nexa branding.

Maruti Suzuki has priced the Ertiga MPV at a starting amount of Rs 7.44 lakh, ex-showroom. The petrol-automatic variant starts at Rs 9.18 lakh and the diesel variant starts at Rs 8.84 lakh, ex-showroom.

Suzuki unveiled the facelifted Ertiga MUV first in Indonesia at the International Motor Show.

Maruti Suzuki has already started taking in official bookings for the MPV for a token amount of Rs Rs 11,000. Deliveries will be starting by the last week of November or the first week of December.

Here are some pictures of the new Maruti Suzuki Ertiga.

====== 255 ========

MARUTI SUZUKI ERTIGA LAUNCHED IN INDIA FOR RS 7.44 LAKH

Maruti Suzuki has launched the 2018 Ertiga in the Indian market. Maruti Suzuki has already started sending in new stocks of the Ertiga to MSI dealers. The Ertiga will be sold under Maruti Arena's dealership and not under Nexa branding.

Maruti Suzuki has priced the Ertiga MPV at a starting amount of Rs 7.44 lakh, ex-showroom. The petrol-automatic variant starts at Rs 9.18 lakh and the diesel variant starts at Rs 8.84 lakh, ex-showroom.

Suzuki unveiled the facelifted Ertiga MUV first in Indonesia at the International Motor Show.

Maruti Suzuki has already started taking in official bookings for the MPV for a token amount of Rs Rs 11,000. Deliveries will be starting by the last week of November or the first week of December.

The new Ertiga gets all-new head LED lamps with DRLs, sitting on either side of a revised grille. The grille is not a single-slat one anymore, but more sophisticated with added chrome units. The front bumper has been changed too with aggressive fog lamp housings and front lip and added black mesh. In comparison to the current gen Ertiga, it looks very different and will look different than the current gen Dzire and the Swift as well.

The rear gets a massive revamp as well. Gone are the standard halogen tail lamps, and enter new LED tail lamps which looks aggressive and stretches all the way to the C-pillar. The rear bumper looks revised as well. Other new changes multi-spoke alloys, keyless entry, and turn indicators on ORVMs.

The interior remains almost the same as the Dzire. Features include tilt steering, touchscreen infotainment, dual-airbags on all variants, ISOFIX seats, ABS with Electronic Brake Distribution and Stability Control. The new Ertiga also gets Maruti Suzuki's SmartPlay entertainment system. The Ertiga will be available only in an 8-seat configuration.

Under the hood, the Ertiga will be powered by a 1.5-liter K15 petrol, 4-cylinder engine which churns out 104.7bhp and 138Nm of torque. The engine has been developed in-house by Suzuki. The engine will be mated to a 5-speed manual and a 4-speed automatic transmission. The diesel engine is the same 1.3-liter Fiat sourced Multijet engine. The new Ertiga also gets mild-hybrid technology on both petrol and diesel variants, similar to the Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. The petrol variant gets two batteries with one battery used to deliver torque for daily driving activities. The petrol and diesel get 5-speed gearboxes, while a 4-speed torque converter gearbox on offer with the petrol variant only.

Maruti Suzuki's latest fifth generation HEARTECT platform which currently underpins the Baleno, Swift and the Dzire also underpins the upcoming Maruti Suzuki Ertiga.

Here is the price according to variants.

Petrol:

LXi: Rs 7.44 lakh

VXi: Rs 8.16 lakh

ZXi: Rs 8.99 lakh

ZXi+: Rs 9.50 lakh

Petrol Automatic:

VXi: Rs 9.18 lakh

ZXi: Rs 9.95 lakh

Diesel manual:

LDi: Rs 8.84 lakh

VDi: Rs 9.56 lakh

ZDi: Rs 10.39 lakh

ZDi+: Rs 10.90 lakh

====== 256 ========

ALL-NEW BMW M2 COMPETITION LAUNCHED IN INDIA FOR RS 79.90 LAKH

The all-new BMW M2 Competition was launched in India today. The BMW M2 Competition will be available at all BMW dealerships across India as a Completely Built-Up (CBU) model from today onwards.

The BMW M2 Competition is available in a petrol variant at an ex-showroom price of INR 79, 90,000.

The M2 Competition is available in Alpine White (non-metallic) and in the following metallic paintworks: Sunset Orange, Hockenheim Silver, Long Beach Blue, and Black Sapphire.

The range of fine upholstery combinations in the M2 Competition includes Leather Dakota Black/contrast stitching Blue | Black and Leather Dakota Black/contrast stitching Orange | Black. The optional perforations in either blue or orange will only be available with optional M Sport Seats.

The exterior of the M2 Competition gets enlarged air inlets and the high-gloss Black kidney grill with an M2 badge.

The characteristic coupé silhouette extends from the bonnet to the muscularly sculpted rear. The Adaptive LED headlights to complete the dynamic look.

BMW Individual High-Gloss Shadow Line with extended content accentuate the sporty appearance. M side gills with M2 model designation and M wing mirrors underline the motor racing character. In the rear, the M rear spoiler and the sports exhaust system with four tailpipes in Black Chrome signal sporting ambitions in top form.

The interior design of the all-new BMW M2 Competition has a consistent driver focus. The M2 Competition logo on the door sill emphasizes the vehicle's athletic ambitions. The optional M Sport seats with an illuminated M2 badge and standard M Seat belts not only offer a powerful look but also perfect support. The BMW Individual headliner in Anthracite with interior trim finishers in black high-gloss with highlight trim finisher Pearl Chrome complete this expressive and prestigious ensemble.

The new instrument cluster in black panel design sports M style dials, red needles, and an M2 Competition welcome staging in white illumination. The multifunction M leather steering wheel is also optimized for peak performance. The driver can also use the M Drive M1 and M2 buttons to select the desired settings whilst driving. A new red start/stop button underlines the motorsport character of the car.

The M TwinPower Turbo three-litre six-cylinder in-line petrol engine in the all-new BMW M2 Competition leaves nothing to be desired. The high-revving power unit delivers its exceptional output of 302 kW/410 hp at 6,250 rpm and a tremendous peak torque of 550 Nm. The boost in performance pushes the all-new BMW M2 Competition from 0 to 100 km/hr in just 4.2 seconds with a top speed of 250 km/hr.

The seven-speed M dual-clutch transmission with Drivelogic is an innovative dual-clutch system specially designed for the high-revving BMW M engine. It enables extremely fast gear changes without any loss of traction. The shift paddles on the M leather steering wheel put the seven gears at your fingertips for absolute control.

The M Servotronic with three driving modes (Comfort, Sport, and Sport+) lend the all-new BMW M2 Competition unique handling characteristics. The standard Active M Differential on the rear axle and Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) have likewise been configured to match the upgraded dynamics.

The exhaust system comes with an innovative flap concept. The electrically controlled flaps positioned just before the rear silencer, minimize exhaust backpressure for optimized efficiency and create a distinctively unmistakable BMW M sound across the entire rev range.

The all-new BMW M2 Competition comes with a package of intelligent safety features aimed at minimizing risk with airbags, Active M Differential, Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) including M Dynamic mode and Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).

Maximum driving pleasure coupled with an outstanding performance/fuel consumption ratio thanks to EfficientDynamics measures such as Intelligent Lightweight Construction, Automatic Start/Stop function, Brake Energy Regeneration, Electric Power Steering, 50:50 Weight Distribution and many other innovative technologies.

The BMW ConnectedDrive services onboard the all-new BMW M2 Competition provide the driver with a wide range of information, entertainment and service feature such as an iDrive controller, Radio BMW Professional, 7 loudspeakers with 205 Watts HiFi loudspeaker system, a 16.5 cms colour display with AM/FM Radio, Connectivity through Bluetooth and USB connectivity. Park Distance Control (PDC) rear and front along with rear view camera come as standard. The optional features include the next generation BMW iDrive (the on-board Driver Information System) with touch controller, BMW Navigation Professional (integrated Global Positioning System GPS) with 22.3 cm color display and 3D maps, 12 loudspeakers with 360 Watts HiFi loudspeaker system from Harman Kardon, BMW Apps, and Apple Car Play.

====== 257 ========

HONDA SCOOTER SALES CROSS 25 MILLION MARK IN INDIA

Creating a new high for scooterization in India, Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. today announced its scooter sales have now crossed the landmark 25 million milestone figure.

From achieving 10 million sales mark in 13 years, Honda added the additional 10 million customers in just next 3 years. Adding the next 5 million within 1 year, now Honda 2Wheelers India is the only scooter manufacturer in India to delight over 25 million customers an industry first record.

Scooterization revived 18 years ago across the country when Honda launched the iconic Activa in the dying scooter segment. Accelerating the segment contribution from just 10 per cent in 2001 to the current 32 per cent in 2018, the sales and reliability of Honda scooters made way for scooterization in Indian two-wheeler market.

Keeping up with the evolving customer expectations, Honda expanded its scooter portfolio with industry-leading specifications & advanced features. Strengthening its leadership, Honda has the largest scooter portfolio in the industry ranging from rural-utilitarian Cliq to India’s top-selling Activa to the premium 125cc range including Activa 125 & Grazia.

Honda is now one of the biggest scooter selling two-wheeler brand of India with dominant 57 per cent market share as every 2nd scooter sold in India is a Honda.

With the South-East Asian countries having scooter contribution up to 70-80 per cent, India is fast accepting scooterization. In progressive states of India, Honda is already leading the wave with scooters accounting for over 60 per cent contribution in Chandigarh, Goa, Kerala, northeastern states like Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur & Nagaland and over 55 per cent in Himachal Pradesh. Even in the motorcycle dominant states, scooters are further gaining acceptance and growth in total two-wheeler sales on yearly basis.

====== 258 ========

TATA HARRIER ALL-SET FOR DECEMBER UNVEIL, HERE'S ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT TATA'S PREMIUM SUV

Tata it seems is working hard on readying itself for one of the biggest launches in India, the Tata Harrier. The Hyundai Creta, Jeep Compass rival is slated to make ground by a global unveil next month. Tata blew our minds away when it launched the H5X concept, now called Harrier, back at the 2018 Auto Expo.

Tata Motors officially revealed the Harrier with the rollout of the 1st Harrier from its all-new manufacturing line. With this, Tata Motors is now gearing up for the launch of its much-awaited SUV in early 2019. Tata will be unveiling the Harrier globally in December. The Tata Harrier SUV first made its domestic debut in its concept form back in February at the 2018 Auto Expo.

Because the Harrier is designed on the base of Tata's latest Impact Design 2.0 philosophy, the Harrier needed a completely new approach to product development and manufacturing processes. The completely new assembly line has been built in a time of six months with a majority of the manufacturing practices adopted from Jaguar Land Rover. It boasts of 90 per cent automation levels with over 100+ KUKA and ABB robots.

The Tata Harrier will offer an all-new exterior design, ergonomically and premium designed interiors, future-ready connectivity, and Tata-claimed best-in-class infotainment. The 5 seater monocoque SUV is engineered on the new generation Optimal Modular Efficient Global Advanced’ Architecture, which is derived from the legendary Land Rover D8 architecture and developed in collaboration with Jaguar Land Rover.

The Harrier will be built on the Omega platform which is a derivative of the L550 platform from the stables of Jaguar Land Rover for the Discovery Sport which also gets the D8 architecture. This means the Harrier is slated to use the parts bin of the Discovery Sport which includes floor panels, all-independent suspension, and steering gear. However, steel will be used with aluminum to optimize cost.

The Harrier is also slated to share the wheelbase from the Discovery Sport which is 2,741mm and will be 4x4 capable like the Discovery Sport and will come with a proper 4x4 drivetrain.

The best part yet, the production-spec Harrier looks very similar to the H5X concept with the high-set headlamps with LED DRLs. Other styling similarities include wheel arches, front and rear armrests, slim headlamps which are in accordance with their Impact Design 2.0 language.

The SUV will come with a host of safety equipment like a terrain response system, ABS with EBD, Electronic Stability, different driving modes, all-wheel drive (top-spec), and independent suspension control.

The Harrier is slated to be powered by a Fiat-sourced Kryotec, 140bhp, 2.0-liter 4-cylinder, a turbo-diesel engine with a 4-wheel drive system which will be developed by Tata. The powertrain will be mated to a 6-speed manual or a Hyundai sourced 6-speed automatic. The engine will get multiple drive modes which are already available on Tata's Revotron and Revotorq line of engines.

Interior wise, the Harrier will feature front and rear AC vents, sunroof, touchscreen infotainment system, steering mounted controls, electric seats with memory function, parking sensors, and reverse camera.

Tata has already started taking in bookings for the Harrier for a booking amount of Rs 30,000. Interested customers can make the booking online or at their nearest Tata dealership.

With an expected launch date set in early January 2019 and deliveries slated for late January, the Tata Harrier will go against the likes of the Hyundai Creta, Renault Captur, Mahindra XUV500, Jeep Compass, and the upcoming Nissan Kicks.

Also read: Tata Harrier revealed officially, top 10 things to know

====== 259 ========

MARUTI SUZUKI ERTIGA LOCKED FOR NOVEMBER 21 LAUNCH, HERE IS ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW

Maruti Suzuki is all set for the Ertiga launch. Maruti Suzuki has already started sending in new stocks of the Ertiga to MSI dealers. The Ertiga will be sold under Maruti Arena's dealership and not under Nexa branding.

The Maruti Suzuki Ertiga has been spotted quite a few times already. After Suzuki unveiled the facelifted Ertiga MUV in Indonesia at the International Motor Show, Maruti Suzuki is slated to launch the much-awaited MPV in the Indian car market on November 21.

Maruti Suzuki has already started taking in official bookings for the MPV for a token amount of Rs Rs 11,000. Deliveries will be starting by the last week of November or the first week of December.

The new Ertiga gets all-new head LED lamps with DRLs, sitting on either side of a revised grille. The grille is not a single-slat one anymore, but more sophisticated with added chrome units. The front bumper has been changed too with aggressive fog lamp housings and front lip and added black mesh. In comparison to the current gen Ertiga, it looks very different and will look different than the current gen Dzire and the Swift as well.

The rear gets a massive revamp as well. Gone are the standard halogen tail lamps, and enter new LED tail lamps which looks aggressive and stretches all the way to the C-pillar. The rear bumper looks revised as well. Other new changes multi-spoke alloys, keyless entry, and turn indicators on ORVMs.

The interior remains almost the same as the Dzire. Features include tilt steering, touchscreen infotainment, dual-airbags on all variants, ISOFIX seats, ABS with Electronic Brake Distribution and Stability Control. The new Ertiga also gets Maruti Suzuki's SmartPlay entertainment system. The Ertiga will be available only in an 8-seat configuration.

Under the hood, the Ertiga will be powered by a 1.5-liter petrol, 4-cylinder engine which churns out 104.7bhp and 138Nm of torque. The engine has been developed in-house by Suzuki. The engine will be mated to a 5-speed manual and a 4-speed automatic transmission.

Maruti Suzuki's latest HEARTECT platform which currently underpins the Baleno, Swift and the Dzire will also underpin the upcoming Maruti Suzuki Ertiga. The MPV is slated to get automatic gearbox options for both its petrol and diesel variant, although Maruti Suzuki still has to confirm this.

Image Source

====== 260 ========

RENAULT TO ORGANIZE NATIONWIDE WINTER CAMP FROM NOVEMBER 19

Renault, the European automotive brand in India, has announced the commencement of a Winter Camp across all Renault Service facilities in India from November 19 - November 25, 2018. Scheduled for 7 days, the winter camp will offer a comprehensive check-up for all Renault cars.

The primary objective of organizing the service camp is to ensure optimal performance of the vehicles and prepare them to face the tough winter conditions. Trained and well-qualified service technicians would be dedicated to providing the utmost care and expert attention that is needed for the vehicles. Offering a comprehensive car check-up, the camp will enable a detailed examination of all the key functions of the cars as per the guidelines stipulated by Renault India. Such periodical checks ensure necessary actions for enhanced performance of the vehicle and provide customers a rewarding ownership experience.

As part of the Winter Camp, Renault customers can also avail up to 50 per cent discount on select accessories, 10 per cent attractive discount offers on select parts, 15 per cent discount on labor charges and other value-added services. Renault India will also provide 10 per cent discount on Renault Secure’ which covers Extended Warranty and Road Side Assistance. The company will also offer an exclusive plan on Renault Assured’ to facilitate the customers with insurance renewal solutions. In addition to the check-up facilities and free car top wash, Renault India will provide a host of other value-added benefits like special discounts on tires (select brands) and 5 per cent additional discount on select parts & accessories only for MyRenault app registered users. Several fun-filled activities will be organized for customers with assured gifts, making it an enduring and cherishing experience for the customers.

Currently, Renault India has a widespread presence of more than 350 sales and 264 service facilities across the country with benchmark sales and service quality.

====== 261 ========

MAHINDRA TO HIKE MARAZZO PRICE BY RS 40,000 FROM JANUARY 1, 2019

Mahindra has announced that effective January 1, 2019, it will increase the price of the Marazzo by Rs 30,000 Rs 40,000.

According to Veejay Ram Nakra, Chief of Sales and Marketing Automotive Division, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, As mentioned at the launch, the price of Marazzo was an introductory one. Effective January 1st, 2019, we will be taking a price hike on the Marazzo, after a reasonable period of 4 months from its launch.

The Marazzo has been co-designed by the Mahindra Design Studio and the legendary Italian design house, Pininfarina. It has been engineered in collaboration with the Mahindra North America Technical Centre and the Mahindra Research Valley, Chennai, making the Marazzo a globally engineered product.

The Marazzo comes with a 7-seater and 8-seater configuration on the options, alongside a captain seat. The Marazzo MUV also gets a two-tone dashboard with faux aluminum trims, chrome-finished air-con vents, and piano black finish.

The Marazzo also gets top-notch features like controls on the steering wheel, automatic climate control system, three rows of air-con, added to a current-gen XUV500 touchscreen infotainment system, cruise control, and sunshade for second-row passengers.

The Marazzo is powered by Mahindra's all-new 4-cylinder, 1.5-liter diesel engine from the brand's mFalcon series of engines. The all-new turbocharged engine makes around 130bhp and comes mated to a 6-speed manual gearbox with a possible optional automatic-spec gearbox for future models.

The Marazzo from Mahindra is expected to come with the traditional Mahindra grille - similar to the XUV. The MUV has as of now been spotted with heavy camouflaging being tested on the roads of India. However, the Marazzo will get a three-box design with the A-pillar as forward as possible to maximize interior space.

The Mahindra Marazzo MUV gets a low-floored cabin despite getting a body-on-frame construction. The MUV also gets a shortened version of the typical Mahindra grille alongside wraparound headlamps with LED DRLs (possibly only on higher-spec trims), LED tail lamps, and 16-inch 5-spoke alloys, again only on higher trims.

The MUV from Mahindra sits right in the middle of the Maruti Suzuki Ertiga and the Toyota Innova in terms of size and is priced at Rs 9.99 lakh, ex-showroom, depending on the trim level. The base variant is the M2. The M4 variant costs Rs 10.95 lakh, M6 costs Rs 12.40 lakh, and the top-spec variant M8 costs Rs 13.90 lakh, ex-showroom. The MUV will also compete with the likes of rivals like Renault Lodgy and the new gen Honda BR-V.

Considering Mahindra has already stated that there will be three launches for the 2018 year, the Mahindra Marazzo is one of the three. The Indian based car manufacturing major has also planned to bring its Ssangyong Tivoli-based compact SUV which will be pitted against the likes of the Tata Nexon, and the Ford EcoSport and the all-new Mahindra badged Ssangyong Rexton to rival the Toyota Fortuner and the Ford Endeavour.

====== 262 ========

EMISSION FIASCO: NGT DIRECTS VOLKSWAGEN TO DEPOSIT RS 100 CRORE

The National Green Tribunal Friday directed Volkswagen to deposit an interim amount of Rs 100 crore with the CPCB in a case related to allegations against the German auto major for using 'cheat device' in emission tests of its diesel vehicles.

A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also formed a committee comprising officials of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of Heavy Industries, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Automotive Research Association of India to calculate the actual quantum of the environmental loss.

The green panel directed the committee to submit the report within a month and asked the company and the petitioner in the case to appear before the panel within seven days with their contentions.

The tribunal was hearing pleas filed by a school teacher Saloni Ailawadi and a few others seeking a ban on the sale of Volkswagen vehicles for alleged violation of emission norms.

The automobile giant had earlier submitted a roadmap before the tribunal to recall over 3.23 lakh vehicles in the country fitted with a 'defeat device' meant to fudge emission tests.

A 'cheat' or 'defeat device' is a software in diesel engines to manipulate emission tests by changing the performance of the cars globally.

(With inputs from PTI)

====== 263 ========

MERCEDES-BENZ CLS LAUNCHED IN INDIA FOR RS 84.7 LAKH

Mercedes-Benz has launched the new-generation CLS sedan in the Indian market. This CLS will be the third generation of the CLS model. Mercedes already bought the first two generations of the CLS to the Indian car market. The CLS luxury sedan will battle it out with the BMW 6 Series Gran Coupe, Audi A7, Porsche Panamera, and the Maserati Ghibli.

The design of the CLS is all-new with the signature AMG-GT LED headlamps, aggressive front, and a longer bonnet. The CLS gets a swooping roofline which is similar to the earlier CLS models. The roofline has a coupe-ish feel to it and extends to the fastback-designed rear side. The tail lamps are also new but the rear end looks unmistakeably CLS.

According to Mercedes, the CLS' tail lamps, registration plate slot, and the logo between the tail lamps are in sync with the design of current Mercedes coupe models.

On the interior, the E-Class and S-Class inspired dual 12.3-inch display graces the center and driver console. The center display also doubles up as an infotainment display alongside driver instruments, flanked by turbine-like vents alongside swathes of leather, wood, and metal which takes the luxury quotient of the interior to the next level.

In terms of safety, the new CLS gets a host of driver-assistance technologies brought in the S-Class flagship sedan. The CLS gets autonomous emergency braking (AEB), lane assist, speed limit assist, pre-safe occupant protection, pre-safe sound technology, adaptive cruise control, active steering assist, active speed limit assist, and active blind-spot assist.

The CLS is powered by a 2.0-liter inline-4, turbocharged diesel which churns out 245bhp and 500Nm.

Mercedes has launched the CLS in India with only a single diesel engine on offer - CLS 300d, which is the same BS6 compliant powerplant available on the recently updated C-Class.

====== 264 ========

JAWA MOTORCYCLES LAUNCHED IN INDIA, PRICES START AT RS 1.55 LAKH

Renowned motorcycling brand Jawa has launched their all-new motorcycles in India. With an all-new design, the Jawa motorcycles bring in two all-new engine specs in a total of three variants. Two Jawa motorcycles are powered by a 293cc single-cylinder engine. While the larger Perak is powered by a bigger 334cc, single cylinder engine.

When we speak of engines, we generally begin with technical specifications. We had previously reported about the engines reveal like the one we have seen in the past. The single cylinder head has fins in spite of this motor being liquid cooled and the Jawa nametag is embossed too. The rest of the motor is clean and there is little clutter all around. The twin peashooter pipes also hark back to the past.

The new Jawa will come with a 293cc, liquid cooled, single cylinder, DOHC four-stroke engine. While this is the same motor which powers the Mahindra Mojo, engineers have given it a complete retune. The motor is tuned to produce 27bhp and 28Nm of torque. The company says that this motor offers a generous mid-range and a flat torque curve for an unwavering, consistently powered ride. The engine is mated to a Constant Mesh 6-speed gearbox.

The engine has been built on a BS6 ready platform and we are told that the fuel injection system has been perfectly tuned for enjoyable rides. But what is even better news is that the company says that it will sound much like the old Jawa. Now if you are a Jawa fan, you surely will be aware of the beautiful engine note which the 2-stroke motors offered. Given that replicating the tone of a classic 2-stroke on a modern day 4-stroke would be a big challenge. A maverick team of sound engineers in Italy worked extensively with us through countless cycles of harmonic pipe combinations and multiple other permutations to discover a sound that was worthy of the new Jawa.

The first models to go on the sale floor will be the Jawa and the Jawa 42. Test drive and delivery will begin from February 2019. All Jawa motorcycles will be built at the Mahindra factory in Pithampur.

The new Jawas look thoroughly modern yet have that retro essence. It will sport all the bells and whistles found in modern bikes and at the same time offer a retro charm. Needless to say, the new Jawa will take on another icon here in India, the Royal Enfield Classic. Looks like the days ahead are going to be exciting.

Jawa 42 is priced at an ex-showroom price of Rs 1.55 lakh, Jawa is priced at Rs 1.64 lakh ex-showroom, Jawa Perak custom bobber at Rs 1.89 lakh, ex-showroom, Delhi.

====== 265 ========

ROYAL ENFIELD INTERCEPTOR 650, CONTINENTAL GT 650 LAUNCHED, PRICES INSIDE

The long wait is finally over! Royal Enfield has finally launched its most awaited motorcycles in the Indian market, the 650 twins. The Royal Enfield Continental GT 650 starts at an ex-showroom price of Rs 2.65 lakh, and the Interceptor 650 starts at an ex-showroom price of Rs 2.50 lakh. Deliveries are slated to begin by December 2018.

The twins first made ground at the 2017 EICMA motorcycle show held last year with its Indian reveal at the 2018 Auto Expo held in February. Bookings for the 650 twins have already begun.

The Interceptor 650 looks like a Roadster and gets an all-new, dedicated steel-tube cradle chassis. The Interceptor also gets wide-braced handlebars. The motorcycle is equipped with classic 18-inch front and rear Pirelli tires and twin shock absorbers, along with front and rear disc brakes with ABS. The Interceptor 650 also gets a ground clearance of 174mm and a seat height of 804 mm.

The twin motorcycles are powered by RE's own 650cc twin engine. The new platform is a single overhead cam (SOHC), 8 valves, air/oil cooled, a 648cc parallel twin which produces 47bhp and 52Nm. The engine is slated to get a strong low and mid-range performance, which retains the Royal Enfield's accessible torque through the rev range. Also new to the Royal Enfield Interceptor 650 is the six-speed gearbox which has been developed for this motorcycle. The gearbox is supported by its slip/assist clutch which prevents wheel-hop when downshifting gears at high speeds.

Additionally, Royal Enfield's all-new Continental GT 650 retains its central cafe racer character with added engineering and design improvements.

It shares its engine, chassis and running parts with its twin, the Interceptor 650, while it offers completely different ergonomics and style. The motorcycle has a front leaning stance. The Continental GT 650 also gets a mid-level 3-piece clip-on handlebar and gets a standard 12.5-liter fuel tank capacity.

The Interceptor 650 and the Continental GT 650 get disc brakes on the front and the rear with ABS. The upswept exhaust and rear-set footrests give the motorcycle a massive lean angle, essential for a cafe racer. The motorcycle also gets a single seat, sculpted tank, and clip-on bars.

While the standard range of color which takes inspiration from the motorcycles of the 50s and the 60s, the custom range is a bolder and retro version of graphics and colors. The Interceptor 650 comes in Orange Crush and the Ice Queen Continental GT 650 were displayed at EICMA last year.

The two motorcycles have been subjected to various lab and bench tests, in addition to being tested on race tracks and public roads. With over one million kms of testing prior to production, more than 70 different tests have been conducted on the vehicle and individual chassis components. Modern CAE techniques and CAD systems have been applied during the development of the chassis and comprehensive data logging and analysis have been undertaken. The gearbox has undergone extensive test miles, resulting in an optimum shift feel, reliability of engagement, quiet notch-free selection, and perfect ratio spacing. These motorcycles have been tested for real-world riding conditions in both Europe and India.

In terms of pricing, the closest rivals to the 650 twins will be the KTM Duke 390. In terms of specifications, the closest rivals to the RE 650 twins are the Kawasaki Z650, Ninja 650, Kawasaki Versys 650, Harley-Davidson Street 750, and the Harley-Davidson Street Rod. Rest assured, the 650 Twins from Royal Enfield are two of the cheapest 650cc motorcycles on sale in India.

Are you thinking of buying one? Let us know your opinions at autotodayofficial@gmail.com.

====== 266 ========

IN PICTURES | ROYAL ENFIELD 650 TWINS

Royal Enfield has been readying itself for the launch of its most awaited motorcycles in the Indian market, the 650 twins. Royal Enfield will be launching the India pricing details today.

Although the pricing for the Interceptor 650 and the Continental GT 650 have been announced for the American and European markets, Royal Enfield is yet to divulge any hints about the India pricing. Based on the conversation we had with a number of dealers across India, the 650 twins are slated to be priced at around Rs 2.8-3.5 lakh.

Before the gorgeous duo goes on the launch floor, we bring you some epic shots of the two motorcycles here.

====== 267 ========

MARUTI SUZUKI ERTIGA BOOKINGS OPEN AHEAD OF NOVEMBER 21 LAUNCH

The Maruti Suzuki Ertiga has been spotted quite a few times already. After Suzuki unveiled the facelifted Ertiga MUV in Indonesia at the International Motor Show, Maruti Suzuki is slated to launch the much-awaited MPV in the Indian car market on November 21.

We had reported about bookings for the MPV which had already begun at the dealership level for a token amount ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 11,000. Now Maruti Suzuki has confirmed details about the start of bookings. Official bookings can be made by paying a token amount of Rs 11,000, and with deliveries starting by the last week of November, or the first week of December.

The new Ertiga gets all-new head LED lamps with DRLs, sitting on either side of a revised grille. The grille is not a single-slat one anymore, but more sophisticated with added chrome units. The front bumper has been changed too with aggressive fog lamp housings and front lip and added black mesh. In comparison to the current gen Ertiga, it looks very different and will look different than the current gen Dzire and the Swift as well.

The rear gets a massive revamp as well. Gone are the standard halogen tail lamps, and enter new LED tail lamps which looks aggressive and stretches all the way to the C-pillar. The rear bumper looks revised as well. Other new changes multi-spoke alloys, keyless entry, and turn indicators on ORVMs.

The interior remains almost the same as the Dzire. Features include tilt steering, touchscreen infotainment, dual-airbags on all variants, ISOFIX seats, ABS with Electronic Brake Distribution and Stability Control. However, only the ESP GX variant, which we are guessing is the top-spec variant for the Indonesian market, will be getting stability control.

Under the hood, the Ertiga will be powered by a 1.5-liter petrol, 4-cylinder engine which churns out 104.7bhp and 138Nm of torque. The engine has been developed in-house by Suzuki. The engine will be mated to a 5-speed manual and a 4-speed automatic transmission.

Maruti Suzuki's latest HEARTECT platform which currently underpins the Baleno, Swift and the Dzire will also underpin the upcoming Maruti Suzuki Ertiga. The MPV is slated to get automatic gearbox options for both its petrol and diesel variant, although Maruti Suzuki still has to confirm this.

====== 268 ========

TOP SAFEST CARS IN INDIA YOU CAN BUY RIGHT NOW FOR UNDER RS 10 LAKH

The auto market in India is filled with a lot of options today. With the number of people moving on the roads increasing day by day, the sense of safety keeps steadily reducing. Unfortunately, in the Indian car market, the major emphasis is given on the price, cost to run, mileage, and performance while safety takes a backseat. The idea of a safe car is coming up, slowly but steadily.

In a report from the transport ministry released in September last year, the stats showed as many as 17 people died in 55 road accidents per hour on an average in 2017, with more than 50 per cent of the victims from the 18-35 age group. The report also stated one major fact - the overall number of accidents declined by 4.1 per cent from last year, but fatalities went up by 3.2 per cent.

With such stats, we can assume that buying a car with adequate safety features should be on top of the list. Now, almost every car that is being sold in India right now gets a safety rating from Global NCAP (National Car Assessment Program). Global NCAP is a UK based company which focuses on the promotion of public health and safety, and consumer safety in vehicles.

NCAP results can be used as a datum point to evaluate the structural integrity of the vehicle, vehicular impact on passengers, and possible injuries or fatalities at the time of a collision. Recent NCAP tests have shown Indian car manufacturers to make safe cars to earn up to 4 stars, but for a pan-market basis in the automotive segment, the thought process of buying a safer car than a cheaper one is yet to develop.

We believe the readers can think for themselves so here are the top safest cars you can buy in India right now.

Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza

This is the latest addition. Maruti Suzuki's compact SUV, the Vitara Brezza scored an impressive 4-star rating in the latest series of crash tests conducted by the Global New Car Assessment Program. The results were made public on Thursday at the inaugural Global NCAP World Congress which is being held in Delhi.

The variant of the Vitara Brezza which was tested came with standard dual-airbags, ABS with Electronic Brake Distribution, and ISOFIX anchorages. The car received 4-stars in Adult Occupant Protection whereas received two stars for Child Occupant Protection. According to the GNCAP report, the Adult Occupant Protection was good and robust. Also mentioned in the report is the Child Occupant Protection received two stars because of the forward facing position of the 18-month old dummy in the test, but a 3-year old dummy received good protection.

The Vitara Brezza is powered by a 1.3-litre turbo diesel powerplant which churns out 89bhp and 200Nm of peak torque. The powerplant is mated to a 5-speed manual, or a 5-speed AMT or AGS, as called by Maruti Suzuki. Prices for the Brezza start at Rs 7.58 lakh, ex-showroom.

Renault Duster

This model from the French manufacturer started the trend of compact SUVs in the Indian market since its launch in 2012. The Renault Duster scored 3 stars in the NCAP tests. The model used is the one with a single driver airbag.

The Duster went through a mid-lifecycle update in 2016 and is among the dominant market leaders right now. The Duster is currently offered in diesel and petrol variants.

The Duster is powered by a 1.5-litre diesel which is available in two states of tune - 84bhp/200Nm and 108bhp/240Nm. The petrol variant is powered by a 1.6-litre engine which belts out 102bhp and 145Nm of torque. The lower power diesel model and petrol are mated to a 5-speed manual gearbox. The higher power diesel variant is mated to a 6-speed manual gearbox. The latest addition is the automated manual transmission (AMT) available with the 108bhp diesel variant but without AWD.

Prices for the Duster start at Rs 7.95 for the petrol, and Rs 8.95 lakh for the diesel variant, ex-showroom.

Volkswagen Polo

The Polo initially secured zero stars at the first test. However, in the second test, the hatchback recorded a 4-star rating. The German carmaker quickly addressed these issues and now the car has got dual airbags, starting from the base Trendline model.

The Polo sold in India is powered by a 999cc, 4-cylinder petrol which churns out 75bhp of power and 95Nm of torque. There is also a diesel variant on offer which is powered by a 1.5-litre engine belting out 89bhp and 230Nm of torque. The powertrains are mated to a 5-speed manual.

Prices for the Polo start at Rs 5.53 lakh for petrol and Rs 7.04 lakh for the diesel variant, ex-showroom.

Also, the Polo is sold in GT TSI and GT TSI Sport, which is powered by a 1.2-litre petrol and churns out 103bhp and 175Nm of torque. The powertrain is mated to a 7-speed DSG automatic gearbox.

Toyota Etios Liva

We are not new to the fact that Toyota makes one of the strongest cars in many markets across the globe. Remember when the Top Gear trio tried killing a Toyota Hilux pickup and failed. But we don't have the Hilux here. However, the Etios Liva is one of the cheapest cars to buy in India which also gets a 4-star safety rating. The Etios Liva gets dual airbags as standard.

The Etios Liva can be bought in petrol and diesel variants. The petrol variant is powered by a 1.2-litre engine which churns out 79bhp of power and 104Nm of torque. The diesel variant is powered by a 1.4-litre engine which churns out 67bhp and 170Nm of torque. Both the powertrains are mated to a 5-speed gearbox.

Prices for the Etios Liva start at Rs 5.48 lakh for petrol, and Rs 6.76 lakh for diesel, ex-showroom.

Mahindra XUV500

When Mahindra launched the premium SUV back in 2011, one of the major highlights of the premium SUV was that it had a monocoque chassis. For readers who don't know what a monocoque chassis is - a single shell. For chassis made in a single molded shell, with no internal frame. Monocoque chassis are regarded as safer and more stronger considering the vehicle body is integral to the frame, as opposed to body-on-frame construction.

The model tested (W11 AWD) received 4 stars in the ANCAP test which is the Australian variant of the NCAP tests. The model testes are the same one in the Indian market and get 6 airbags, and Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) as standard. It also gets Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-Force Distribution (EBD), Electronic Stability Program (ESP), Traction Control, and Hill Descent Control. However, the W11 AWD model has priced at Rs 17.85 lakh, ex-showroom.

However, the point to be noted here is the XUV500's structural integrity. The SUV scored 16 out of 16 points in the side-impact test which checks the structural integrity in case of side-collision.

The XUV is powered by a 2.2-litre mHawk 4-cylinder diesel which churns out 155bhp and 360Nm and can be availed in a 6-speed manual and 6-speed automatic. The petrol variant is powered by a 2.2-litre 4-cylinder which produces 140bhp and 320Nm of torque and is mated to a 6-speed automatic. There is no manual option.

Prices for the XUV500 start at Rs 12.39 lakh for the diesel variant and Rs 15.50 lakh, ex-showroom for the petrol variant.

Hyundai Creta

One of the successful models from the Korean manufacturer for the Indian market, the Hyundai Creta has taken the premium compact SUV market by storm. The car got a very commendable 4-star rating in the Latin NCAP tests. The vehicle tested was similar to the Indian variant, and featured two airbags.

The Creta currently sold in the Indian market is similar to the one sold in Brazilian markets and is powered by a two engine option - petrol and diesel. The petrol variant gets a 1.6-litre, 4-cylinder engine churning out 123bhp and 151Nm of torque. The diesel variant gets 2 diesel options which include a 1.4-litre and 1.6-litre engine options which generate 89bhp and 126bhp and are mated to a six-speed manual and a 6-speed automatic option.

Prices for the Creta start at Rs 9.43 lakh for the petrol, and Rs 9.99 lakh, ex-showroom for the diesel variant.

Ford Aspire

Ford recently came out with the facelifted compact sedan, the Figo Aspire. Priced at Rs 5.55 lakh, ex-showroom, the model secured a three-star rating in the Adult Occupant Protection criteria.

The Ford Aspire facelift is powered by a 1.2-litre, three-cylinder TiVCT petrol from the Dragon series churning out 96bhp powerplant which can be found on the current gen Freestyle. The Aspire also comes powered with the 123bhp, 1.5-litre, four-cylinder TDCi diesel engine on offer. Transmission duties will be done by a 5-speed manual gearbox. Ford, however, did not bring the diesel-automatic combo to the Indian market at launch. The only automatic petrol combo can be availed in the Titanium trim and is priced at Rs 8.49 lakh, ex-showroom. The petrol AMT is powered by the 1.5-litre TiVCT engine and is mated to a 6-speed AMT unit. All variants get dual-airbags, ABS and EBD as standard.

The Figo Aspire will face off against the recently launched Honda Amaze (Rs 5.81-9.11 lakh), segment leader Maruti Suzuki Dzire (Rs 5.60-9.45 lakh), Hyundai Xcent (Rs 5.61-8.61 lakh) and the VW Ameo (Rs 5.62-10.01 lakh).

====== 269 ========

MAHINDRA MARAZZO AT RS 9.99 LAKH, HERE'S ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW

Mahindra has launched its much-awaited MPV Marazzo. Initially known as the U321, Mahindra's newly launched MPV gets its official name as the Marazzo which is derived from a word in the Basque language, also known as a shark.

The Mahindra Design Studio and Italian design house Pininfarina have collaborated closely during the design development process and the design language used in the Marazzo.

Its shark-inspired design is evident in the streamlined and aerodynamic shape, in the overall silhouette and in the front grille inserts which resemble shark-like teeth and adds to the vehicle's aggressive stance. The design cues further flow into the tail lamps that are inspired by the tail of a shark.

Marazzo has been engineered through a collaboration between Mahindra North America Technical Centre (MNATC) and Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) in Chennai.

The Marazzo comes with a 7-seater and 8-seater configuration on the options, alongside a captain seat. The Marazzo MUV also gets a two-tone dashboard with faux aluminum trims, chrome-finished air-con vents, and piano black finish.

The Marazzo also gets top-notch features like controls on the steering wheel, automatic climate control system, three rows of air-con, added to a current-gen XUV500 touchscreen infotainment system, cruise control, and sunshade for second-row passengers.

The Marazzo is powered by Mahindra's all-new 4-cylinder, 1.5-litre diesel engine from the brand's mFalcon series of engines. The all-new turbocharged engine makes around 130bhp and comes mated to a 6-speed manual gearbox with a possible optional automatic-spec gearbox for future models.

The Marazzo from Mahindra is expected to come with the traditional Mahindra grille - similar to the XUV. The MUV has as of now been spotted with heavy camouflaging being tested on the roads of India. However, the Marazzo will get a three-box design with the A-pillar as forward as possible to maximize interior space.

The Mahindra Marazzo MUV gets a low-floored cabin despite getting a body-on-frame construction. The MUV also gets a shortened version of the typical Mahindra grille alongside wraparound headlamps with LED DRLs (possibly only on higher-spec trims), LED tail lamps, and 16-inch 5-spoke alloys, again only on higher trims.

The MUV from Mahindra sits right in the middle of the Maruti Suzuki Ertiga and the Toyota Innova in terms of size and is priced at Rs 9.99 lakh, ex-showroom, depending on the trim level. The base variant is the M2. The M4 variant costs Rs 10.95 lakh, M6 costs Rs 12.40 lakh, and the top-spec variant M8 costs Rs 13.90 lakh, ex-showroom. The MUV will also compete with the likes of rivals like Renault Lodgy and the new gen Honda BR-V.

Considering Mahindra has already stated that there will be three launches for the 2018 year, the Mahindra Marazzo is one of the three. The Indian based car manufacturing major has also planned to bring its Ssangyong Tivoli-based compact SUV which will be pitted against the likes of the Tata Nexon, and the Ford EcoSport and the all-new Mahindra badged Ssangyong Rexton to rival the Toyota Fortuner and the Ford Endeavour.

====== 270 ========

HYUNDAI ELANTRA FACELIFT REVEALED, INDIA LAUNCH NEXT YEAR

Hyundai it seems has gone all out with the design of its premium sedan Elantra which is also incidentally one of the bestsellers of the Korean car major's product range globally. The facelifted Elantra is slated to be launched in the Indian car market sometime next year. Once launched, the facelifted Elantra will compete against the likes of the Toyota Corolla Altis, the new Honda Civic, and the Skoda Octavia.

In terms of changes on the sedan, it is pretty much noticeable considering Hyundai has changed the design language of the Elantra. The facelifted Elantra now gets a totally revised front end with a new grille, new headlamps, revised bumper and fog lamp housings. The alloy wheels are redesigned and now look sportier. For the Indian market, the facelifted Elantra sedan will more or less remain unchanged. Elantra will continue to sit in the D-Segment space with pricing similar to the current model which costs Rs 13.65 lakh onwards, ex-showroom.

On the rear, the Elantra gets new tail lamps and a newly redesigned bumper. The registration plate has been moved from the boot lid to the bumper area. On the interior, the Elantra gets a new 8-inch touchscreen infotainment system which is compatible with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay.

In terms of safety, the Elantra facelift gets a blind-spot monitoring system, forward collision warning system, automatic emergency braking, lane departure warning alongside active lane control and a rearview camera with cross traffic alert. The features are decent but all of them may not make it to the Indian market.

In the Indian car market, Hyundai sells the Elantra with a 2-liter, naturally aspirated petrol engine which churns out 148bhp. There is also a 1.6-litre turbocharged diesel on offer which belts out 126bhp. Both engines are mated to a 6-speed manual and torque converter automatic gearbox variants.

====== 271 ========

ROYAL ENFIELD 650 TWINS PRICING TO START LESSER THAN KTM 390 DUKE

Royal Enfield has unveiled the US pricing for its 650 twins which is the Interceptor and the Continental GT. The price of the Interceptor is from USD 5,799 onwards (approximately Rs 4.21 lakh), and the price for the Continental GT starts from USD 5,999 (approximately Rs 4.36 lakh). However, these are the base prices for the motorcycles. Royal Enfield has offered a host of customizations and color schemes which will increase the price of the motorcycles. The Royal Enfield Interceptor and the Continental GT are slated to come to India by the end of this year. In terms of pricing, there are various reports floating online which points towards the fact that the RE 650 twins price range will start lesser than the KTM 390 Duke in the Indian motorcycle market which is priced at Rs 2.90 lakh, on road.

Royal Enfield Interceptor 650. Photo: AutoToday

The Interceptor in the United States is priced differently according to the trim level. For instance, the Custom Trim Interceptor is priced at USD 5,999 (around Rs 4.36 lakh), and USD 6,499 (around Rs 4.72 lakh) for the Chrome variant. In the same manner, the Custom Continental GT variant is priced at USD 6,249 (around Rs 4.53 lakh) and USD 6,749 (around Rs 4.91 lakh) for the Custom and Chrome variant.

The Interceptor 650 looks like a Roadster and gets an all-new, dedicated steel-tube cradle chassis. The Interceptor also gets wide-braced handlebars. The motorcycle is equipped with classic 18-inch front and rear Pirelli tires and twin shock absorbers, along with front and rear disc brakes with ABS. The Interceptor 650 also gets a ground clearance of 174mm and a seat height of 804 mm.

The twin motorcycles are powered by RE's own 650cc twin engine. The new platform is a single overhead cam (SOHC), 8 valves, air/oil cooled, 648cc parallel twin which produces 47bhp and 52Nm. The engine is slated to get a strong low and mid-range performance, which retains the Royal Enfield's accessible torque through the rev range. Also new to the Royal Enfield Interceptor 650 is the six-speed gearbox which has been developed for this motorcycle. The gearbox is supported by its slip/assist clutch which prevents wheel-hop when downshifting gears at high speeds.

Royal Enfield 650cc Parallel Twin Engine. Photo: AutoToday

Also, Royal Enfield's all-new Continental GT 650 retains its central cafe racer character with added engineering and design improvements.

It shares its engine, chassis and running parts with its twin, the Interceptor 650, while it offers completely different ergonomics and style. The motorcycle has a front leaning stance. The Continental GT 650 also gets a mid-level 3-piece clip-on handlebar and gets a standard 12.5-litre fuel tank capacity.

The Interceptor 650 and the Continental GT 650 get disc brakes on the front and the rear with ABS. The upswept exhaust and rear-set footrests give the motorcycle a massive lean angle, essential for a cafe racer. The motorcycle also gets a single seat, sculpted tank, and clip-on bars.

Royal Enfield Interceptor 650. Photo: AutoToday

While the standard range of color which takes inspiration from the motorcycles of the 50s and the 60s, the custom range is a bolder and retro version of graphics and colors. The Interceptor 650 comes in Orange Crush and the Ice Queen Continental GT 650 were displayed at EICMA last year.

The two motorcycles have already been subjected to various lab and bench tests, in addition to being tested on race tracks and public roads. With over one million kms of testing prior to production, more than 70 different tests have been conducted on the vehicle and individual chassis components. Modern CAE techniques and CAD systems have been applied during the development of the chassis and comprehensive data logging and analysis have been undertaken. The gearbox has undergone extensive test miles, resulting in an optimum shift feel, reliability of engagement, quiet notch-free selection, and perfect ratio spacing. These motorcycles have been tested for real-world riding conditions in both Europe and India.

Also read: Next Interceptor and Continental will be problem free, says Siddharth Lal

====== 272 ========

ROYAL ENFIELD LAUNCHES CLASSIC SIGNALS 350 AIRBORNE BLUE AND STORMRIDER SAND

Royal Enfield has launched the Classic Signals 350 motorcycle in two new colors in India. Conceived as a tribute to Royal Enfield's 65 years of association with the Indian armed forces (since 1952) the Classic Signals 350 is inspired by the Enfields that have been in service, and the men and women who ride them.

Expanding Royal Enfield's offering in the 350cc segment and building on the military heritage, the Classic Signals 350 will be available in two colors - Airborne Blue and Stormrider Sand. These new motorcycles will be available with a dedicated collection of gear and over 40 motorcycle accessories that include panniers and steel engine guards.

Launching the Classic Signals 350 motorcycles, Rudratej (Rudy) Singh - President Royal Enfield said "We have been associated with Indian Armed Forces since in the early 1950's and continue to be the largest supplier of motorcycles to the armed forces till date. Inspired by this association we are happy to launch the Classic Signals 350 Airborne Blue and Stormrider Sand; two motorcycles that represent our pride of partnering with the men and women who guard our skies and our land."



The two new color schemes - Airborne Blue and Stormrider Sand of the Classic Signals have taken inspiration from coveted units of the Indian Armed Forces. These motorcycles will sport a distinctive stenciled number on the tank representing the production number. Each motorcycle will have a unique number, making each of them an exclusive and one-of-its-kind motorcycles. The Classic Signals 350 stands out complimented by its blacked out scheme on the engine, silencer and wheels and dark tan seat.

With the Classic Signals 350, Royal Enfield will introduce Dual Channel Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS) for its customers. The dual-channel ABS helps prevents wheel locking under sudden application of brakes providing riders with better braking efficiency.

Revealing the price of the Classic Signals 350 motorcycles Shaji Koshy - Head India Business+, Royal Enfield said "Classic Signals 350 will be available for bookings from August 28th onwards, across all stores in India. The motorcycle will be retailed at a price of Rs 161,728 (ex-showroom Chennai). Our consumers can also choose from a collection of Genuine Motorcycle Accessories, all of which will come with a 2-year warranty."

An array of Gear, inspired by the celebrated motorcycling legacy, ranging from shirts, t-shirts, caps, lapel pins, bags and helmets will also be available. There will be more than 40 Genuine Motorcycle Accessories. These will include heavy-duty water-resistant military panniers, a wide range of durable steel engine guards, touring seats with 3D mesh technology for increased comfort, windshield kit for increased wind protection, durable and corrosion resistant solo rear racks and cast aluminum wheels and many more to choose from.

====== 273 ========

TOP 5 AFFORDABLE ABS-EQUIPPED MOTORCYCLES FOR YOU

With the ABS feature now mandatory in India from April 2019 for bikes with a 125CC or a more powerful engine, the manufacturers have started the process of making motorcycles with Anti-Lock Brakes System (ABS) as standard some models. This is a useful safety feature which has a potential to be the difference between life and death in case of an accident.

We think the idea of making ABS mandatory in motorcycle above 125cc is a smart move. However, in a market like India where safety takes a backseat and factors like mileage, value for money, budget (of course) takes the front line, the inclusion of ABS feature in mid-range commuter motorcycles will increase the cost of the motorcycle.

Yet, gradually we have started seeing manufacturers coming out with relatively affordable bikes that have the ABS features. There was a time when KTM Duke 390 was the cheapest motorcycle to have the feature. But that, despite the tag of its "cheapest ABS bike" used to cost Rs 2.6 lakh on road. Now there are bikes with ABS under Rs 1.5 lakh. Here are five ones that you should check out in case you want a motorcycle which has ABS feature and cheap as well.

Suzuki Gixxer ABS

The latest motorcycle on this list is also the cheapest. Suzuki has launched the Gixxer with the ABS feature for prices starting at Rs 87,250, ex-showroom and it comes with ABS feature.

The Gixxer is powered by a 4-stroke single-cylinder 154.9cc, BS-4 compliant engine which churns out 14.8bhp and 14Nm of torque. The Gixxer, apart from single-channel ABS, gets the standard feature list which contains AHO headlamps, LED tail lamps, digital speedo, front and rear disc brakes, with an added single stack twin exhaust.

Suzuki Gixxer ABS

Suzuki Gixxer SF Fi

The Gixxer SF Fi is the faired version of the Gixxer naked motorcycle. Going by the name, the motorcycle gets the same single-cylinder 154.9cc fuel-injected engine as the Gixxer naked motorcycle, with fuel-injection being the extra feature.

The Gixxer SF Fi gets single-channel ABS, alongside AHO headlamps, LED tail lamps, digital speedo, front and rear disc brakes, with a single-sided twin exhaust.

The Gixxer SF Fi is priced at Rs 1.03 lakh, ex-showroom and is available in three shades Metallic Triton Blue, Glass Sparkle Black, and Orange Black.

Suzuki Gixxer SF Fi

TVS Apache RTR 180 ABS

One of the fastest motorcycles from TVS, the aggressive looking motorcycle gets sleek design elements. The Apache RTR 180 ABS gets LED DRLs with pilot lamps. There are aerodynamic designs on the front cowl, tank extensions added with a blue-backlit instrument console.

The Apache RTR 180 ABS is powered by a single-cylinder 177.4cc engine which churns out 17.03bhp and 15.5Nm of torque. The powertrain is mated to a 5-speed gearbox with company claimed a top speed of 124kmph. The highlight of this motorcycle is not the ABS, but the fact that you can switch off the ABS feature to prevent it from kicking in during controlled sliding. The Apache RTR 180 ABS is priced at Rs 91,812, ex-showroom and is available in Black, White, Grey Matte, and Matte Blue shade.

TVS Apache RTR 180 ABS

Suzuki Intruder 150 ABS/Fi

Suzuki Motorcycles launched the 150cc version of its biggest cruiser motorcycle, the 1,800cc Intruder. However, under the tank, the Intruder is powered by a Gixxer-sourced 155cc unit, and even gets the same chassis, swingarm, and even the same rake angle. The engine is mated to a 5-speed gearbox. Power figures are identical to the Gixxer SF Fi/Gixxer as well.

The Intruder 150 comes loaded with single-channel ABS which works on the front wheel. The Intruder is priced at Rs 1.01 lakh, ex-showroom.

The Intruder 150 Fi is essentially the same motorcycle as the Suzuki Intruder 150 ABS and gets fuel-injection as standard, along with Anti-lock Braking System.

Prices for the Intruder Fi ABS starts at Rs 1.07 lakh, ex-showroom.

Suzuki Intruder 150 ABS/Fi

Bajaj Pulsar RS200

Bajaj's answer to the fully-faired motorcycle market, the RS200 fully-faired motorcycle for the Indian market. Previously called the SS200, the motorcycle has given the Indian motorcycle manufacture a new player for the sub 250cc motorcycle segment.

The design of the RS200 is not fully-committed motorcycle like the Yamaha R15 V3, or the Apache 300. The riding stance is upright with slight-forward lean angles to give that sporty feel. The RS200 is powered by the NS200 sourced engine, mated to a 6-speed gearbox. The RS200 gets dual-projector headlamps with a large fairing which makes the motorcycle look muscular.

Prices for the RS200 start at Rs 1.26 lakh, ex-showroom.

Bajaj Pulsar RS200

====== 274 ========

JEEP COMPASS TRAILHAWK LAUNCH SCHEDULED FOR LATE 2018

We have disappointing news for people who have been waiting restlessly for the Trailhawk to be launched - the wait just got longer. The launch of the off-road version of the off-road Compass has been pushed towards the end of this year with sales starting then, according to a number of Jeep dealerships.

We had reported in previously that Jeep is gearing up to launch the Compass Trailhawk in India. In earlier news, the Compass Trailhawk India-spec Trailhawk was spotted at a dealership meet and was expected to go on sale soon after. The Jeep Compass Trailhawk is already manufactured for other right-hand drive markets like Japan and Australia.

The reason here for the delay in launch could be engine recalibration into the upcoming BS-VI norms which kicks in 2020.

The Trailhawk is the top-spec variant in the Compass range and comes with a host of more offroading features than the standard top-spec Compass. The Trailhawk gets Jeep's Active Drive Low-range 4WD technology which helps in serious offroading. The Trailhawk also gets a new 'Rock mode' for its Selec-Terrain 4WD system. The Trailhawk has a higher ground clearance than the standard Compass.

The Trailhawk gets the same 2.0-litre diesel motor which churns out 173bhp, mated to a nine-speed automatic gearbox and sends power to all the four wheels.

Bookings for the Trailhawk have already commenced with Jeep dealers stating an increase of Rs 2.5 lakh over the current standard Compass for the Compass Trailhawk. The Compass Trailhawk is expected to be priced around Rs 32 lakh, ex-showroom.

====== 275 ========

TOYOTA PLANS TO DEBUT VIOS AT 2018 AUTO EXPO

Toyota is planning to debut its Vios sedan at the Auto Expo next month. Known as Yaris Ativ in outside markets, the Vios has been in the pipeline for long. Upon its launch, the Vios sedan will be rivalling other segment leaders like the Honda City, Maruti Suzuki Ciaz, Hyundai Verna, and the Volkswagen Vento.

Under the hood, the Vios will be powered by a 1.5-litre VVT-i petrol which produces 105bhp and 140Nm of torque. A diesel variant is also speculated, a 1.4-litre D-4D which produces 87bhp and 205Nm mated to a five-speed manual as standard with an optional CVT unit as well. A similar setup could be found on

the Corolla Altis.

The prices of the Vios will be competitive, between the 8-12 lakh bracket, and combine that with Toyota's rock-solid build, the Vios could be Toyota's crazy diamond in the midst of serious players, giving them a run for their money.

====== 276 ========

FORD MAY UNVEIL NEW COMPACT UTILITY VEHICLE SOON

Ford may be planning to let loose its new vehicle, also called Compact Utility vehicle (CUV). Although the company has not yet confirmed what the new CUV could be, we expect the model to be the new Figo Cross which was spotted a few weeks back in India.

However, the CUV is not as same as the crossover which means there could be another vehicle which could be the Ford Kuga, which is also slated to debut this year.

In the engine department, we expect the CUV to get Ford's all-new 1.2-litre petrol engine from the Dragon series which belts out 90bhp. Also on offer is a 1.5-litre diesel belting out 100bhp, paired with a 5-speed manual or Ford's all-new 6-speed automatic gearbox.

In accordance with the spy pics, the CUV does look very much like the Figo on a protein diet. The roofline looks distinctly similar, with the lines from the front to the back, ending to its slight overhang boot lid. The silhouette looks very similar to Ford's Ka Trail which is not available in India and could be Ford's next launch, as the Compact Utility Vehicle. Fingers crossed!

====== 277 ========

BMW 6-SERIES GT FIRST DRIVE: THE NAMESAKE

For starters, this car has nothing in common with the 6-Series Gran Coupe it succeeds. It has far more in common with the new 5-Series and 7-Series, which use the Cluster Architecture (CLAR) platform. To wit, it looks like the new-gen G30 5-Series. The plot thickens when you realise that under its skin, its the same as the 7-Series! At least, its got the same wheelbase as the regular 7 sold abroad since India gets the stretched long-wheelbase version. The question that begs to ask, then. Why isnt it called a 5 GT?

BMWs naming convention stipulates that odd model numbers are for sedans or SUVs, while even model numbers are for sporty models or coupes. And the 6 GT definitely possesses the roofline of a coupe. The roof blends into a short deck lid and contoured tail lights, to help reduce visual bulk at the rear. When viewed in profile, or the rear, the roofline can actually look quite fetching.

Its only when viewed from the front three-quarters that you notice that proportions are skewed, with the rear looking much too heavy for the sleek, low nose which is the design highlight of the G30. Changes to the 6 GT include elements that enhance aerodynamics, including an active grille, front air dam, side vents and of course the electric spoiler that raises at speeds above 110kmph. BMW claims a coefficient of drag of 0.28.

The India spec car is fitted with 18-inch wheels and 245/50 section Bridgestones, presumably in the interest of ride quality. Larger wheels, as on international spec models do help remedy the top-heavy look. Though it must be said, the benefits of the roofline can be seen to outweigh the looks, depending on whos looking. Boot space is up from 530 litres in the 5-Series, to 610 litres and space is intrusion free.

Inside, its familiar territory as the 5-Series and everything feels impeccably put together. Theres a 10.2-inch central touchscreen with BMWs latest iDrive interface, featuring gesture control to adjust volume through the standard 12 speaker audio system. Most importantly, the 6 GT is wider than the 5, with a 100mm wheelbase stretch. The rear bench is, thus, expansive has outstanding under-thigh support and knee room is more than luxurious. If crossed legs while seated were a sign of power, consider the rear seats to be your throne because that is a feat thats easily doable in the 6 GT. The seat backs also recline electrically, taking the potential for comfort up several notches.

For now, the 6 GT is only available as the 630i, meaning it has a 2-litre turbo petrol under the hood, the same as on the 530i. So while the engine is familiar, power/torque figures are up by 6bhp and 50Nm respectively. It comes mated to an 8-speed torque converter automatic and the box offers up quick and smooth shifts.

Its also smart enough to downshift twice if you put the right amount of pressure on the pedal to execute an overtake. The power always felt adequate to make progress, even when a more brisk pace was asked for. Considering the slightly higher torque figure at the same low 1,500rpm, the 6 GT also seems like its more relaxed. BMW claims a fuel efficiency figure of 14.3kmpl for the 6 Series GT. Coupled with a 68-litre tank capacity, that should equal a range of well over 900km.

You know its a more comfort-oriented car than the 5 though, considering theres a Comfort+ driving mode, instead of the expected Sport+. Speaking of ride quality, the 6 Series GT rides on self-levelling air suspension all around. The system can offer up to 20mm of lift when the need arises. The adaptive driving mode adjusts the air suspension and tricks active anti-roll bars at the rear to respond to road conditions and driving styles, in real time.

Ride quality is pliant and only the sharpest of joins in the road come through with a thud. The variable ratio steering can go from light and slightly twitchy at speed to heavier and more composed, depending on the mode. In fact, the Sport mode dramatically changes the attitude of the car, with everything seeming more buttoned down. Even then, there is some body-roll but thats only when attacking corners. The 6 GT exhibits safe characteristics, tending to understeer to let you know where the limits are. If pushed, the rear will step out a little before the electronics rein it in.

Verdict

Overall, if the coupe-like styling appeals to you, the 6-Series Gran Turismo is a great package. It has more space and standard features than a 5-Series and the air suspension does wonders for ride quality. At an ex-showroom price of Rs 58.9 lakh, it compares favourably with its competition, the long wheelbase Mercedes E-Class. The BMW 6 GT could be your car if you value space and practicality and enjoy the occasional drive without a chauffeur.

====== 278 ========

BMW M5 FIRST DRIVE: HOLY GRAIL!

This is a big deal. And heres why. BMWs new M5 is the first M division car to come with all-wheel drive, apart from the X5/X6 M SUVs. Thats breaking tradition, a rich motorsports-driven heritage that hung on to the front engine, rear-wheel drive formula to deliver the joy of driving. With 600bhp on tap in this new M5, that formula needed to be tweaked.

The answer came in the form of M tuned all-wheel drive or M x-Drive. For purists and fans of the BMW rear-wheel drive formula, were going to launch into tech geek mode.

The system, predominantly, sends torque to the rear wheels, using a clever clutch-based transfer case and an electronically locking differential (the Active M Differential) on the rear axle that can send between 0 to 100 per cent drive to a given wheel. If a slip is detected, torque can be diverted to the front wheels too.

The icing is on the differential drive modes. There are 4WD, 4WD Sport and 2WD modes. Yup, thats 2WD, as in 2 wheel drive, as in rear-wheel drive only. The system has the ability to disable the front axle completely, only sending power to the rear.

The driving modes are made further fun, by allowing the driver to only choose the latter with stability control turned completely off! And, lets remember this is 600bhp and 750Nm of torque were talking about.

The engine is essentially the same S63 4.4-litre block from the previous gen F10 M5 but with 40bhp more power. This is achieved through new turbos with larger compressors, higher pressure injectors and upgraded oil pumps. The power is no longer put down via a twin-clutch gearbox, instead, a ZF-sourced eight-speed torque converter is put into use. BMW says this was done since the pros of smoother shifts and better reliability outweighed the con of marginally slower shifts.

Confusingly, its based on the G30 5-Series but the new M5 is codenamed F90. Compared to the car its based on, it gets an inch wider track at the front and a carbon fibre reinforced plastic (CFRP) roof. This helps it weigh in at 1,930kg wet, which is 15kg lighter than the last gen F10 M5 even though its carrying the added weight of all-wheel drive.

This is a lot of mass for sure but the all-wheel drive helps cut the 0-100kmph time from 4.4 seconds to 3.4 seconds. Youd be surprised at the way the new M5 drives. We were.

At the first corner we attacked, with the M5 in 4WD mode with all the electric nannies watching, the car went into tyre-squealing understeer, then a controlled four-wheel drift when we got on the power. Okay, that vaguely front-heavy feel is typical of a high-performance all-wheel-drive car.

Time to set the dynamic stability control (DSC) to the more rear biased 4WD Sport and M Dynamic mode and try again. Only, this time, holy smokes! Halfway through the corner, with a sniff of throttle, the M5 was dancing around on its rear tyres! Staying on the throttle resulted in the car straightening out smoothly, with none of the abruptness that electronics usually end the party with.

These nannies sure make you feel like a driving god. We tried again with DSC switched off completely and the car made sure to let us know we werent. In 4WD Sport and 2WD modes, the M5 definitely rewards driver skill and punishes disrespect. So its not just a point-and-shoot supercar, though it can be.

Set in the regular 4WD and combined with the Comfort driving mode, you could be forgiven for thinking you were piloting a regular 5-Series. Sure, the ride is stiffer but not so much so that you dread every blemish on the tarmac. At speed on a less-than-perfect expressway, the M5 still felt buttoned down. The steering gets variable M-specific servo assist, that felt perfectly weighted and more in sync with a luxury sedan, despite the massive 20-inch wheels and wide rubber. Switch to the Sport mode and you also get a fair amount of feedback from the wheel and the car starts to handle direction changes in a way that belied its size.

The gearbox also lets you set three levels of ferocity with which it will shift but shifts are smooth and seamless throughout. Throttle response is outstanding and it just takes a nudge to go from 100kmph and 1,400rpm in top gear too much higher multiples of speed. If you take manual control of the gearbox, you can feel the turbo spool up to 1,800rpm, which is when peak torque comes in and pushes you back into the seat.

Even in fourth gear! We found ourselves squeezing down on the throttle just to see what breaking the sound barrier must feel like. This turn of speed really is something special, especially in a luxury sedan. What will also take some getting used to are the brakes.

The optional (and massive) carbon ceramics on our test car were slightly grabby but, of course, braking performance is stupendous. Coming to the elephant in the room, which is the discreet exhaust sound. Sure you can hear the angry V8 growl inside the car but thats helped by the stereo system piping sound into the cabin. For passersby, the M5 is barely discernible over traffic noise. Thats either a good thing or a bad thing, depending on how youre looking at it.

Incidentally, the M5 looks like it could be any other 5-Series, with larger wheels. The car we received does stand out but it is one out of just 400 First Edition cars, that come in the lovely Frozen Red paint with black wheels and dark trim.

In a more conservative colour, the M5 is definitely a car that will escape most peoples notice, except the ones who know and spot the more aggressive bumpers, side air vents and M badging. We think it goes well with the sleeper image the M5 has enjoyed over the years.

Inside, you get white upholstery and contrast stitching, with brilliantly supportive M Sport seats. The steering wheel, dials, heads-up display and gear lever all get M-specific cues and do enough to let you know youre driving something special.

Verdict

Full disclosure: I havent had the pleasure of driving the previous-gen M5 to compare. But the new M5 has proved to possess an uncanny balance going around corners, thats most unlike other high powered all-wheel-drive cars Ive driven. The engine certainly is one of the best Ive experienced so far. Whats most surprising is that neither ride comfort nor straight line performance has been compromised at the cost of the fun rear-wheel drive characteristics. It really is the ultimate do-it-all car.

====== 279 ========

MERCEDES BENZ S-CLASS FACELIFT FIRST DRIVE: THE BEST GETS BETTER

The Mercedes S-class has been at the top of the heap when it comes to luxury production cars but that has not prevented the company from giving it a mid-life face-lift four years after it was first launched in India back in 2014.

That of course was a huge leap forward for the model globally as it became the first car in the world to feature only LEDs both inside and outside, had an impressive array of driver and safety assistance systems, was more focused on comfort and luxury than ever before and included the magic body control suspension besides for the first time featuring many autonomous driving features.

However, in India, most of these features that relied on radar systems were deactivated due to the restriction of radar frequencies and we could not experience the full range of possibilities of the S-class.

All that has now changed with radar systems being active on the car but that is not all that has changed. While the V8 engine has moved up in terms of power and designation to 560 instead of the 500 globally, Mercedes India has decided to launch the refurbished S-class in India with only 6-cylinder engines, a V6 petrol and as a Mercedes first, an inline six diesel. While the petrol is designated 450, a step down from the 500, the diesel retains its 350 badging.

The 2,996cc petrol is a twin turbo unit and apart from the high 367bhp that it achieves at 5,500rpm and delivers up to 6,100rpm, thanks to twin turbocharging, it produces its peak 500Nm torque from 1,600rpm all the way up to 4,000rpm.

To drive, the petrol engine is great for Indian roads. With max torque coming in at so low in the rev range, it makes quick getaways in stop and go traffic conditions. No wonder it gets up to 100kmph in just over five seconds. We especially loved driving the car in the city and but it was good out of it as not only is the engine smooth but it gets up the rev range pretty quickly as well.

The 350 diesel, on the other hand, is the first inline six from Mercedes that we have seen and is also the most powerful diesel engine put into production by the German car maker. The 2,925cc engine produces max power of 286bhp and peak torque of 600Nm that again is generated from a low 1,200rpm. The best part of this diesel engine seems to be its NVH as there is no way that the occupants of the car can feel the car.

Besides it is comfortable to drive in the city as well though quick getaways are not as smooth in the city. But it does become the only diesel engine in the country to comply with Bharat Stage VI norms on Bharat Stage V fuel. This has been achieved with the addition of Ad-blue as well as a particulate filter. The Mercedes engineers say that the Ad-blue comes with its own 25-litre tank and will need to be topped up once annually when the car goes for its annual service.

The other big change is in the steering wheel which is all-new and now with touch button controls that are easier to use and look good. Even with the additional cruise control switches on it, overall the switchgear and the systems are easier to use than before.

The cabin continues to be class leading with the ottoman seat still one of the main draws as with the touch of a button the front passenger seat can be folded over forward and deploy a footrest while the rear left seat goes into a comfortable reclining position with a calf rest also coming up to support the legs.

The assistance systems will take some getting used to as the car responds frequently to things that are not even threats on Indian roads. The autonomous driving systems while working well in Europe still need to get up on speed on developing market road scenarios.

So while emergency braking can be a nuisance, it can definitely save lives if the car was in a situation where a collision is imminent. Cross traffic alert and pre-safe systems (especially if there is a collision from the rear) are welcome features.

Verdict

Mercedes has managed the mid-life facelift of the S-class rather well. While globally the changes may not be too many, the release of radar frequencies for cars means that this is a radically changed car. And while Mercedes has added a lot of technology to the car, it has maintained costs by switching to a lower spec engine for the flagship. Although it is an excellent car the mid-life changes are not wide-reaching and deep enough to keep it at the very top, once a competition car with a generation change makes its debut in India.

====== 280 ========

YAMAHA R15 VERSION 3.0 FIRST RIDE: THRICE AS NICE

The speed, power and technological advancements of a superbike make it what it is today. For manufacturers, not only is it the pinnacle of their technological advancement but also an expression and example of what the brand stands for. Such is the Yamaha YZF-R1. But for many who may not ever be able to ride, let alone own one, the fully faired motorcycle will always be a fabled creature, a unicorn of sorts. Hence, the need for making entry-level sportbikes a spitting image of their litre-class counterparts, helping attract newer riders to the sport. Talent, however, cannot be created, you either have it or you dont. And that holds true for motorcycles too, they either have it in them or they dont.

Behold the latest R15 Ver...Oh hang on, we put in the wrong picture! #oops

The first generation R15 had a few things going against it. The high price tag for a 150cc, R1/R6 from the front but under-tyred skinny, unassuming rear but these didnt stop it from becoming the weapon of choice for riders serious about performance riding. It set the base for many riders who have graduated onto bigger machines now. The second generation was to cater to the faction of riders for whom the aesthetic appeal is prime. In the process, the longer wheelbase and fatter rear tyre entirely compromised on what was so likeable about the first version - handling.

Version 3.0 however, has got it all. Cues from the latest YZF-R1 and R6 are evident, making the new R15 look fast even while standing still. Split LED lamps separated by an air-intake, feeding a variable valve timing equipped 155cc engine that promises to match the go with the show.

Although the quality of components seems a tad lower than before, some of the glaring bits being the welding marks on the Deltabox. In spite of this, theres absolutely nothing to fault the design with, its a top-class looker.

This pint-sized 155cc motor has not only grown in capacity from 149.8cc thanks to a 1mm wider bore but also gets more power. 16.3 per cent more to be precise and thats with the help of a larger air-box, 30mm intake port and the new VVA (Variable Valve Actuation) system. Using a solenoid to operate low and high-rpm cams, the VVA system ensures optimal low-end grunt under 7,400rpm while not sacrificing top-end performance at higher rpms.

All this looked good on PowerPoint as we were taken through the product briefing but only a ride on the new motorcycle would settle the anticipation. Rightly enough, the MMRT in Chennai was the chosen proving grounds, just as it was 10 years back when the first R15 was launched. Saddled up, this R15 feels compact yet accommodating.

The arms stretch out to the low-set clip-ons that are placed further from the triple clamp and levelled to it. The feet fall perfectly into place on the rear-set footpegs. The riding position feels committed, possibly a tad too much for the road but perfect for the track.

Theres a noticeable change from earlier in the way the engine builds up revs from a standstill. Theres no lugging in lower rpms and the new VVA system could maintain smoothness in fuelling even in fifth gear while doing 50kmph. Theres ample torque to help with the smooth acceleration. Once past the 7,000rpm mark though, redlining through the gears of the 6-speed transmission, the R15 displays a change of character and comes alive.

Between 7,000 and 10,000 revs, the engine has a lot of go and the rapid pace didnt even warrant the use of the sixth gear.

Throttle response is sharp while the rev limiter at 11,500rpm is soft in its cut-off. Even off throttle transitions inducing engine braking are smooth from higher rpms while downshifts are aided with a slip and assist clutch preventing rear wheel hop. It has to be mentioned that the engine and gearbox have the smoothness thats second to none in its segment.

The braking did leave a little to be desired with the absence of feel and feedback on the lever but the ride quality and handling left us impressed. The 41mm telescopic fork absorbs undulations at high speed swiftly, to not transmit shocks to the rider while even feeling taut around corners. The handling is neutral and forgiving with just a hint of aggressiveness at turn in due to the reduced trail and shorter swingarm. The R15 V3.0 retains stability at its peak velocity and is even easy to flick from side to side at pace.

Verdict

The handful of laps around the Chennai track left us yearning for more. That alone signifies that even through the years, the R15 retains its charm and want in its third iteration. While a test in road riding conditions will tell us more about commuting with the motorcycle, Yamaha is fully prepared for the varied uses that the bike will see. From track only exhaust and Metzeler rear tyre to frame sliders, USB port and even a skid plate, Yamaha will offer these as optional extras. But the sweetest part of the deal is the price tag that separates it from the competition as a unique offering.

====== 281 ========

GENEVA MOTOR SHOW: BUGATTI CHIRON, TATA EVISION, ASTON MARTIN, AND FERRARI IN PICS

Caption:

This is the Peugeot 508. The 508 has nothing to do with the amount of horsepower the engine has.

====== 282 ========

AUTO EXPO 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: NOTABLE MOTORCYCLE LAUNCHES FROM YAMAHA, SUZUKI, APRILIA, KAWASAKI, CLEVELAND CYCLEWERKS AND MORE

Facebook narrative:

The Auto Expo saw a lot of motorcycle launches and unveilings. From electric cruisers to electric superbikes, we have it all. Take a look.

====== 283 ========

AUTO EXPO 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: NOTABLE CAR LAUNCHES FROM KIA MOTORS SP SUV CONCEPT, BMW 6-SERIES, TATA 45X, TATAH5X, SUZUKI CONCEPT FUTURE S AND MORE

Caption:

The Honda Amaze is all-new here. The design on the exterior, and interior has all been changed. Its no more a Brio with a boot.

====== 284 ========

THE PIT BABES OF AUTO EXPO 2018

Caption:

One of the trusted brands in India, TVS, has showcased its electric bike TVS Creon in Auto Expo 2018. The scooter packs a punch as it goes from 0 to 60 km/hr in just 5 seconds, according to the company. TVS is tightlipped about its price as of now

====== 285 ========

AUTO EXPO 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: MARUTI SUZUKI UNVEILS CONCEPT FUTURE S, HYUNDAI LAUNCHES NEW I20, TATA UNVEILS H5X AND 45X CONCEPTS AND MORE

Caption:

The Honda Amaze facelift is one car we have been waiting for quite some time. This new facelift is no longer a Brio with an extended boot but an all-new car.

====== 286 ========

BMW CREATES GUINNESS WORLD RECORD, DRIFTS M5 FOR 374 KMS

The new F90 generation M5 is powered by a 4.4-litre V8 and is assisted by BMW's M TwinPower Turbo technology and belts out a

BMW's performance luxury sedan BMW M5 has entered the Guinness World Records for performing the longest drift by a vehicle for 8 hours continuously, covering a distance of 374.1 kms in that time.

The record was made possible by BMW's Performance Driving School Instructor Johan Schwartz, who drove around the skid pad, which was kept damp to facilitate the lengthy drift, at the BMW Performance Centre in South Carolina. To complete this task, the car went through five phases of refuelling while in mid-drift, which was again facilitated by another drift M5, driven by BMW Performance Center Chief Driving Instructor Matt Mullins, was used as a support vehicle.

This record made by BMW shattered a previous record owned by a Toyota GT86, which drifted for around 144.12kms in July 2014, and again 165.04kms in June 2017. To break the previous record, Schwartz had to do 549 laps of the skid pad but ended up doing over 2,000 laps.

Also, putting the cherry on the cake for the Bavarian automaker was another world record for the longest "Twin Vehicle Drift" (water-assisted), with two BMW M5s drifting 79.26kms over the course of an hour.

The new F90 generation M5 is powered by a 4.4-litre V8 and is assisted by BMW's M TwinPower Turbo technology and belts out a total of 600BHP and 700Nm of torque.

Watch the video here:

====== 287 ========

THIS GUY JUST BOUGHT AN APRILIA SR150 SCOOTER USING BITCOIN!

We had heard about the guy who bought himself a Lamborghini Huracan using only Bitcoins.

The number one cryptocurrency right now, Bitcoin, has been slowing finding new and new takers with many bizzare reports coming in from various parts of the world. We had heard about the guy who bought himself a Lamborghini Huracan using only Bitcoins. Now we have a report from CarToq, a person has just went and got himself the fastest scooter on sale in India right now, the Aprilia SR150, using bitcoins.

The person in question is Bunny Punia, CarToq's latest consulting editor and he has become the first Indian to buy an Aprlia SR150 using Bitcoins.

Here's what Bunny said, "I write on an online platform called Steemit, where fellow users of the website read my posts and can upvote it. Each upvote gives me Steem money/Steem dollars. I converted these Steem dollars to Bitcoin through a website called Bittrex.com and then transferred the Bitcoin to Indian rupees through an app called Zebpay. I used this money to make the downpayment for an Aprilia SR150, the fastest automatic scooter sold in India currently. While I've paid the rest of the money through my credit card, I plan to convert the amount into EMIs. I'll once again use my Steemit earnings to pay the EMIs. Effectively, I'll fund my entire Aprilia SR150 purchase through the hottest cryptocurrency currently, Bitcoin!"

The Aprilia SR150 is favoured by many young enthusiasts in India and is also the most powerful, with its 154cc four stroke motor putting out 10.2bhp and 11.4Nm of torque.

Prices of the scooter start at Rs 68,463, ex-showroom Delhi.

*heavy breathing*

Photo: CarToq

====== 288 ========

MARUTI SUZUKI CONCEPT FUTURE S: HERE'S WHY WE ARE EXCITED

Maruti Suzuki India will be showcasing its latest Concept Future S with an all new compact car design language at the Auto Expo 2018. Maruti had showcased the Brezza at the 2016 Auto Expo and this year is slated to go even bigger. According to the teaser image which Maruti Suzuki sent us, the car looks distinctly similar to an SUV with the high roof lines, massive C-pillar and an unique A-pillar, and with a slightly extended boot.

The Concept Future S gets an upright stance, commanding higher seating and decent ground clearance, considering this is an urban SUV. But this particular compact SUV will be lighter considering the Future Concept S will be manufactured on the versatile Heartect platform.

Also, it is likely that the engines from Ignis will be carried forward to the The compact SUV segment below the Vitara Brezza is relatively unused with only a handful of compact SUVs, Crossovers like the Etios Cross, Suzuki S-Cross, Renault Captur, Mahindra's KUV100 however have received a lukewarm response as compared to proper compact SUVs in the market like the Duster and EcoSport. There are other models as well which are slowing growing, and with the entry of the Concept Future S, the fight is going to get bigger considering various crossovers have to balance the best in two worlds, and compact SUVs will become the need of the hour.

Additionally, this new entrant from Maruti Suzuki means there will a fresh overhaul in the way compact SUVs are designed in India and will most likely spell a shift in the way compact cars are shaped and designed. According to the design team at Maruti Suzuki, the Concept Future S epitomizes the next level of design evolution in terms of design proportions, body sculpting, and fusion of bold patterns and superior accent colours.

Maruti Suzuki will be showcasing the Concept Future S for its public debut at the Delhi Auto Expo next month. More details on the Future Concept S are scarce but Maruti Suzuki will be revealing more in the days to come. Watch this space!

====== 289 ========

HALF OF INDIA'S ATMS MAY SHUT DOWN BY MARCH, SAYS REPORT

Half of the ATMs in India will be shut down by March next year. (File photo: YouTube)

Nearly 50 per cent of the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) may be shut down by March 2019 due to unviability of operations, hitting hard both urban and rural population, the Confederation of ATM Industry (CATMi) warned on Wednesday.

Currently, India has approximately 2,38,000 ATMs, of which around 1,13,000 ATMs including 1,00,000 off-site and more than 15,000 white label ATMs are expected to down their shutters, said a CATMi spokesperson.

"This would severely impact millions of beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana who withdraw subsidies in the form of cash through ATMs, besides urban centres, resulting in snaky queues and chaos akin to post-demonetisation," said the spokesperson.

He said the CATMi step is forced on account of recent regulatory guidelines for ATMs hardware and software upgrades, recent mandates on cash management standards and the Cassette Swap method of loading cash.The measure will also result in huge job losses in the industry that would be detrimental to financial services in the economy as a whole.

====== 290 ========

DEMONETISATION HIT FARMERS BADLY, AGRICULTURE MINISTRY TAKES 2 YEARS TO ADMIT

Opposition had said that the farmers and smaller business entities were the worst affected by demonetisation. (Photo: Reuters)

Two years after demonetisation, the Union agriculture ministry has admitted that the farmers were badly hit by the note ban. Demonetisation had made 86 per cent of existing currency (in denominations of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000) illegal tender. The farmers, particularly the smaller ones, depend on cash for the purchase of seeds and fertilisers.

The Narendra Modi government has maintained that demonetisation was a necessary step to curb black money and a successful exercise. It has defended demonetistion in the face of criticism by the Opposition who said that the farmers and smaller business entities were the worst affected.

Now, the Union agriculture ministry has admitted in a report that the note ban badly affected the farmers. In a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture acknowledged that due to the lack of cash, millions of farmers were unable to purchase seeds and fertilisers ahead of the rabi season.

The agriculture ministry informed the committee that when demonetisation was implemented, the farmers were either selling their kharif yield or sowing rabi crops. Demonetisation rendered all the cash they had in hand useless. This drastically affected the farmers, said the agriculture ministry report, which discusses the effects of demonetisation.

Even government seeds could not be sold, the report said further. Demonetisation also affected big farmers as they had to pay wages to the labourers working on their fields. But they went cash-strapped after demonetisation, the agriculture ministry report said.

The ministry said that due to the shortage of cash, about 1.38 lakh quintals of wheat seeds of the national seed corporation were not sold.

The government had later allowed the use of old notes of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 for the purchase of wheat seeds. But this relaxation did not improve the situation much.

However, the labour ministry, in its report to the committee, commended the demonetisation saying that the move saw an increase in employment data in the subsequent quarters.

In the standing committee meeting, the Opposition MPs criticised demonetisation and demanded that the government should provide data on the loss of employment in the micro, small and medium enterprises. The committee has 31 members including Congress stalwarts Veerappa Moily and Manmohan Singh.

With inputs from Himanshu Mishra

READ | What Modi's Man Friday Hasmukh Adhia will be remembered for

ALSO READ | Demonetisation highly ethical move, not political: Arun Jaitley

ALSO WATCH | Demonetisation hit or flop? BJP and Congress stick to their claims

====== 291 ========

RBI BLINKS FIRST IN MARATHON MEETING WITH GOVERNMENT, WILL INCREASE CASH FLOW

The Urjit Patel-led RBI and the Narendra Modi government have been at loggerheads over issues including credit lending (Photos: Reuters)

A closely watched meeting of the board of the Reserve Bank of India ended this evening with the central bank agreeing to increase liquidity in the open market. The central bank will pump in up to Rs 8,000 crore into the market by purchasing government bonds.

An increased cash flow was among the issues that had brought the Urjit Patel-led RBI and the Narendra Modi government at loggerheads.

During the meeting, the RBI board, which consists of RBI director Urjit Patel, his four deputies and 13 other members either from or appointed by the government, discussed all the contentious issues on which the central bank and the government had clashed.

In a press statement released after the meeting, the RBI said that some of those issues will be examined by pre-existing committees or panels.

A new committee, however, will be set up to examine the crucial issue of whether the RBI should have over its surplus reserve money to the government.

The composition of that committee will be decided jointly by the government and the RBI.

The issue of easing lending restrictions imposed on state-run banks, on the other hand, will be examined by the Board for Financial Supervision (BFS).

Similarly, the RBI board also advised that the central bank "should consider a scheme for restructuring of stressed standard assets of MSME borrowers".

So, the only contentious issue that seems to have reached complete resolution at the RBI board meeting today was that of increasing cash flow into the market.

The RBI announced that it would buy government bonds worth up to Rs 8,000 crore in order to increase liquidity.

RBI VS GOVT

The Reserve Bank of India board met today days after the central bank's unease over government interference became public.

On October 27, RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya delivered an unusually strong statement warning against government interference in RBI's affairs.

"Governments that do not respect central bank's independence will sooner or later incur the wrath of financial markets, ignite economic fire, and come to rue the day they undermined an important regulatory institution," Acharya said at an event in Mumbai.

Acharya's comments were seen to have tactic understanding of his boss, Urjit Patel.

In days after Acharya's comments, the issues that brought the government and the Urjit Patel-led RBI to loggerheads became public.

The issues ranged from the government wanting the RBI to ease some norms so that banks could easily lend money. The government also wanted the RBI to help in ensuring better credit flow to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMES).

Another flashpoint was the Centre asking that the RBI transfer surplus reserves to the government.

On all these issues, Urjit Patel's RBI was seen to be reluctant as far as giving in to the government requests was concerned.

The RBI vs government tensions were capped off by the latter invoking Section 7 of the RBI Act, something that was never done before in the history of independent India.

Section 7 of the RBI Act empowers the government to issue directions necessary to the RBI from time to time. The complete implications of the section being invoked remain unknown.

READ | Urjit Patel vs Modi govt: Is RBI really independent?

IN-DEPTH | RBI and Centre at loggerheads ahead of 2019 elections

====== 292 ========

NISSAN'S COST KILLER CHIEF CARLOS GHOSN ARRESTED FOR FINANCIAL FRAUD

Nissan's Carlos Ghosn, one of the auto industry's star executives, now faces dismissal by the Japanese car maker, and has been arrested.

Once dubbed "Le Cost Killer", Ghosn, who is 64, is the chairman and CEO of the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Alliance.

He's been arrested in Tokyo "for financial misconduct," AFP reported citing Japanese media.

On Monday, Nissan said Ghosn (pronounced "Go-n") used company money for personal use.

The automaker said it had been investigating Ghosn's (and Representative Director Greg Kelly's) possible improper practices for several months. It also said its board would propose that Ghosn be terminated swiftly as chairman.

Key lines from #Nissan statement on #CarlosGhosn: The investigation showed that over many years both Ghosn and Kelly have been reporting compensation amounts that were less than the actual amount, in order to reduce the disclosed amount of Carlos Ghosn’s compensation Nancy Hungerford (@NancyCNBC) November 19, 2018

"The Tokyo District Public Prosecutor's Office arrested Nissan chairman Ghosn on suspicion of violation of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act," AFP quoted a Japanese public broadcaster as saying.

Correction: The headline of an earlier version of this story incorrectly spelt Ghosn's name. The correct spelling is Carlos Ghosn.

Inputs from Reuters

ALSO WATCH | Carlos Ghosn talks future of driverless cars

====== 293 ========

URJIT PATEL VS MODI GOVT: IS RBI REALLY INDEPENDENT?

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Narendra Modi government have not been on the same page for quite some time. The differences had come out in the open during the tenure of Raghuram Rajan as the RBI governor. The fight, much against expectations, escalated under the incumbent RBI governor Urjit Patel.

Viral Acharya, one of the four deputies of Urjit Patel, last month took it to a new level when he compared the economic crisis of Argentina with the prevailing economic conditions in India. He claimed to have the backing of Urjit Patel in saying that the government interfered with the independence and autonomy of the RBI.

The question is, is the RBI really independent?

The answer to this question has always weighed in favour of the government. Tussle between the RBI and the government is as old as the RBI itself. The first RBI governor Osborne Smith (1935-37) had his differences with the then British Indian government.

The friction between the RBI and the government was there when Jawaharlal Nehru was the prime minister. Benegal Rama Rau remains the longest-serving RBI governor 1949-57 -- since Independence. He had a bitter confrontation with Nehru’s finance minister TT Krishnamachari.

Then PM Nehru threw his weight behind Krishnamachari and virtually dismissed the notion of an independent and autonomous RBI. Nehru wrote to Rau saying, [the Bank] has a high status and responsibility. It has to advise the government, but it also has to keep in line with the government.

Many years later, Nehru’s viewpoint was echoed by a celebrated RBI governor YV Reddy, who is credited with keeping India safe during 2008 global financial crisis which he recorded in his book, India and the Global Financial Crisis.

YV Reddy writes, "There is no such thing as blanket independence. RBI is independent within the limits set by government.

The RBI-government equation was explained in a biographical book on former RBI governor and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. He was the RBI governor between 1982 and 1985, and was the prime minister for 10 years between 2004 and 2014.

His daughter Daman Singh quotes Manmohan Singh in her book, Strictly Personal: Manmohan and Gursharan (2014) as saying, The governor of RBI is not superior to the finance minister in authority. And if the finance minister insists, I don’t see that the governor can really refuse unless he is willing to give up his job.

So, why is the current tug-of-war?

There are several issues over which the RBI and the government don’t agree. But the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework put in place by the RBI in February this year became the flashpoint.

The RBI insisted on strict enforcement of the PCA calling it a necessary step to protect banking sector from crisis. The government, however, sought easing of lending norms for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector.

The MSME sector is the biggest employment generation sector and contributes to about 40 per cent of exports and about 45 per cent in the gross domestic product. The PCA has made lending to MSME sector very difficult.

With this in background, Viral Acharya on October 26 said, Governments that don’t respect the independence of their central banks will sooner or later incur the wrath of financial markets, ignite economic fire and come to rue the day they undermined an important regulatory institution.

Acharya cited the example of Argentina saying that the country’s government meddled in its central bank's affairs in 2010 which led to a market revolt and a surge in bond yields.

The comparison came for sharp criticism and strong rebuttal. Critics called RBI deputy governor’s outbursts as misplaced pointing that while Argentina defaulted seven times on its international debt and five times on its domestic debt, India never defaulted on its debt.



But the RBI-government tussle and deputy governor’s public outburst may make the government more circumspect in appointing governors in future.

Some observers have already expressed fear that the government may prefer only yes-man as RBI governors to avoid public confrontations as it dampens the prevailing economic sentiments in the country.

Read | The RBI vs government tug of war

Watch The Long Story | RBI, Centre at loggerheads ahead of 2019 elections

====== 294 ========

WILL RBI-CENTRE TUSSLE END? CRUCIAL BOARD MEETING BEGINS

The ongoing rift between the government and the Reserve Bank of India -- India's central bank -- is all set to play out at an RBI board meeting that's currently under way. It will be the first since the extent of the conflict became public knowledge.

Finance Ministry nominees and some independent directors are expected to take on RBI Governor Urjit Patel and his team over issues ranging from the bank's reserves to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) credit -- though both sides are in favour of reaching common ground. (For a more in-depth look at what's at stake in today's meeting, read this.)

A public spat: Last month, the government invoked a section of the RBI Act that empowers it to issue directions necessary for public interest to the RBI from time to time, after consultation with the bank's governor. In a speech, RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya spoke about the independence of the central bank, arguing that any compromise could be "potentially catastrophic" for the economy. (Go deeper.)

Will Urjit Patel resign?: While there have been reports and demands from some quarters for the RBI governor to step down, sources said Patel is unlikely to yield under pressure and will rather mount a strong defence of the central bank's policies regarding stringent non-performing asset (NPA) recognition norms as well as measures taken to ease credit supply to MSMEs, the Press Trust of India reported.

Who's on the board?: The RBI board currently has 18 members (although it can have up to 21), including Urjit Patel and his four deputies. The 13 others were nominated by the government; they include two Finance Ministry officials -- the Economic Affairs Secretary and the Financial Services Secretary.

A Reuters report says the board is now "stacked with government nominees who can be counted on to support the administration", and is "being transformed from having a passive advisory role into a body that can exert pressure for policy change".

The London-based newswire said it learned from two board members that "government pressure for easier lending policies is likely to become abundantly clear" at today's board meeting.

Inputs from agencies

THE LONG STORY | RBI, Centre at loggerheads ahead of 2019 elections

====== 295 ========

UIDAI CEO AJAY BHUSHAN PANDEY TO REPLACE HASMUKH ADHIA AS REVENUE SECRETARY

Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), will be the new Finance Secretary, replacing Hasmukh Adhia -- the Gujarat-cadre IAS officer who is set to retire on November 30.

Pandey, a 1984-batch IAS officer of the Maharashtra cadre, would continue to hold the additional charge of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) CEO and Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) Chairman till further instructions, according to an order issued by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet.

The committee also announced that Girish Chandra Murmu, the 1985-batch Gujarat-cadre IAS officer who is presently Special Secretary at Revenue Department, would replace Expenditure Secretary Ajay Narayan Jha when he retires on January 31 next year.

Adhia, who turned 60 earlier this month, had an eventful stint as Finance Secretary during the days of demonetisation and the ushering in of the GST regime. The IAS officer worked in the Finance Ministry for four years including the last three years as Revenue Secretary.

The announcement of his retirement put to rest all speculation of his getting an extension, unlike in the past when the tenure of Secretaries in the ministry were usually extended if it ended close to the Union Budget's presentation.

Announcing Adhia's retirement in a Facebook post, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said the government wanted him to continue in some "alternate" capacity but he declined to do so.

"He (Adhia) had informed me earlier this year that he would not work for a single day after November 30. His time thereafter belongs to his favourite passion (spirituality and yoga) and of course his son," Jaitley said in the post.

While wishing him a good post-retirement life, Jaitley commended Adhia's contributions as Revenue Secretary for bringing a series of reforms including execution of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and making the income tax filing process online with no physical interface between the assessee and the assessment official.

In a series of tweets, Adhia expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Jaitley for their guidance and leadership during his four-year stint.

"My special gratitude to the Prime Minister for his guidance and to Arun Jaitley ji for having acknowledged my contribution publicly," the outgoing Secretary said.

As Revenue Secretary, Adhia's term witnessed the introduction of a nationwide indirect tax egime, evolving a Centre-states consensus on the multiple GST laws and drafting the rules and fixing tariffs that made it possible to meet the deadline of July 1, 2017 for the GST roll-out, Jaitley said.

Rate reductions and smoothening of the rough edges were also achieved in a record time during Adhia's tenure, he added.

"Adhia's tenure saw an exponential increase in tax base and the tax realisations... The follow-up after demonetisation in detecting the large cash depositors and making them accountable was no mean challenge. Adhia executed these steps with calm and professionalism," he said.

Jaitley also appreciated Adhia's prior role as Financial Services Secretary in successfully implementing various social security programmes, including the MUDRA Yojana, which is targeted at funding micro units.

(With inputs from IANS)

READ | Finance Secretary Hasmukh Adhia to retire on Nov 30, Jaitley pens farewell note

ALSO READ | The case of the missing voters

ALSO WATCH | Facial recognition system is not mandatory: UIDAI CEO Ajay Bhushan

====== 296 ========

INFOSYS NAMES ITS EXECUTIVE VP JAYESH SANGHRAJKA AS INTERIM CFO

Sanghrajka performed leadership roles in finance division and even as Deputy CFO | Photo from REUTERS

Global software major Infosys on Thursday (November 15) appointed its executive vice-president Jayesh Sanghrajka as interim chief financial officer (CFO) with effect from Saturday (November 17) in place of outgoing CFO MD Ranganath.

"The Board of Directors at its meeting on Thursday appointed Sangharajka as the interim CFO and key managerial personnel of the company with effect from November 17," the city-based IT major said in a statement.

The board is in the process of selecting the next CFO as Ranganath steps down on Friday (November 16).

"Sanghrajka has spent 13 years in the company over two stints and performed leadership roles in the finance division and even as Deputy CFO," the statement said.

Infosys today appointed Jayesh Sanghrajka as the interim Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company with effect from November 17, 2018. Read the press release here https://t.co/EXUbJvO7BN #InfyNews pic.twitter.com/1Vqs6MOsom Infosys (@Infosys) November 15, 2018

SANGHRAJKA AND RANGANATH

Sanghrajka, who has 20 years of experience in chartered accountancy, worked with the company in the first stint between 2000-2007 as general manager (finance) and re-joined in 2012 as corporate financial controller.

Ranganath, 55, who resigned on August 18 after 18 years of service to pursue opportunities in new areas, is the third CFO to quit the $11-billion IT firm in the last 5-6 years after Rajiv Bansal in October 2015 and V Balakrishnan in December 2013.

According to the company's 37th annual report, Ranganath's annual compensation in fiscal 2017-18 was Rs 7.98 crore, including Rs 7.03 crore as salary, Rs 24 lakh as retrials and 71 lakh shares as stock options.

Ranganath, who owned 9,256 shares at the beginning of fiscal 2017-18, exercised 7,662 shares and held 16,918 cumulative shares at the end of last fiscal.

OTHER PLAYERS

While Bansal resigned from the executive post in October 2015 amid a raging controversy over governance issues between the co-founders and previous board, Balakrishnan was elevated as a Director and head of its back-office operations (Infosys BPO) in October 2012.

Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy also objected to the hefty severance package (Rs 17.37 crore) to Bansal, who was party to the "costly" acquisition of the US-based Panaya software firm in February 2015 under its first non-promoter chief executive Vishal Sikka, who too resigned on August 18, 2017.

ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL OF JUSTICE

The Arbitral Tribunal of Justice RV Raveendran (retired) on September 17, ordered the company to pay Bansal Rs 12.37 crore with interest as part of the severance package.

The Tribunal also rejected the company's claim for a refund of Rs 5.2 crore paid earlier to Bansal as part of the severance package. On legal advice, the company complied with the order and paid Bansal the balance amount.

(Inputs from IANS)

Read more on business:

RBI, Centre set to iron out differences ahead of key board meeting: Sources

Gautam Singhania steps down as chairman of Raymond Apparel

====== 297 ========

SAUDI ARABIA TO SEEK DEATH PENALTY FOR JAMAL KHASHOGGI KILLERS

Saudi Arabia plans to execute five men who have been accused of the controversial murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The Saudi prosecution said that a total of 11 people have so far been charged for Khashoggi's murder, which took place inside the Saudi embassy in Turkey on October 2.

Khashoggi was a Saudi journalist and an open critic of the kingdom's regime. He was an op-ed writer for the US daily The Washington Post.

He was killed in a particularly gruesome manner. According to Turkish officials, Khashoggi was killed, his body was dismembered, the body parts were dissolved in acid and then the liquid remains were poured down a drain.

Khashoggi's murder sparked global outrage. There was suspicion that Saudi regime itself had ordered the hit.

Turkey itself pointed the finger at Riyadh, saying that an assassination squad had arrived from Saudi Arabia with the sole purpose of killing Khashoggi, who was to visit the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.

The days after Khashoggi's murder were marked by shifting statements from the Saudis.

First, Riyadh said that Khashoggi had left its consulate in Istanbul alive. For around a week after Khashoggi's death, Saudi Arabia maintained that the journalist was simply missing.

With international pressure mounting, Saudi Arabia on October 20 admitted that Khashoggi had died inside its embassy in Istanbul.

Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with Jamal Khashoggi's son Salah

Saudi Arabia claimed that Khashoggi had met somebody inside the consulate and that they had an altercation that became a brawl that further turned into a fistfight. It was during this fistfight that Khashoggi was killed, Saudi Arabia said.

A few days later, Saudi Arabia changed its statement once again, saying that Khashoggi's murder was a "mistake" and that it was carried out by "rouge" agents who were acting without the knowledge of the senior leadership of the Saudi intelligence.

And now, the Saudi Arabian prosecution service has said it will seek the death penalty for these "rogue" agents.

However, the allegations that Khashoggi's murder was a hit ordered by the top Saudi leadership haven't died. The New York Times reported just this week that Turkish intelligence had collected a phone recording that may link Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

According to the Times, one of Khashoggi's assassins made a phone call to his superior shortly after the murder. "Tell your boss," the assassin told his senior. The "boss" here is believed to Mohammed bin Salman, or MBS as he known.

READ | Jamal Khashoggi body was dissolved in acid, says Turkish official

READ | Jamal Khashoggi's remains turned to liquid, poured down drain

WATCH | Saudi Arabia opens its first cinema hall in 35 years

====== 298 ========

BJP WILL GET ZERO SEAT IN MIZORAM ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS: MNF CHIEF ZORAMTHANGA

Surrounded by young party cadres in Aizawl, Mizo National Front (MNF) chief Zoramthanga seems supremely confident. It has been a long wait being the principal opposition for 10 consecutive years for the two-time Mizoram Chief Minister. At 74, he now sniffs a chance at dethroning his archrival, Congress’s Lal Thanhawla (76) after two successive terms in office.

I believe MNF will win between 25 30 seats and we will get a comfortable majority. People by and large are against the Congress party this time, he says.

Speaking to India Today at his residence in Aizawl, the former rebel leader who once took part in the violent secessionist movement of the ’80s said lack of development and liquor prohibition are the key issues his party is going to bring up.

People here desperately need change; development has stood still in Mizoram for a decade under the Congress rule. Instead, they are selling liquor! Thousands have died due to it, it is like a plague, a king size headache for parents, he said.

Given the massive influence of the Presbyterian Church, there has been a long-standing demand for banning the sale of liquor considering health and moral implications.

It was the Congress government which imposed a total prohibition on sale and consumption of alcohol in 1997 after enacting the Mizoram Liquor Total Prohibition Act. After 17 years, the Congress government decided to partially repeal the prohibition and brought in the Mizoram Liquor (Prohibition and Control) Bill 2014 (or MLPC) to replace the old MLTP Act. Notwithstanding opposition from the church, the government maintained that liquor ban had resulted in the increased sale of spurious liquor.

When they lifted the prohibition, hundreds have died; it has become suicidal for the Congress party, Mr Zoramthanga maintains, adding that his party will reimpose the ban as per their commitment.

As a founding member of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the MNF supports the BJP-led NDA at the Centre but has decided to fight the assembly polls alone in Mizoram. This has led the Congress to accuse it of forging a secret pact with the saffron brigade.

There is no secret alliance, it is open for all. We are a part of the NDA. As far as the election here in Mizoram is considered, we have a different ideology; we may sit with them together in parliament but not here in Mizoram. Therefore we don’t have any electoral alliance of the BJP, the MNF veteran clarifies.

The ideology of Hindutva and Christianity are poles apart, that is why the whole Church is against the BJP. BJP’s chances of winning even a single seat are farfetched. They will be most fortunate if they get one seat. I think they will draw a nil this time, he adds.

Calling Himanta Biswa Sarma's, BJP chief architect in the North East, claim of the party ending up as the kingmaker in Mizoram as wishful thinking, the MNF chief says, We won’t need any help from other parties. We shall form the government single-handedly.

We will not need a post-poll scenario. It’s like saying suppose your wife dies, will you chose x or y as the substitute! While my wife is in good health why chose a substitute?, the veteran Mizo politician quips, as he hops into his SUV to leave for a last round of campaigning.

ALSO READ | Mizoram election: Candidates with deep pockets in fray to wrest power this time

ALSO WATCH | No government will be formed in Mizoram without BJP's support, says Himanta Biswa

====== 299 ========

BEFORE ELECTIONS RAM RAM, AFTER THAT ONLY ARAAM: UDDHAV THACKERAY ESCALATES ATTACK ON BJP

Uddhav Thackeray said the BJP will not come back to power if Ram temple is not built in Ayodhya. (PTI file photo)

Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, who is on a two-day visit to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday targetted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Ram temple and said the party chants 'Ram Ram' before every election but resorts to 'aaram' (rest) after polls. "Party [BJP] chants Ram Ram before elections, but it's only aaram after it," he said.

"BJP government said they are exploring all the possibilities. Why haven't you found a possibility by now?" asked Thackeray demanding ordinance for the temple. "I have come here to tell the BJP that they should not play with the sentiments of the Hindus. This BJP government is quite strong, they can get this temple made quite easily," he said.

Referring to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's remark 'Hindu maar nahi khaayega' (Hindus will not get beaten), Thackeray said the Hindus have grown stronger now and will not be beaten. "BJP will not be able to form a government next time if the temple is not built, but the Ram temple will be built," he said.

'NO HIDDEN AGENDA BEHIND AYODHYA VISIT'

Thackeray, who reached Ayodhya on Saturday along with his family, said his visit has no hidden agenda. "I don't have a hidden agenda behind my Ayodhya visit. I have come here on behalf of people and not to spread hatred. All of us are waiting for Ram temple" he said. "Every Hindu wants a temple at the birthplace of Lord Ram. I have come here to awaken the Kumbhakarna [BJP government]. Hindutva means keeping your words," he added.

Thousands of Shiv Sena and VHP supporters are in Ayodhya this weekend to attend events that are being seen as a strong push for the expedition of Ram temple construction. The politically significant visit by Thackeray is expected to build pressure on the BJP for the early construction of the proposed Ram temple in the run-up to the upcoming 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh government rushed last night to announce details of the Ram statue it plans to build in Ayodhya. Yogi Adityanath's minister revealed that a 221-metre tall bronze statue of Ram will be built on the banks of River Sarayu. The statue is expected to be around 39 metres taller than Gujarat's Statue of Unity which is right now the tallest in the world. Statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31.

SENA HAS NO ROLE IN TEMPLE MOVEMENT: BJP

Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya disapproved of the Shiv Sena's push for constructing a Ram temple here, saying the party had no role in the temple movement.

"There is no problem in Uddhav Thackeray catching a glimpse of Ram Lalla...but, had Balasaheb Thackeray been alive, he would have prevented Uddhav from doing whatever he is doing, Maurya told PTI. The deputy chief minister, who was part of the VHP during the Ram temple movement, said, The devotees of Lord Ram know who can actually make a sacrifice now and who had made a sacrifice earlier.

AYODHYA ON ALERT

Security has been tightened in Ayodhya as top saints and representatives of various Hindu groups are in the city to participate in VHP's Dharma Sabha. Around two lakh people are expected to attend the event. Ahead of the meeting, the VHP has already declared that 25,000 volunteers will be recruited by Bajrang Dal to escalate the Ram temple movement. The VHP workers from across the country have already started coming in Ayodhya since last one week to participate in the mega meeting of saints. The VHP has also declared that the Dharma Sabha which has been organised is not a political event putting an end to the speculation of Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray sharing the stage with saints on Sunday.

LIVE UPDATES: Shiv Sena, VHP's push for Ram temple in Ayodhya

MUST READ | How Babri Masjid was brought down

WATCH | Shiv Sena's Ram Mandir roar: A special ground report from Ayodhya



====== 300 ========

VHP'S DHARMA SABHA IN AYODHYA TO PUSH FOR RAM TEMPLE CONSTRUCTION

Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has organised a 'Dharma Sabha' on November 25 in Ayodhya. Top saints and representatives of various Hindu groups would be participating in the event. Around two lakh people are expected to attend the event.

Speaking to India Today TV, Sharad Sharma of the VHP said, "In the Dharma Sabha which has been organised on Sunday [November 25] more than 100 saints would be participating including prominent figures like Swami Parmanand, Jagatguru Hansdevacharya and Jagatguru Ramanandcharya. The president of Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas Mahant Nritya Gopal Das will also be present. We are expecting a gathering of around two lakh people from different parts of the country."

"We have already made it clear that the legislation in Parliament should be brought immediately for Ram temple construction. This meeting has been called to convey the sentiments of the Hindu community and to open eyes of those people who are silent over this issue. Whatever prominent saints will decide in the Dharma Sabha shall be followed by us. Another grand meeting of the saints has been called during the beginning of Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj next year," added the VHP spokesperson.

Ahead of the meeting the VHP has already declared that 25,000 volunteers will be recruited by Bajrang Dal to escalate the Ram temple movement. The VHP workers from across the country have already started coming in Ayodhya since last one week to participate in the mega meeting of saints. The VHP has also declared that the Dharma Sabha which has been organised is not a political event putting an end to the speculation of Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray sharing the stage with saints on Sunday.

Responding to VHP's Dharma Sabha, Babri Masjid litigant Iqbal Ansari said, "I personally have no issues if saints are orgnanising meeting here. However, thousands of outsiders have come to Ayodhya and it's the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order. The demand of legislation is being made by them but the judgment has to be delivered by the Supreme Court and it should be accepted by all."

CONGRESS ON VHP AND SHIV SENA

Meanwhile, the Congress spokesperson Zeeshan Haider said, "Both the Shiv Sena and VHP have violated Section 144 which has been imposed in Ayodhya. The VHP has got the backing of the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]. The government will be responsible if any untoward incident happens there."

Reacting to the Congress allegations of backing the VHP, UP BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said, "In democracy every individual has the right to freedom of expression and saints are only expressing their sentiments. The matter is getting delayed in the SC and saints want early resolution to this issue. However, the event organised in Ayodhya should happen peacefully. The state government has already deployed adequate security."

VHP AND SHIV SENA IN AYODHYA

Meanwhile, Ayodhya has turned into a fortress for the Shiv Sena and VHP's programmes. One ADGP, one DIG, three SSPs, 10 ASPs, 21 DSPs, 160 inspectors, 700 constables, 42 companies of PAC, five companies of RAF, ATS commandos and drone cameras have been deployed in Ayodhya for maintaining law and order.

Read more on Ram Mandir:

Exclusive: The four-phase plan of RSS for expediting Ram Mandir construction

Modi govt should bring law for construction of Ram temple in 6 months: VHP

VIDEO | Shiv Sena's Ram Mandir roar: A special ground report from Ayodhya

====== 301 ========

EXCLUSIVE: BJP OPEN TO POST-POLL ARRANGEMENT WITH MIZORAM CM LAL THANHAWLA, SAYS HIMANTA BISWA SARMA

Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) chief architect in the North East, Himanta Biswa Sarma, said that his party is open to the idea of allying with Congress leader and Chief Minister of Mizoram Lal Thanhawla in a post-poll scenario. Speaking to India Today in Aizawl, Mizoram, Sarma said that the BJP will emerge as a "very strong political force" in the Mizoram Assembly.

"The BJP has to play a balancing role. We are going to win a particular number of seats without the support of which no party can form a government whether it is Lal Thanhawla, the MNF [Mizo National Front] or ZPM [Zoram People's Movement]," Sarma said.

"I am not saying we will have anything to do with the Congress. Let me emphasise, if Lal Thanhawla ji wants to form a government in his individual capacity, anything is possible," he said.

WILL BJP TRY AND SPLIT CONGRESS IN CASE OF HUNG ASSEMBLY?

"You don't have to break the Congress; the Mizoram Congress is a different political entity. In the Mizoram Congress, Rahul Gandhi is not the president, Lal Thanhawla is. From the times of Indira Gandhi, the Congress in Mizoram has been considered a separate entity from the AICC [All India Congress Committee]," claims Sarma.

MIZORAM AND BJP

Mizoram being a Christian majority state is clearly a hostile political territory for a party which is aggressively propagating the Hindutva agenda while supporting beef ban in the country.

Essentially drawing its power from the Hindi heartland, the BJP had failed to open its account in Mizoram in 2013. Thus the saffron brigade has undertaken a high-octane campaign with PM Narendra Modi and several central ministers making a beeline to win the perception battle.

"We have demolished that image [anti-Church] already. Out of Christian dominated states in the North East we have governments in three states and people there have absolute freedom of religion. I don't think there is any clash between the BJP and Christianity," Sarma said.

With the undeniable hold of the church in Mizoram civil society, any party which aims to capture power in the state must take into confidence various peoples' groups in the state. During his campaign PM Modi met members of the Young Mizo Association, arguably the most significant civil society group which holds a particular sway among the electorate.

"I don't think the church or the NGOs will back the BJP, they are non-political entities but the PM gave everybody to allay any apprehensions about the BJP," Sarma said.

Reacting to CM Lal Thanhawla's allegation that the BJP was pumping in money to purchase votes in the state, the Assam finance minister said, "You cannot spend money here as the civil society is very strong. If you do so there is bound to be retaliation. I think he is defaming his own state by making such a statement."

Read more on North East:

Salman Khan cycles through the scenic hills of Arunachal Pradesh

Sonowal: Thanks to Modi, Northeast now emerging as centre of growth

====== 302 ========

NO GOVERNMENT WILL BE FORMED IN MIZORAM WITHOUT BJP'S SUPPORT, SAYS HIMANTA BISWA

Ahead of Mizoram assembly elections, BJP leader Himanta Biswa has said that no government will be formed without the support of BJP in the state. The state goes to poll on November 28.

Watch Biswa's exclusive interview with India Today.

====== 303 ========

COMING SOON: UP GOVERNMENT REVEALS DETAILS OF RAM STATUE IN AYODHYA

Five firms shortlisted for construction of the statue have given presentations before Yogi Adityanath and soil testing is being done for installing the statue. (Photo: Twitter/ANI)

The Uttar Pradesh government has rushed to reveal details of the Ram statue it plans to build in Ayodhya, hours before a massive push by the Shiv Sena and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad for Ram temple in the city.

Yogi Adityanath-led government on Saturday night announced that the Ram statue, to be built on the banks of River Sarayu, will be 221-metre tall. The statue will be built of bronze and while the height of the actual statue would be 151 metres, its overhead umbrella would be 20 metres while the pedestal would be 50 metres, UP Principal Secretary (Information) Avanish Awasthi told PTI.

A model of the proposed Ram statue presented to Yogi Adityanath yesterday. (Photo: Twitter/ANI)

Five firms shortlisted for construction of the statue have given presentations before Yogi Adityanath Saturday evening and soil testing is being done for installing the statue.

However, the government has not yet revealed the details of the cost of constructing this statue and its possible locations.

UP minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary had earlier told India Today that the decision to build the Ram statue was taken by the state government last year during the Diwali celebrations.

"It has been decided that the flow of river Saryu will be diverted in such a way that the water touches the feet of Lord Ram statue once it is ready. The irrigation department is already working on it," Chaudhary had said.

(Photo: Twitter/ANI)

The hurried announcement comes hours before VHP's Dharm Sabha in Ayodhya which is being backed by the Shiv Sena. Thousands of Shiv Sena and VHP supporters are in the city to push for the expedition of Ram temple construction.

Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray also reached Ayodhya on Saturday with his family to attend the event. Thackeray has blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for delaying the Ram temple construction. "Wo kehte hain ki mandir wahin banayenge. Par kabhi tareek nahi battle (They [BJP] claim that they will make the temple, but they shy away from telling the date when it will be accomplished)."

Thackeray said there is a strong BJP government in Uttar Pradesh and a BJP-led majority government at the Centre. "The temple should have already been constructed. Do whatever you want to do, whether it is coming up with a law or bringing in an ordinance, but the temple must be constructed," he said.

LIVE UPDATES: Shiv Sena, VHP's push for Ram temple in Ayodhya

MUST READ | How Babri Masjid was brought down

WATCH | Blow by blow account of what led to Babri Masjid demolition

====== 304 ========

SHAHID KAPOOR SHAVES OFF BEARD FOR KABIR SINGH. SEE PIC

Shahid Kapoor's previous film Batti Gul Meter Chalu did fair business at the box office, even though it was slammed by critics.

The actor is already busy with his next project Kabir Singh, which is a remake of the Telugu hit Arjun Reddy. On Saturday, he shared a picture of himself from the sets of Kabir Singh and captioned it, "On set. #KabirSingh."

Kabir Singh is being directed by Sandeep Vanga, who helmed Arjun Reddy as well. The film stars Kiara Advani as the female lead. Arjun Reddy revolves around a troubled and brilliant medical student who falls in love with a fellow student, and is then separated from her. He heads down the path of self-destruction after the spit.

On set. #kabirsingh A post shared by Shahid Kapoor (@shahidkapoor) on Nov 24, 2018 at 8:28am PST

The Telugu film's lead actor Vijay Deverakonda received glowing praise for his portrayal of a troubled character.

Shahid is also busy with another project, Dingko Singh.

In other news, Shahid and Mira welcomed a second child, baby boy Zain on September 5, this year. Last year, Shahid had revealed in an interview that Mira was keen on adding to the brood at the earliest. "She wants to flip the norm, get the kids to a certain age and then be free to do what she likes," he had said.

Incidentally, it was during Mira's first pregnancy that the couple fell in love. The two had an arranged marriage, and Shahid revealed at the India Today Woman Summit 2017 that he grew closer to his wife when she was expecting their daughter, Misha.

ALSO SEE: Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput name newborn son Zain. See adorable post

====== 305 ========

I AM THE KING FIRST, NOT AUDIENCE: SHOOJIT SIRCAR

Shoojit Sircar on Friday said he does not make his films wondering whether the audience will approve of it as the director believes he is the "king first".

The filmmaker recounted the public's mixed reaction to his latest directorial October, saying a lot of people thought that the Varun Dhawan and Banita Sandhu-starrer was slow.

"A lot of people saw October and told me that the film was really slow. And I was like, 'Fine what can I say?' It’s a territory where you can’t be blindly sure of what you are doing. Even when you are pitching to an actor, you are trying to tell him what your vision is. I’m not a magician, this is a process for me too.

"I’m not trying to get a good audience. People tell me but audience is the king, no but I am the king first. It is not in my control whether the audience will like my film or not. I will tell a story the way I feel it, I’m enjoying it or how my mind is processing it," Sircar said during a conversation with film critic Saibal Chatterjee at the session Out-of-the-box in Black Box at the fourth day of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) here.

The director, whose films Vicky Donor and Piku were major hits, said audience is the king only when a box office works.

"It is like when someone is ill, they call on God. When they recover, they forget the God. When they fall ill again, they remember God. So it is like that. I can't make a film for an audience. If I start thinking of an audience, I don't think I'll be able to make a film. An audience is the last thing that is on my mind (while working on a film)," he said.

Sircar said he has been lucky that all of his films fared at the ticket window the way he predicted.

My films have always worked at the box office. I tell my producers in advance that don't think it'll be a mass film, that a lot of people will come. But I try to learn from my past mistakes and try not to repeat them. When I look back, I see there have been many, many mistakes.

Recounting how he started Vicky Donor with frequent collaborator writer Juhi Chaturvedi, he said that she gives the idea and they hold discussions.

"One night she called me up and said she had a story about a sperm donor in her mind. I thought 'there is something wrong with this girl'. I should not say this but if some boy would have given this idea, I would have rejected it then and there itself.

"The whole night I couldn’t sleep. Then I went on the web and I read stories (on sperm donation) and I started laughing. The next morning, I called her up: let’s start the work, we’ll see how it goes.

"As and when the discussions are over, Chaturvedi goes into her own cocoon and pens the first draft, which serves as the backbone of the story," Sircar said.

The filmmaker, who has made a political thriller like Madras Café and backed social drama Pink, said his films are a reflection of the society around him along with the kind of cinema he watched while growing up.

Sircar, who is considered to be following the path of the middle of the road films, said he believes his work is really mediocre when he compares his films with his greatest influence, the legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray.

Later, the director told PTI that he is working on three different projects at the time, where he will be reuniting with Chaturvedi, Pink screenwriter Ritesh Shah and Madras Café co-writer Shubendu Bhattacharya, respectively.

He is also in advanced talks to produce a Bengali film.

ALSO READ | Yahaan, Piku, October: How Shoojit Sircar has undone Bollywood cliches of love and romance

====== 306 ========

HOUSEFULL 4 IS FOUR TIMES FUNNIER, SAYS RITEISH DESHMUKH

Actor Riteish Deshmukh, who has just wrapped up shooting for Housefull 4, says every shoot in the upcoming comedy film has been fun, adding that it was four times funnier.

Riteish on Thursday night tweeted a photograph of himself along with the cast and crew of the film and captioned it, "Wrapped up Housefull 4... Every shoot in this series has been super fun. This one was just four times funnier."

The actor, who has also been a part of the previous three installments of the Housefull franchise, said he got a chance to work with some new talents for the first time.

"Got to work with some old friends again and some talented actors for the first time. It was like a reunion at a freshers party. #HouseFull4 was an absolute blast - See you Diwali 2019," he added.

Got to work with some old friends again & some talented actors for the first time. It was like a reunion at a freshers party. #HouseFull4 was an absolute blast - See you #Diwali2019 Riteish Deshmukh (@Riteishd) November 22, 2018

Housefull 4 also stars Kriti Sanon, Akshay Kumar, Bobby Deol, Kriti Kharbanda, Rana Dagubatti and Pooja Hegde.

The film has faced several ups and downs. Rana replaced veteran actor Nana Patekar after the latter was accused of sexual misconduct by actress and former beauty queen Tanushree Dutta on the sets of 2008 film Horn OK Pleassss.

In October, filmmaker Sajid Khan stepped down as its director after he was accused of several sexual harassment incidents. He was replaced by Farhad Samji.

ALSO READ | Dancer molested on Housefull 4 set: Akshay Kumar asked me to go to cops

ALSO READ | Rana Daggubati replaces Nana Patekar in Housefull 4

====== 307 ========

LEAKED: RANBIR KAPOOR AND ALIA BHATT FILM ACTION SEQUENCE FOR BRAHMASTRA

Despite suffering from an injury, Alia Bhatt is not taking a break from the shooting of Ayan Mukerji's Brahmastra. A video of the actress shooting for an action sequence with Ranbir Kapoor has surfaced on the internet, and it is guaranteed to pique your excitement about the film.

In the video, which was shared by a paparazzo on his Instagram account, Ranbir and Alia are seen trying to balance themselves on an elevated surface, with harnesses attached to them. Do not miss Ranbir's adorable gesture of holding her hand and ensuring that she is safe.

Recently, Ranbir accompanied Alia to the doctor's clinic. The pictures of the couple went viral and gave netizens some serious relationship goals.

Brahmastra, directed by Ayan Mukerji, also features Amitabh Bachchan, Mouni Roy, Nagarjuna Akkineni and Dimple Kapadia in pivotal roles. In an interview with a leading daily, Ranbir revealed that contrary to reports, it is not a superhero film.

"It is actually a supernatural romantic fairy tale at heart. Ayan will never make a character that doesn’t have truth to it, or which is unbelievable. It’s too early to talk about the film, but it is something I am terribly excited about," he said.

Brahmastra is being made as a fantasy trilogy, the first installment of which is slated to release on Christmas 2019.

ALSO SEE: Ranbir Kapoor rushes girlfriend Alia Bhatt to doctor after injury on Brahmastra sets

====== 308 ========

RAJINIKANTH-AR MURUGDOSS FILM TO BE BACKED BY LYCA PRODUCTIONS?

After the release of Petta, Rajinikanth is teaming up with AR Murugadoss for a big-budget venture.

Now, reports state that Lyca Productions, which is already working on many big budget movies including Shankar-Kamal Haasan's Indian 2, is all set to bankroll the upcoming film.

Lyca has churned out more than Rs 500 crore for 2.0, which is hitting the screens on November 29.

In an interview, director Shankar said that Subaskaran, chairman of Lyca Productions, is doing it all for his love for his cinema. He added that Subaskaran wanted quality films from Tamil and lack of budget shouldn't be the barrier.

Subaskaran, in the audio launch of 2.0, said that he is not concerned about the profit 2.0 will yield but is happy in producing such a significant film.

Details about AR Murugadoss-Rajinikanth film is yet to be made official, but the director hinted in an interview that the upcoming film could be a fantasy venture.

Meanwhile, Petta is hitting the screens on Pongal 2018.

ALSO READ| Ambareesh dies at 66: Rajinikanth to Allu Arjun, celebs mourn

====== 309 ========

ARJUN KAPOOR AND MALAIKA ARORA TO MOVE INTO PLUSH APARTMENT?

It's all mush and romance in Bollywood. While Ranveer Singh-Deepika Padukone continue to make hearts flutter with their stunning wedding photos, Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora's romance seems to be going from strength to strength.

Though the two prefer to shy away from questions about their relationship, their social-media PDA and dinner dates speak volumes. The latest update about the two is that they have purchased a flat in a plush society near Lokhandwala complex, in Mumbai.

A source told an entertainment portal, "Arjun and Malaika have together purchased a flat in a plush society near Lokhandwala Complex. It is their joint investment together. Whether they plan to live in or no is entirely up to them. But they are surely getting a space for themselves. Currently, the interiors of the house are being done and both Malaika and Arjun are looking into the details."

Only time will tell whether Arjun and Malaika will move in together.

Rumour has it that the couple is planning to take their relationship to the next level and tie the knot next year. Interestingly, Arjun admitted on Karan Johar's show that he is open to marriage.

When Karan asked him if was open to getting married, Arjun said, "Yes, now I am. Earlier, I wasn't."

Recently, Malaika was asked about the rumours of her wedding by a leading daily and she chose to neither confirm nor deny them. "I never answer personal questions. Not that I shy away from answering or whatever. I just don't feel comfortable talking about my personal life. And whatever my life has been, everyone is aware of it. I don't need to be talking about it. I am just enjoying my life," she said.

ALSO READ | Arbaaz on relationship with Malaika: I tried for 21 years but couldn't succeed

====== 310 ========

ARJUN REVEALS HE WANTS TO GET MARRIED. MALAIKA, ARE YOU LISTENING?

Even though Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora have remained tight-lipped about their relationship, all signs point to a romance brewing between the two. And it looks like Arjun is no mood to hide his love for Malaika.

If a report in a leading daily is to be believed, he admitted on Karan Johar's chat show that he is not single. The confession came as a surprise to Karan as well as Arjun's sister Janhvi Kapoor, who was sharing the couch with him.

When Karan asked him when he would tell his family about his ladylove, Arjun pointed at Janhvi and replied, "Clearly, it has just happened."

From parties to dinner dates, Arjun and Malaika have been painting the town red together. In fact, they even went on a romantic getaway in Milan together and were clicked holding hands at the airport.

Rumours were doing the rounds that the couple is planning to take their relationship to the next level and tie the knot next year. Interestingly, Arjun admitted on the show that he is open to marriage.

When Karan asked him if was open to getting married, Arjun said, "Yes, now I am. Earlier, I wasn't."

Recently, Malaika was asked about the rumours of her wedding by a leading daily and she chose to neither confirm nor deny them. "I never answer personal questions. Not that I shy away from answering or whatever. I just don't feel comfortable talking about my personal life. And whatever my life has been, everyone is aware of it. I don't need to be talking about it. I am just enjoying my life," she said.

ALSO READ | Arbaaz on relationship with Malaika: I tried for 21 years but couldn't succeed

====== 311 ========

VICKY KAUSHAL JUST DECLARED HIS LOVE FOR GIRLFRIEND HARLEEN SETHI

Fans of Vicky Kaushal will be heartbroken to know that the hunky actor is off the singles' market. On Neha Dhupia's podcast, he admitted that he was in love, although he did not divulge the name of the woman.

Neha revealed that Vicky went to their mutual friend Amrit's party with the intention of being set up with a particular woman. However, sparks flew between him and another woman at the bash, and he is now in love with her.

"Jaana tha Japan, pohoch gaye Cheen, samajh gaye na. That's what happened," he laughed.

Although he did not name the woman in question, the grapevine is abuzz with rumours that it is Harleen Sethi. Harleen, who has appeared in several commercials, is currently being seen opposite Vikrant Massey in ALTBalaji's web-series, Broken.

When Neha asked Vicky to dedicate a song to Harleen, he sang Diljit Dosanjh's Do You Know. "Do you know? Main tenu kinna pyar karda... Do you know? Main tere utte kinna marda... Do you know?" he sang. Now, if that is not proof enough that he is smitten with her, we do not know what is!

On the work front, Vicky will be seen next in Aditya Dhar's Uri: The Surgical Strike as an Indian commando who was a part of the 2016 surgical strikes. The film, which also features Yami Gautam, Kirti Kulhari and Paresh Rawal in pivotal roles, is slated to hit the theatres on January 11, 2019.

ALSO READ | Vicky Kaushal and rumoured girlfriend Harleen Sethi spotted on lunch date

====== 312 ========

THIS ADORABLE VIDEO OF KARAN JOHAR'S TWINS YASH AND ROOHI WILL MELT YOUR HEART

Like every doting daddy, Karan Johar just cannot stop gushing over his twins, Yash and Roohi. The filmmaker took to his Instagram account to share a video of the tiny tots showing off their dancing and driving skills, and it is beyond adorable.

In the clip, Karan asks Yash and Roohi to dance, but the latter is busy with her toy car. Yash starts dancing, but then stops to give his sister a warm hug. Roohi smiles at the display of affection.

"Please see the dancing the driving skills! #mylovestory #roohiandyash," Karan captioned the video, which has already garnered over a million views in less than 24 hours.

At the India Today Conclave 2017, Karan revealed that he was "more of a mother" than a father to his children. "My need to have children comes from my sense of nurturing. I wanted to channelise the love within me," he added.

On the work front, Karan recently announced his upcoming directorial venture, Takht. He has roped in Ranveer Singh, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Vicky Kaushal, Alia Bhatt, Janhvi Kapoor, Anil Kapoor and Bhumi Pednekar for the ambitious period drama.

Set against the backdrop of the Mughal empire, Takht is the story of a family, of ambition, of greed, of betrayal, of love and of succession. It is slated to hit the screens in 2020.

ALSO SEE: Karan Johar spends Sunday with 'puddings' Yash-Roohi. Taimur was there too

====== 313 ========

RANNVIJAY'S DAUGHTER RECOGNISES SOHA ALI KHAN AS INAAYA MAMA. WATCH ADORABLE VIDEO

Rannvijay Singha's daughter Kainaat and Soha Ali Khan's daughter Inaaya often have playdates together and are inseparable. It is no wonder, then, that Kainaat recognises Soha as "Inaaya mama".

Soha took to her Instagram account to share an adorable video of Kainaat pointing at the cover of her autobiography, The Perils Of Being Moderately Famous, and recognising her as Inaaya's mother.

"'Inaaya mama!' A book that talks about the perils of being known by association and in relation to other more famous family members - and here is baby @singhakainaat recognising me, the author, as 'inaaya mama'! And I love it! The best identity I have," the actress captioned the video.

In an interview with India Today earlier this year, Soha revealed that motherhood had changed her life. "My daughter controls my life now. When I eat, when I go to sleep, whether I will take up new work or if I will go out - it all depends on her moods and schedules. She is running my house now and I am occupied with Project Inaaya these days," she said.

On the work front, Soha was last seen on the big screen in Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster 3. The film was unanimously panned by critics and sank without a trace at the box office. Directed by Tigmanshu Dhulia, the film also featured Sanjay Dutt, Jimmy Sheirgill, Chitrangda Singh and Mahie Gill.

ALSO SEE: Soha Ali Khan is smoking hot in bikini with daughter Inaaya on Maldives trip

====== 314 ========

TAIMUR ALI KHAN MEOWING AT A CAT IS TOO CUTE TO HANDLE. WATCH VIDEO

Taimur Ali Khan is not even two years old, but he already has an enviable fan following. In fact, it was recently revealed on Karan Johar's chat show that a single picture of the tiny tot fetches Rs 1500.

A paparazzo shared a video of Taimur excited to see a cat, and it is melting our hearts. The toddler accompanied his mother Kareena Kapoor Khan to a shoot this morning and saw a cat sleeping on the pavement. He instantly pointed at it and said, "Meow!" Now, isn't that adorable?

Meanwhile, toy makers are also cashing in on Taimur's popularity. A doll modelled on him is available online and in stores. Fans can buy their very own Taimur doll, manufactured by Speedage, for a discounted price of Rs 980 (Rs 1097.60, including GST).

Kareena said that she was speechless when she found out about the Taimur doll. Admitting that they "can't run away from his popularity", she said, "When I saw the doll, I wondered what I was supposed to say. But Saif (Ali Khan) pointed out that it's because people love him so much and such things are a blessing for him."

"There is so much of genuine warmth for our son that it's bad to stop people from clicking his pictures or making his dolls. But they should understand that he's just a two-year-old child and needs a normal life," she told a newspaper.

ALSO SEE | Taimur has the most adorable pet name for elder sister Sara Ali Khan

====== 315 ========

GROWING UP WITH MARVEL MAN STAN LEE

In 1961, Stan Lee introduced the world to the Fantastic Four, a team of astronauts who gained exposure to cosmic rays during a scientific mission to outer space.

There was something lovable and intriguing about this dysfunctional family, who would quarrel and hold petty grudges against each other, and fight with their parents on a daily basis. What made them even more relatable was that each character would have normal and routine problems like dandruff and acne.

These four transformed Lee's life, the future of the comic industry and the childhood of millions of his fans across the world. With Mister Fantastic, Invisible Girl, the Human Torch and Thing, Lee had created the geek culture and ushered in the golden era of comics. Geekiness was the new cool.

As he later said, being a geek was a badge of honour. "It's geeks who really make or break a TV show or a movie or a video game. They're the ones who are passionate about these things and who collect the paraphernalia and talk about them. A geek is really somebody interested in communication and entertainment and finding the best way to avail himself or herself to it," Lee had once said.

THE BEGINNING

Right after Fantastic Four, fans were drawn to lonely Peter Parker's tale, who developed 'spidey senses' after being bitten by a spider. And so, a gawky teenager was no longer just a sidekick in popular culture. He was a hero now.

Spider-Man was born. He could crawl up the sides of skyscrapers and jump from the highest of rooftops.

Most of us spent our childhoods hoping that if we were bitten by spiders, we could develop the same powers.

That was just how real Lee made these heroes for us. He didn't expect us to run around fighting crime or jump from a rooftop, but he wanted us to realise how our choices could make or break us and how we had to act on them.

From comics to films, he sparked our imaginations by envisioning brilliantly flawed characters, worlds and galaxies where after an enthralling battle, good triumphed over evil. He made us sit on the edge of our seats with the most thrilling cliff-hangers, including this year's record-breaking Avengers Infinity War.

He could see into our hearts and spin exciting stories with comic elements. These stories could make us laugh at one point, and push us into darkness in the next.

He knew how to make his audience understand the stakes.

A STAN-NING CHILDHOOD

As a child, I initially had a strong attachment to the X-Men characters more than to any other Marvel characters. I spent my time reading the comics and following the cartoon series that would come on television later, and compare the two.

Each character's power was unique and distinct, and oddly specific. There was a character like Gambit, who could charge playing cards with kinetic energy and throw them at opponents.

Indeed, these powers had been well thought out and crafted.

To be honest, I was awed by the 'weather-witch' Storm and wished to have powers that could control weather as well. Or maybe even Shadowcat, the ability to walk through walls and get out of awkward situations.

What was so attractive about these characters? Was it the fact that they were flawed and so real, despite having superhuman powers? Or was it that in spite of possessing special powers, they continued to be outcasts in a cold and hostile world?

Most of the characters had painful backstories that included torture and broken families.

Their powers were also their curse, as in the case of Rogue, who could never be physically intimate with anyone as she could drain the life-force of anyone she touched.

Even the villains like the shape-shifter Mystique and Magneto had fascinating histories and origin stories.

Sometimes it was difficult to find a beginning with these stories, and there never seemed to be an end.

And as I gradually read the tales of other superheroes like Spider-Man and watched the films from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, I felt myself drawn to this rather dark world of superheroes, which was laced with anger and frustration. Yet, hope would prevail in the form of a superhero alter-ego.

But this power had to be exercised with caution, as Lee reminded us several times. That with great power comes great responsibility. Nothing came easy.

That was the raw beauty of Lee's characters. Hulk, Iron Man, The Fantastic Four and Black Panther were real superheroes; complete, with real problems and real vulnerabilities.

THE END

With Lee's death on November 12, an era has come to an end. The Marvel Man died at the age of 95 after battling several illnesses for a long time.

Apart from a staggering legacy, he has left behind a trail of devastated fans, who owe him their treasured memories of childhood that involved poring over comic books and discussing each superhero and their lives in vivid detail.

We never wanted to imagine a day where a Marvel film would have to begin with 'In memory of Stan Lee'. We couldn't imagine a film where he wouldn't surprise us with his random cameos.

We cherished a bizarre hope that like his characters, he too would trudge on beyond death, with his cheeky and trademark grin.

====== 316 ========

SIVAKUMAR'S BEHAVIOUR SYMBOLISES EVERYTHING THAT IS WRONG WITH TAMIL SOCIETY

In Tamil Nadu, cinema is a religion. Stars are demigods, who have their respective brands of staunch believers. Like religious riots, fans of stars wage wars online frequently. In such an environment, veteran actor Sivakumar smashed the mobile phone of a guy who tried taking a selfie with the actor at an event in Chennai.

Now, Sivakumar has apologised. His words in the apology are condescending, to say the least. In the video, the actor says that 'a popular artist should tolerate all this'. But what the veteran fails to understand is that the fan in question would have tried taking a selfie even if it had been a not-so-well-known celebrity.

For the fan, it is just a photo that would go on his Facebook, Instagram and Whatsapp stories. He might even hate Sivakumar's acting, but when has that ever come in the way of a good (or bad) selfie? A selfie with any celebrity means more likes and reactions. So, maybe Sivakumar should stop assigning a lot of value to himself.

But then, Sivakumar does understand that it is guys like these who have put people like him where they are currently. That is the reason he is forced to come up with a non-apology.

Sivakumar, in the video, says, "If the majority of the people feel that Sivakumar shouldn't have done it whatsoever, then I regret my actions. I am very sorry." The veteran actor is apologising not because he feels he has wronged... but to save his name before the 'majority'.

One might argue that the so-called fan was actually invading the privacy of the senior actor. But looking at the video, one can be sure that the guy was actually at a distance, and it was Sivakumar who went out of his way, quite literally, to knock his phone away. Accompanying the gesture was that killer look on the face of the Tamil cinema's Markendeyan. That said it all.

This kind of arrogance seems to stem from the social status our celebrities seem to enjoy. Sivakumar has a pious image in Kollywood; thanks to his oratory skills on Hindu epic Mahabharata and other morals lessons. He is also the father of two successful actors - Suriya and Karthi.

Tamil Nadu saw a similar arrogance three years ago, in music legend Ilaiyaraaja. The iconic musician, who was visiting a school during the Chennai floods, was asked about the controversial 'Beep Song' by a reporter. Ilaiyaraaja, who had the option of walking away instead of responding, went on to blast the reporter and asked him 'if he had any sense'.

It is the same arrogance that made Superstar Rajinikanth lose his cool when he was bombarded with questions about his pro-government statements on the Sterlite shooting, that killed 11 people in Thoothukudi.

As long as Tamil Nadu worships its stars and recognises fandoms as religions, more fans will have to lose their mobile phones.

ALSO READ: Rajinikanth says owners of Sterlite Copper not humans if they challenge shutdown order

====== 317 ========

VADA CHENNAI FROM VETRI MAARAN IS NOT A FILM. IT IS AN EPIC

'A betrayal is a curse. But any history is replete with treacheries and curses. In truth, betrayal is an important event. A violation. When everything keeps happening undisturbed, even time turns stagnant. Betrayal, suddenly, disturbs the equilibrium. New paths are birthed. The unprecedented happens. A soul, disturbed by the inertness of the order, in search of new things, commits a betrayal.'

The aforementioned lines are from Tamil writer Jeyamohan's book Pei Kathaigalum Devathai Kadhaigalum. The lines give a different dimension to what we know of 'betrayal'. From Brutus to Peter Pettigrew, traitors have given birth to epics.

Vada Chennai opens with one such betrayal. And yes, it is Tamil cinema's new epic. Vetri Maaran's trysts with the trope of betrayal are a well-known phenomenon. In his first film, Polladavan, a gangster is killed by his own brother. In Aadukalam, a mentor betrays his pupil. Vada Chennai treads a similar path.

Vada Chennai has everything that distinguishes a film from an epic. Suddenly, you are no longer seeing Dhanush but Anbu, and soon you realise that the film is not just about these characters; it touches universal tropes like betrayal, loyalty, love, virtue and power.

Like all great epics, the story of Vada Chennai too is simple. A keen glance at the first-look posters and the captions of the film are enough for someone to connect the dots and deduce the story. In the age of militant secrecy in filmmaking, Vetri Maaran has just tossed away a lot of breadcrumbs beforehand, because he knows the story is not all in cinema. The suspense is not in the twist but in the way the film gets there, and Vetri knows it.

To put it loosely, Vada Chennai is about king Rajan (Ameer), who is killed by his own guys, and the subsequent rise of prince Anbu (Dhanush). But what good is a story without substance - something Vada Chennai has in abundance. The depth and the detailing every character gets in the film is astounding. After a point, it looks like the film is just writing itself.

For example, the character Thambi (Daniel Balaji) comes across as an ardent devotee. He doesn't look like one in his younger days. He changes as the result of his guilt. He is repenting throughout the film, which is realised in his restraint from violence, unlike his counterparts. Now, nothing about this is spelled out in the film but you still 'get it'.

The best character arc in the film is given to Andrea's Chandra. From being a Calphurnia (Ceaser's wife) warning Rajan of a bad omen, she goes on to become the cunning Machiavellian Saguni. The air around her, including that eerie close associate, lends a mythical aspect to the character.

When her character is juxtaposed with Aishwarya Rajesh's Padma, it looks like the two characters are headed towards the same destiny but are currently at different points. And that's the kind of depth the film has.

Another thing that makes the film an epic is that history repeats itself in Vada Chennai. At one point in time, a knife slips from Anbu's friend, revealing their intentions to their enemy. Anbu is forced to kill him - an event which topples his life over. Similarly, another knife slips from its place of concealment, which actually leads to the end of Rajan. The first slip leads to the birth of the prince and the second leads to the end of the king.

One cannot help but notice how Kaala and Vada Chennai have the same core, and how the same idea can be realised using completely different ways of storytelling. The heroes of both the films are fighting for their people... actually for the same cause. But Vada Chennai is lucid, takes its time to tell the problem, unlike Pa Ranjith's films, which always keeps the problems of the downtrodden a bit more abstract. In Vada Chennai, the issues are real and immediate.

The usage of real history in the film is just unprecedented in Tamil cinema. The Madras visit of Pope John Paul II in 1986 has a lot to do with the lives of people in Vada Chennai. Indirectly, the death of MGR actually leads to the death of Rajan in this intricately-written film.

One thing that gnaws about Vada Chennai is Anbu's super fast transformation from a carom mentor to the boss of the hood. Though the film was actually getting to that one point all along, the last portions of the film look a bit fast-forwarded. Vetri Maaran, in an interview, said that they actually had about five hours of footage for the first part and they had to condense it to 2.5 hours. Maybe the answers to the hurried leap are in those leftover 2.5 hours of Vada Chennai.

It would take years for Vetri Maaran to come up with a sequel to this stunning piece of work... and from the looks of it, the box office just cannot wait.

ALSO READ| Vada Chennai Review: Dhanush and Vetri Maaran gift kickass gangster film

====== 318 ========

THUGS OF HINDOSTAN REVIEW: AAMIR KHAN CANNOT SAVE THIS DIWALI SQUIB

It is not every day that you get to see an Aamir Khan film in the theatres. He appears on screen once in two years; once in a year if his fans are lucky, and is known to have the audience dance to his tune. But the Pied Piper of Bollywood stumbles and falls flat in Thugs of Hindostan. The film struggles to stay afloat with all the paraphernalia dragging it down. The heaviness of every scene and the heavy-handedness with which the film is taken forward weigh it down. But more on that later.

So who are these people? These 'thugs'? In its near-three-hour runtime, Thugs of Hindostan does everything but explain their identity properly. We are given an opening shot with Ronit Roy, the Nawab of Raunakpur building a sand-castle with his daughter Zafira. As their castle in Raunakpur tries to ward off the advances of the John Clive-led East India Company in 1795 Hindostan, we are told about the fierce commander Khudabaksh (Amitabh Bachchan in an age-defying role). John Clive (Lloyd Owen) almost but wipes away the Raunakpur nawab's clan. Khudabaksh arrives in a fantastic introduction scene, and takes off into the sunset with Zafira on his steed.

11 years later, the thugs of Hindostan pose a threat to the British. Clive's right-hand man Brown gets Firangi Mallah (Aamir Khan) to infiltrate the band of rebels and get the British the leader of the thugs. But his path is not easy.

As Firangi tries to play a thug to play the thugs, the audience is left yawning. Director Vijay Krishna Acharya bases his film on Philip Meadows' Confessions of A Thug. But if this three-hour assault on the senses is anything to go by, the director has done deep injustice to Meadows' work.

Thugs of Hindostan concentrates so much on its fight sequences that any scene without combat seems to stretch on till the end of time. You forget the dialogues before the actors are able to finish saying them. Amitabh Bachchan and Aamir Khan try their best to steer the film forward but do not succeed beyond the intermission. You can guess the twists from a light year away.

Vijay Krishna Acharya (Tashan, Dhoom 3), credited with both writing and directing the film, cannot make the most of his cast. So no matter how much a Khudabaksh tries to light the fire of azaadi in you, his words fall on deaf ears after a point of time.

Firangi Mallah's 'swabhav' of betraying people becomes way too predictable after you've seen two or three of his tricks.

Amitabh Bachchan is excellent in his battle scenes and makes you forget that you're watching a 76-year-old in action. So much so, that when he disappears from the film, you feel his absence. Aamir Khan fades in front of Bachchan. In an Aamir Khan film, that does not bode well.

Fatima Sana Shaikh has her moments, as does Mohammad Zeeshan Ayyub. The film's other heroine, Katrina Kaif, has a role that is over before you are done pronouncing her name. Katrina has exactly three scenes in this three-hour-long film... short by even Katrina Kaif-in-an-Aamir-Khan-film standards (remember Dhoom 3?).

Llyod Owen as the scheming British Companyman Clive - modelled on East India Company's Robert Clive - does not strike the kind of fear a villain of his stature required... especially in a film that claims to be grand from the word go.

The graphics are shoddy and Thugs of Hindostan sways between being a Game of Thrones rip-off and an animated version of Pirates of the Caribbean. By the time the climax arrives, you are stretching and fidgeting in your seat, waiting for Thugs to be over. The songs in the film exist only because Katrina Kaif exists. Ajay-Atul's music is thoroughly underwhelming.

There is hardly anything in the film that justifies the two-year wait that Aamir Khan made his fans go through. That is the problem of being a good actor with a nose for good scripts. Aamir Khan has built his reputation on good scripts. All of that is missing in his latest outing.

In Thugs of Hindostan, Firangi tells his friend, "Mere haath se zeher bhi kha loge kya?" Only if he could extend the poison to the audience too.

Thugs of Hindostan fails miserably. Aamir Khan and Amitabh Bachchan are unable to save this Diwali release, says our review.

1.5 stars out of 5 for Thugs of Hindostan.

(The writer tweets as @ananya116)

ALSO SEE: What you need to know about Thugs of Hindostan

ALSO SEE: Thugs of Hindostan trailer sees Aamir and Amitabh in duel of a lifetime

====== 319 ========

THUGS OF HINDOSTAN REVIEW: AAMIR KHAN AND AMITABH BACHCHAN FILM IS AN EPIC BORE

"Itna sannata kyon hai bhai"

For a film that often runs like an insipid throwback to Hindi cinema of the 1970s and 80s, this famous dialogue from Sholay appropriately sums up the first half of Thugs of Hindostan. The only marginally better second half - yes the standards are low - can't shake off the fact that writer-director Vijay Krishna Acharya despite mounting an impressive action film fails in presenting engaging characters and a moving narrative.

One of the biggest drawbacks of Thugs of Hindostan is its preoccupation with Aamir Khan's Firangi Mallah, a character with such shades of grey that after a point he is straight up dull and annoying. So much so that Mr Bachchan as the wise guardian and patriotic and idealistic warrior Khudabaksh aka Azaad gets his first noteworthy line after almost 40 minutes into the film. Fatima Sana Shaikh as Zafira, who has to look back repeatedly and hang from a wire and swing, gets her first line even later.

And if you thought Katrina Kaif had little to do in Dhoom 3, that sentiment will change after watching her terpsichorean talents in Thugs of Hindostan. Here she gets two songs, one of which will take you back to Himmatwala of the 1980s rather than the nineteenth century.

Firangi is a strange mix of Jack Sparrow, Munna from Rangeela and strangely Gollum from The Lord of the Rings. The 'mahaan kameena' sets aside his scruples for money and joins hands with whoever has more of it. He is loquacious, self-centred, street smart and a man who abhors faithfulness and attachment. In Acharya's telling there is a constant and desperate attempt to make him likeable by showboating his jocular sense, a move that never works. Furthermore it's baffling that for a character with the most screen time there is little of his past or his motive revealed. Was Acharya thinking of a sequel like Pirates of the Caribbean?

Khan plays him only as an eccentric buffoon, unable to mae what's meant to be an intriguing character unreadable. Net result: You can call Firangi's deception from afar. The one-note performance denies the film of any sense of conflict or suspense and also falls short on the humour front.

Where ToH stands apart is that Acharya takes the freedom struggle to the sea, literally, and brings the skills of LOTR's Legolas (Shaikh's black-haired and braided Zafira) and Gandalf (Bachchan's Azaad) to the movement as they combat the bad guys of the East India Company who have seized their kingdom and rendered them homeless. Zafira of course has a traumatic back story that leaves her with revenge on her mind. John Clive (Lloyd Owen) is the token bad white guy albeit one with better Hindi speaking skills than most bad whit guys in Hindi cinema so far.

There are brief flashes of imagination, almost all restricted to action, which are also the only moments of respite in this otherwise tiring action adventure. The ideological face off between Azaad and Phirangi never quite hits the dramatic potential. The calls for azaad - not azaadi because in this day and age that's a war cry used by those branded 'anti-national' -soon take over and Phirangi has to heed the call. Is he ready for the responsibility?

After two hours of directionless navigation, Thugs of Hindostan finally arrives at its intended destination. Only it's a scenario straight out of Ramesh Sippy's Sholay albeit with Mr Bachchan chained like Dharmendra's Veeru and watching an army of people dance for him including a heavily bronzed Kaif doing a vigorous Hema Malini act dressed like Sridevi. By the end of Thugs of Hindostan audiences will feel they have been looted of their time and denied the joy of watching two talented stars, Bachchan and Khan, come together for the first time.

Thugs of Hindostan, starring Amitabh Bachchan and Aamir Khan fails to impress and is an exhausting action adventure, says our movie review. 1.5 stars.

ALSO SEE: What you need to know about Thugs of Hindostan

ALSO SEE: Thugs of Hindostan trailer sees Aamir and Amitabh in duel of a lifetime

====== 320 ========

SARKAR MOVIE REVIEW: HERO VIJAY SHINES IN UNIMPRESSIVE DIWALI RELEASE

It's films like Sarkar that keep reminding us how our brand of cinema is entirely different from the general perception worldwide. If a film can be considered good if it succeeds in meeting all the goals it sets for itself, then Sarkar is a winner because its only mission seems to be selling Vijay as the other political prospect of Tamil Nadu - even if it means sacrificing the form. It is shockingly surprising that director AR Murugadoss has cut a lot of slack in his cinema to incorporate the hero that is 'Thalapathy' Vijay.

Sarkar is a propaganda film in many ways but here the filmmaker is not selling an ideology but a hero; a brand called Vijay, and it is safe to say that he succeeds. Sarkar is the kind of film that Rajinikanth or Kamal Haasan would have done eventually, but Vijay pulled the trigger first.

But Sarkar fails as far as cinema is concerned. The story, which has been making a lot of noise over the past few months, opens with NRI Sundar Ramaswamy (Vijay) the CEO of American corporate company GL, coming to India. His arrival is news. It sends chills down the spine of all the domestic corporate companies because he is a 'corporate monster' known for hostile takeovers and dissolving competitors. But the purpose of his visit is to cast his vote and return that very day. The twist is that his vote has already been cast by someone illegally.

The fight for his one vote takes Sundar on a journey that changes the fate of the state.

There is very little happening in Sarkar even till the interval. Apart from the 'massy' fight sequences which are compulsively in slow-mo, pleading the audience to hoot and whistle, not much is going on. There is very little drama in the film. Real-life politician Pala Karuppiah as the villain Masilamani doesn't look all that great as it sounds, but his daughter Papa (Varalaxmi) turns out be the only interesting character in Sarkar.

Keerthy Suresh as Nila is actually the third wheel in the romance that goes on between Vijay and his fans. She is omnipresent but has no reason to be so. It is one of the terribly-underwritten roles for a heroine in recent times. As Vijay fans drool over their star, she drools along with them, and our hero doesn't give two hoots about her.

After a point, Sarkar looks like a stretch of Vijay's speeches - on issues that range from Tamil Nadu fishermen to Jallikattu to freebies to what not - knitted one after the other in a weak narrative.

Coming to the only thing the film seems to care about - Vijay. He is, without a doubt, suave. AR Murugadoss seems to know the alchemy of making Vijay look his charismatic best. He is on top of his game when it comes to the dance numbers and sending goons up in the air, but fails to invoke empathy. His emotional segments don't do much to the viewer. But the film is not about his performance. For Vijay, Sarkar is something beyond box office, acting and success; it is an announcement... that he is very much in the game of thrones.

Vijay's big Diwali release Sarkar serves only its hero. Watch it for Vijay. There's not much more than that in the film, says our review.

2.5 stars out of 5 for Sarkar.

ALSO READ| Sarkar release on Diwali 2018: Vijay film gets 3400 screens worldwide

====== 321 ========

GENIUS MOVIE REVIEW: SUSIENTHIRAN PREACHES LIFE LESSONS IN BLAND DRAMA

On their way out, audiences kept telling 'nalla karuthu sollikaaru (the director has given us a good message)'. One probably has to wait a hundred years to see if Tamil filmmakers grow out of the habit of 'telling a message' in cinema, and another hundred years to see if they stop 'telling' in cinema, which is primarily a visual medium.

Susienthiran has been struggling to get back in form but after Genius, he will continue to do so. With Genius, Susienthiran joins Samuthirankani and Pandiraj's school of thought where the priority lies in the act of preaching social messages over showing a film. Genius gloriously fails as cinema and it is shockingly underwhelming from a director who has made quality films like Naan Mahan Alla and Azhagarsamiyin Kudhirai.

Genius is about Dhinesh Kumar (Roshan), who becomes a schizophrenia patient due to his over-demanding father (Aadukalam Naren). The first half of the film is all about the cause of the disease. When Dinesh's father gets addicted to all the claps and awards his over-achieving son gets in one school annual day, he swears to make him a role model for others.

He snatches Dhinesh's playtime, friends, and everything that makes up for a happy childhood. His ordeal continues in his teenage as well, which means Dhinesh grows up without any acquaintance with the people of opposite gender. At present, Dhinesh's boss has him overworked. All the childhood trauma and the work pressure peaks... and one day, Dhinesh snaps.

The second half is about the cure. This comes in form of Jasmine (Priya Lal), a prostitute. Yes, it looks as random as it reads. The film just travels on a different tangent post interval.

Roshan's performance is shockingly inadequate. He is another liability in this shoddy film. He repeats his limited expressions, turns caricaturish during the so-called emotional segments and totally sabotages the feel of the film. Aadukalam Naren is the only actor who helps.

Yuvan Shankar Raja's contribution to the film is infinitesimal if not nothing. The songs, which again echo the 'messages' of the film, are instantly forgettable. The good thing is they also get over instantly.

The intention of Genius - that children should play as much as they study - is noble and one can argue that it is also the need of the hour. But intentions alone don't make good cinema. Samuthirakani and the likes might keep making 'hits' with such good intentions. But, in failing to embrace the language and the form of cinema, they will continue to fail in making movies.

In a nutshell, Genius starring Roshan and Priya Lal is a shoddy film that fails to rise above the ordinary, says our review.

1.5 stars out of 5 for Genius.

ALSO READ: Hund reds of Vijay fans have acted in AR Murugadoss's Sarkar

====== 322 ========

PRIYANKA CHOPRA AND NICK JONAS ARRIVE IN MUMBAI AHEAD OF WEDDING

Caption:

After a whirlwind of a courtship, Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra are all set to get married in the next few weeks. Nick and Priyanka have just arrived in Mumbai.

====== 323 ========

RANVEER'S SISTER RITIKA THROWS EPIC DJ BASH FOR HIM AND DEEPIKA. SEE PICS

Caption:

Ranveer and Deepika had two dreamy weddings - one according to Konkani rituals and a traditional anand karaj ceremony - at the Villa del Balbianello on November 14 and 15 respectively.

====== 324 ========

TAIMUR ALI KHAN AND INAAYA NAUMI KEMMU STEP OUT FOR PLAYDATE. SEE PICS

Caption:

Saif Ali Khan, in an interview with a daily, joked that Taimur was a "ruffian", while Inaaya was "small and delicate".

====== 325 ========

VARUN AND GIRLFRIEND NATASHA DALAL JET OFF ON HOLIDAY WITH DAVID DHAWAN. SEE PICS

Caption:

Lovebirds Varun Dhawan and Natasha Dalal took off for a vacation with the actor's father David Dhawan.

====== 326 ========

OBJECTIFICATION OF WOMEN A STRICT NO-NO

Objectification of women is a non-negotiable clause under the terms and conditions laid by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), headed by noted lyricist, screenwriter and poet Prasoon Joshi, committee member Vani Tripathi said, on Sunday.

Addressing a gathering at Aaj Tak's literary fest, Sahitya AajTak, in New Delhi, Tripathi enumerated various incidents where the CBFC stood up a filmmaker just because his movie had an 'ill-intentioned' item number.

Bollywood has been notorious for objectifying women and recent strides in feminism in films have not done much to erase that streak. Richa Chadha, a part of the panel also comprising Tripathi and filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, spoke about how many filmmakers even today treat women as flesh.

====== 327 ========

WATCH: RANVEER AND DEEPIKA RETURN TO INDIA AFTER DREAM WEDDING IN ITALY

After enthralling fans back in India with their dreamy Lake Como wedding, Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone are back in Mumbai. The couple were snapped at the airport and were twinning in stunning Sabyasachi outfits.

Ranveer and Deepika got married at Lake Como, Italy on November 14 and 15. They will host two receptions in India, one for close family and friends on November 21 in Bengalaru, and another for the film fraternity on November 28 in Mumbai.

====== 328 ========

DEEPIKA AND RANVEER GET MARRIED: ALL THAT HAPPENED AT LAKE COMO

Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh are man and wife now. After dating for six years, the couple took their relationship to the next level by tying the knot at Lake Como in the presence of family and close friends. Ranveer and Deepika got married twice - once in accordance with Konkani tradition and the next day, in a typical Sindhi-Punjabi style.

While their wedding was nothing less than a fairytale romance, the lovebirds decided to keep it an intimate affair. So much so that no guests at the wedding was allowed to click pictures at the wedding. While #DeepVeer fans kept waiting for the wedding pictures with bated breath, the couple finally released the pictures after the two-day festivities.

Ranveer and Deepika are expected to return to India soon. They will then host three wedding receptions - one in Bengaluru on November 21, the other on November 28 in Mumbai for Ranveer's family and the third on December 1 for Bollywood friends.

====== 329 ========

DEEPIKA-RANVEER WEDDING: GROOM MAKES GRAND ENTRY ON MY NAME IS LAKHAN SONG

A day after tying the knot in a traditional Konkani wedding, Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone are now gearing up for a Sindhi-Punjabi wedding at Lake Como in Italy. Keeping up with his flamboyance, Ranveer made a grand entry to My Name Is Lakhan song. After that the entire baaraat danced to songs like Chunari Chunari, Tamma Tamma and Tune Maari Entriyaan. Ranveer being a huge fan of Govinda also shook a leg to Meri Pant Bhi Sexy. Today, Ranveer and Deepika will exchange vows in an Anand Karaj ceremony.

====== 330 ========

FREIDA PINTO TO MARRY BOYFRIEND CORY TRAN IN 2019?

Freida Pinto is set to tie the knot next year with boyfriend Cory Tran.

The wedding bug has bitten Bollywood. At a time when cinephiles are still recovering from Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh's dreamy wedding and gearing themselves for Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas wedding, another actress is set to take her relationship to the next level.

Freida Pinto of Slumdog Millionaire fame is in a relationship with adventure photographer Cory Tran for a while now. And according to a report in a leading daily, the actress is ready to tie the knot soon.

"Freida is contemplating marriage. They are serious about each other and Cory has even proposed to her. They are planning a small, intimate wedding sometime next year," a source told the daily.

It was Freida's co-star and Cory's bestie, actor Aaron Paul, who played cupid and introduced the two. "Although Freida is extremely guarded about her personal life, she has never shied away from acknowledging her relationships. But, she definitely wants her wedding to be a close-knit, private affair," added the source.

Freida posted a mushy birthday wish for beau on Instagram. She wrote, "How lucky is anyone who has been graced by your heart full of light! Birthday love, kisses and deep appreciation for you, my beautiful man! I celebrate you today and everyday. Happy Birthday love!"

On the work front, Freida was last seen in Love Sonia.

ALSO READ | Christian Bale and Freida Pinto to visit India for world premiere of The Jungle Book

ALSO READ | Freida Pinto supports Tanushree Dutta: What you have done is monumental and important

====== 331 ========

CHRISTIAN BALE AND FREIDA PINTO TO VISIT INDIA FOR WORLD PREMIERE OF THE JUNGLE BOOK

The trailer of Mowgli: Legend of The Jungle created quite a stir on the net with its realistic and rather dark retelling of the boy who was raised among wolves.

While other adaptations of Rudyard Kipling’s novel have usually tried to keep it on the lighter side, the new trailer seemed to come closer to the original story. Netflix has picked worldwide rights to the film and will stream Mowgli on December 7.

For the premier of the film, director Andy Serkis is coming to India along with the stars of the film including Christian Bale, Freida Pinto and newcomer Rohan Chand.

Serkis has lent his voice to the playful bear Baloo, and Bale voice stars as the serious panther, Bagheera.

The voice cast also includes Cate Blanchett as Kaa, Benedict Cumberbatch as Sher Khan, Naomie Harris as Nisha, Peter Mullan as Akela, Jack Reynor as Mowgli's brother Wolf, Eddie Marsan as Vihaan, Tom Hollander as Tabaqui and Matthew Rhys as Lockwood.

Serkis had said that the film is closest to Indian roots. However, he preferred to be discreet about the release of the film in India. "Well, I can't tell you what's happening. The film will be seen in India. I'm not sure if I can release the timings. But there will be very significant moment where this film begins its life in India," Serkis told PTI in Singapore.

====== 332 ========

PAMELA ANDERSON SLAMS #METOO MOVEMENT AND CALLS FEMINISM BORING

The sexual harassment allegations against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein in October 2017 sparked the #MeToo movement in Hollywood, and women came forward and shared their horror stories of sexual assault, inappropriate behaviour and misconduct at the hands of powerful men in the industry.

While the movement has received overpowering support from people, there are many who have expressed their reservations about it. Recently, Pamela Anderson, who was popular for her 90's TV show Baywatch, slammed the movement on a talk show.

"I think this feminism can go too far. I'm a feminist, but I think that this third wave of feminism is a bore. I think it paralyzes men," she said, adding, "I think that this #MeToo movement is a bit too much for me. I'm sorry, I'll probably get killed for saying that." To which her interviewer replied, "Yes, you will."

She went on to speak about Harvey Weinstein and the accusations against him and implied that women who went to meet him in hotel rooms should have used "common sense".

Pamela said, "My mother taught me, don't go into a hotel with a stranger. And if someone answers the door in a bathrobe and it's supposed to be a business meeting, maybe I should go with somebody else. I think that some things are just common sense." She then proceeded to say, "Or if you go in, get the job," and laughed.

In October, the #MeToo movement was sparked in India, after Tanushree Dutta came forward and accused Nana Patekar of sexually harassing her on the sets of Horn Ok Pleassss in 2008. Soon, faces were unmasked in Bollywood, as veteran filmmakers and actors like Subhash Ghai, Sajid Khan, Vikas Bahl and Rajat Kapoor were accused of sexual misconduct.

ALSO READ | Kangana Ranaut on Vikas Bahl: He'd bury his face in my neck and hold me tight

ALSO READ | Queen director Vikas Bahl sexually assaulted me: Woman recounts horror

====== 333 ========

CHRIS HEMSWORTH SHOOTS FOR NETFLIX FILM DHAKA IN AHMEDABAD. SEE PICS

Chris Hemsworth shared several photos from his shooting location in Ahmedabad.

Chris Hemsworth is in India and is having a whale of a time. The Thor actor is shooting for his upcoming Netflix film Dhaka, and has been constantly documenting his India visit in his Instagram stories.

Today, Chris shared a series of selfies clicked with children in Ahmedabad. Fans are beyond happy to pose with their reel-life superhero. He captioned the post, "Beyond thankful for the kindness and generosity that the people of India have extended to us while making our little film here."

Earlier, he had a taste of bad traffic jam as well. However, keeping things positive and cheery, he wrote, "Beautiful chaos."

Chris Hemsworth shared this photo on his Instagram story.

Dhaka, penned by Anthony Russo, is a kidnap extraction drama that revolves around a mercenary named Rake, who is hired to save the son of a businessman. The film will be shot in India and Indonesia.

Apart from Dhaka, Chris Hemsworth will next be seen in the highly-anticipated sequel to Avengers: Infinity War, in which he will reprise the role of Thor (God Of Thunder). The film also stars Robert Downey Jr, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Benedict Cumberbatch and Josh Brolin among others.

====== 334 ========

IS ANGELINA JOLIE DATING JENNIFER ANISTON'S EX-HUSBAND JUSTIN THEROUX?

Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's separation in 2016 sent ripples of shock across the world. The former power couple, who married in 2014 after dating for several years, cited irreconcilable differences. Since then, Jolie has been linked with many popular co-stars, including Johnny Depp.

The latest rumour doing the rounds is that Jolie is dating Jennifer Aniston's ex-husband Justin Theroux.Aniston and Theroux had separated in February, this year. What's more interesting is that Jen was once married to Brad Pitt.

According to an international tabloid Life & Style, the two connected over a film project and realised that they had many things in common. According to the report, Jolie and Theroux have been going out for quiet dinners and close friends think they're developing feelings for each other. They met in a New York restaurant, back in August.

"Since that night, their relationship has only grown in momentum and intensity. Friends wouldn't be surprised if they're sending steamy texts and having secret sleepovers. It's the best-kept secret, but it's not like Angie is worried about the romance getting out. The reality is that they're really into each other," the insider claims.

The source also said that Theroux is 'charmed' by Jolie's love and passion for her work, human rights and filmmaking. Apparently Jolie caught on to Theroux's humour, something Jen could never do.

"She'll be devastated when she finds out. Can you imagine? The woman who wrecked your marriage to Brad is now dating your last ex-husband? Jen will be in tears," the source claimed.

Apparently, Justin doesn't want to hurt Jennifer, but Angelina doesn't care, as it's a win-win situation for her.

However, another report by Gossip Cop said that there is no truth to the rumours and that Jolie is only focused on her career and children.Theroux's representative told the site no such meeting had ever happened.

ALSO SEE: Has Jennifer Aniston turned to ex-boyfriend Gerard Butler as her marriage crumbles?

====== 335 ========

ISN'T IT ROMANTIC TRAILER: PRIYANKA CHOPRA IS RAVISHING BUT BARELY THERE

Fans of Priyanka Chopra will be left majorly disappointed with the trailer of Isn't It Romantic that has just made its way to the internet. While the 'desi girl' looks ravishing in her third Hollywood venture, after Baywatch and A Kid Like Jake, she has only a blink-and-miss appearance and a single dialogue in the two-and-a-half-minute trailer.

Isn't It Romantic revolves around the life of Natalie (Rebel Wilson), an architect who is disenchanted with love and thinks romantic comedies "are lies set to terrible pop songs".

During an attempted subway mugging, she hits her head on a pole and passes out, only to wake up in an alternate universe in which she lives in an envy-inducing apartment with a walk-in shoe closet, a "gay sidekick" and a handsome suitor (Liam Hemsworth). "My life has become a romantic comedy...and it's PG-13," she exclaims in horror as the realisation hits her.

Netizens pointed out similarities with Amy Schumer-starrer I Feel Pretty, in which a young woman who is insecure about her appearance has a nasty fall while working out and hits her head. She wakes up with the belief that she is gorgeous and approaches the world with her newfound confidence.

Priyanka will be seen playing a yoga ambassador named Isabella in Isn't It Romantic, while Adam Devine will play Natalie’s best friend Josh. Directed by Todd Strauss-Schulson, the film is slated to release on Valentine’s Day 2019.

WATCH THE TRAILER HERE

ALSO READ | Priyanka Chopra on being a global icon: Trying to make the best of my life

ALSO READ | Priyanka hits back at naysayers: I was told Indians aren't cut out for Hollywood

====== 336 ========

RANVEER GOES SUPER DARK FOR WEDDING RECEPTION DINNER IN MUMBAI

Caption:

Adorned with a literal panther-mask spotlight on the shoulder, Ranveer's dark look did not disappoint us at all. He styled it with heavy fine necklaces from Amrapali jewels and Victorian-styled rings.

====== 337 ========

MALAIKA ARORA FLAUNTS HER CURVES IN TOP AND SHORTS AT GYM. SEE PICS

Caption:

She left her gorgeous tresses open as she left for the gym. She combined it with nude lips and bare face.

====== 338 ========

KAREENA KAPOOR COMBINES COMFORT WITH STYLE IN ALL-BLACK AIRPORT LOOK

Caption:

Kareena donned a comfy oversized black tee and black pants to the airport, giving us a masterclass on how to combine comfort with style.

====== 339 ========

INDIGO KICKSTARTS WINTER SALE WITH FLIGHT TICKETS STARTING AT RS 899

IndiGo airlines has rolled out a lucrative offer for all its flyers under its new 'FARE-tastic winters!' scheme.

The airline kickstarted its winter sale with low fare tickets for both international and domestic flyers.

Under the sale, the fares for domestic flyers start at Rs 899 and the fares for international flyers start at Rs 3,199.

The lowest fare of Rs 899 available under the offer is for the Bagdogra to Guwahati route.

The booking period of the offer starts from 06:00 am on November 21, 2018 and will continue till 11:59 pm on November 25, 2018.

The fares provided under the offer are all-inclusive and the bookings can be made through all channels.

The offer is valid for bookings made during the offer period, at least fifteen days prior to the date of departure, provided that the date of travel is no later than April 15, 2019, the airline said.

Also, limited number of seats is available under the sale and therefore discounts will be provided according to availability.

The offer is not applicable on group bookings option provided by the airline and is valid on all routes of the airline.

The travel period of the offer starts from December 6, 2018 and will go on till April 15, 2019.

ALSO SEE | Stories from Travel and Aviation

ALSO SEE | Indian passport holders can travel visa-free to Thailand this December

ALSO SEE | Survey says India is the most vacation deprived country in the world

====== 340 ========

PREGNANT MEGHAN AND HARRY MOVING OUT OF KENSINGTON PALACE. THIS IS WHY

Seems like the rumours that have been doing rounds for a while are apparently true; pregnant Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are moving away from Prince William and Kate Middleton.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are apparently moving into the 10-bedroom Frogmore Cottage on the grounds of Windsor Castle, gifted to them by Queen Elizabeth.

The news came after rumours started doing rounds that the Royals were considering breaking up their joint court at Kensington Palace.

According to Mirror UK, pregnant Meghan and Harry came to this decision after continued tensions between the couples.

Reportedly at their new cottage, Meghan and Harry will enjoy a nursery and space for a personal gym and yoga studio.

Apparently the couple will also renovate the whole cottage according to their tastes and preferences.

The Royal couple plans to move in by 2019, just in time for Meghan's delivery.

The cottage is already familiar to them as it resides in the same place where the couple got married and shot their engagement photos.

Meanwhile, Prince William and Kate will stay at their Kensington Palace residence.

The change comes after the Duke and Duchess of Sussex decided to forge their own way, different from Prince William and Kate Middleton.

ALSO SEE | Is this what Meghan and Harry will name their baby? Prince Charles drops major hint

ALSO WATCH | Meghan Markle-Prince Harry expecting their first child

====== 341 ========

JANHVI KAPOOR DAZZLES LIKE A BUTTERFLY IN WHITE CROP TOP AND SKIRT

Short description:

Janhvi Kapoor recently attended the 2018 International Film Festival of India in Goa. The actress was accompanied by her father Boney Kapoor to the event.

====== 342 ========

MALAIKA ARORA STEPS OUT IN RS 90K SHOES FOR DINNER DATE WITH ARJUN KAPOOR

Caption:

Adding a dash of charm, Malaika's red Valentino rockstud bodytech boots were the highlight of her look. But it was the price of the glam boots that blew away our mind even more.

====== 343 ========

MANUSHI CHHILLAR IS AN ETHEREAL PRINCESS IN THIS DREAMY WHITE DRESS

Manushi Chhillar, who is in China to crown the next Miss World 2018, is reliving the best moments of her life at the ongoing pageant in the country.

Manushi was also crowned the winner of the Miss World 2017 pageant at Sanya in China, where the competition is currently taking place.

The diva has been posting pictures of her from the competition with emotional nostalgic captions, reminiscing her Miss World 2017 days.

She took to Instagram recently to post another picture, looking resplendent as ever. In the stunning post, the diva can be seen wearing a white midi, channeling princess vibes.

Manushi posted the dreamy photo with caption, "#FreeSpirited". For the new post, Manushi radiated free spirit vibes and donned a stunning, spaghetti sleeved TheMonkeyBrainCo beach summer dress.

Manushi Chhillar Photo: Instagram/manushi_chhillar

The delicate neckline and button-detailing on the dress added an elegant charm to her whole look.

The diva spilled some chic ethereal white magic in her gorgeous ensemble,which she styled with loosely-curled, half-tied open tresses.

Manushi Chhillar Photo: Instagram/manushi_chhillar

With strong brows, pink metallic-hued eyes, mauve lips, kohl-adorned eyes and glowing make-up, Manushi rounded off her look.

She gave it a finishing touch with gold hoop earrings and a pretty flower. She was styled by her personal stylist Shefali J.

Manushi will crown the Miss World 2018 on December 8, 2018 in Sanya, China.

ALSO SEE | Manushi Chhillar is spreading love at an orphanage in China. See pics

====== 344 ========

SURVEY SAYS INDIA IS THE MOST VACATION DEPRIVED COUNTRY IN THE WORLD

India is the most vacation deprived country in the world. Photo: Reuters

Do you always feel that you are exhausted and in immediate need of a break? Are you so burdened with work that you haven't been able to take even one vacation in the last six months?

Well then, you are not alone. Almost all your Indian brothers and sisters are with you on this one.

According to the annual Vacation Deprivation Survey by Expedia, a global travel agency, India is the most vacation deprived country in the world in 2018.

While India was on number 5 on the same list last year, it has gone up to the first place and it's not a good situation.

According to the survey, 68 percent of people cancelled or postponed their vacations due to work in 2018.

Almost 53 percent Indians take fewer vacation leaves than they get officially and 35 percent people don't take those leaves because their hectic work schedule does not allow them to.

Low manpower in companies is also a main reason for this.

Out of the 19 countries that were a part of this survey, Indians were the ones who were most vary of taking vacations for one reason or another.

25 percent people think that they will miss out on important work if they take a break while 18 percent people are of the opinion that strong and successful people don't take vacations.

The reasons are bizarre but apparently 68 percent Indians believe them.

ALSO SEE | Changi airport in Singapore is under Harry Potter's magical spell. See pics

ALSO WATCH | New electric buses launched for Sabarimala devotees

====== 345 ========

KAREENA KAPOOR KHAN IS GETTING HER BLING ON IN A SEXY THIGH-HIGH SLIT SKIRT

Caption:

Kareena Kapoor Khan just knows how to nail every outfit she dons. She stepped out looking like a diva in a blingy skirt and we couldn't help but say wow.

====== 346 ========

IS THIS WHAT MEGHAN AND HARRY WILL NAME THEIR BABY? PRINCE CHARLES DROPS MAJOR HINT

Prince Charles reveals what Meghan and Harry might name their baby.

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are expecting their first child in Spring next year i.e. anytime between March to June, 2019.

While the soon-to-be parents are very excited about the little bundle of joy, people all around the world are taking guesses and even placing bets on what the couple will name the Royal baby.

Amid all this bubbling excitement, Prince Charles seems to have dropped a major bomb by revealing what he thinks Meghan and Harry might name the baby.

According to a report in Express, the Prince of Wales while speaking at a reception to mark the late mother-in-law of Australia House, Charles joked about all the unexpected and rare names Harry and Meghan might come up with.

He said:

"Incidentally ladies and gentlemen, my son Harry tells me that during their recent tour of Australia, he and his wife were offered countless thoughtful suggestions for the naming of their forthcoming baby... Just between us, I suspect that Kylie and Shane may possibly make the shortlist."

Okay then, we have two names given to us by a member of the Royal family. But wait, Charles also told the guests present at the event what the names will definitely not be.

"But ladies and gentlemen, I would not hold your breath for Edna or Les."

Now that we know what might and might not be the Royal baby's name, we are even more excited for the little one to come into this world so that we can know for sure.

ALSO SEE | Prince George and Princess Charlotte with little Louis make for perfect portrait on Charles's 70th birthday

ALSO WATCH | Meghan Markle-Prince Harry expecting their first child

====== 347 ========

FAIRY PRINCESS TO BOHO CHIC: MANUSHI CHHILLAR IS A SIGHT TO BEHOLD IN THESE PICTURES

Caption:

Manushi has been experimenting with a lot of looks on her recent visit. Here she is seen in a tie-up crop top with flared denims. Quite boho, we say.

====== 348 ========

SALMAN KHAN CYCLES THROUGH THE SCENIC HILLS OF ARUNACHAL PRADESH. SEE PICS

Salman Khan cycled through scenic hills as he kick-started the Mechuka Adventure Festival 2018 in Arunachal Pradesh, which started on Thursday i.e November 22.

Salman, who is the ambassador for Arunachal Pradesh tourism, assured that he will visit the North East Frontier state for a week again and even plan a shoot there sometime.

Very soon Salman will hold a medical camp by Being Human Fundation across the state. Earlier, Salman Khan arrived at Dibrugarh airport and left for Mechuka in the West Siang district.

Minister of State for Home Affairs Kiren Rijiju, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu extended a warm welcome to the star as they were also present at the inaugural function of the festival.

Interedtingly, Salman along with the politicians rode the bicycle in the rally with Kiren Rijiju, Pema Khandu, perhaps testing the physical fitness of the politicians in the North East of India.

(With inputs from Hemanta Kumar Nath)

ALSO SEE | Salman Khan promises to shoot upcoming film in scenic Arunachal

ALSO WATCH | Salman Khan turns peacemaker between Kapil Sharma and Sunil Grover?

====== 349 ========

SABYASACHI AND CHRISTIAN LOUBOUTIN DESIGN BESPOKE FOOTWEAR FOR DEEPIKA-RANVEER WEDDING

Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone's wedding was unique in more ways that one. Not only did they opt to get married at a quaint location in Italy, they also kept it a quiet and private affair.

Their outfits were gorgeous and specially designed for their big day. But it looks like it wasn't just their outfits that were bespoke, but their footwear too.

Sabyasachi, the designer who styled Deepika and Ranveer for most all their wedding looks, collaborated with Christian Louboutin and came up with bespoke juttis for the gorgeous couple's wedding day.

Take a look:

The beautifully colour coordinated and heavily embroidered juttis were made to order for the star couple.

Just look at the intricate threadwork and sequin designs on Deepika's juttis. Aren't they just as pretty and regal as her lehenga?

And nothing but the best and royal pair for our Sindhi groom, Ranveer.

Well, being a celebrity (and a super gorgeous one at that) has its perks, we guess!

ALSO SEE | Ranveer and Deepika are back in Mumbai after Bengaluru reception

ALSO WATCH | Ranveer and Deepika's Bengaluru reception was a regal affair

====== 350 ========

HEALTH MEETS WELLNESS AT THIS LUXURIOUS RESORT

Nothing can be more beneficial than spending your vacation at a resort that keeps wellness as its key priority. Spread across a sprawling area on the way to Jaipur, Sukaya Wellness Resort’ brings guests closer to the concept of a wellness resort that perfectly blends traditional approaches and ancient wellness techniques with the best of modern luxury. Special villas have been designed to take luxury to the next level.

Sukaya Wellness Resort offers a range of yoga, Ayurveda, meditation, rejuvenation, detoxification and weight loss services

In collaboration with Kairali Ayurveda Group, Sukaya Wellness Resort is present in three continents, nine countries at 35 location. It brings together some of the best practices of yoga, ayurveda and meditation, and welcomes guests with its top range of facilities and services that have been designed keeping in mind the importance of a healthy body and mind.

At Sukaya, you can plan ways to relax and rejuvenate on the basis of the yoga, ayurveda, meditation, rejuvenation, detoxification, stress, weight and diabetic management services available. While the aqua yoga is ideal for people with joint pain and helps improve strength and flexibility, the rejuvenation program will improve skin complexion, increase physical and mental capabilities and memory power sensing capacities of sense organs.

The treatments are supplemented with a healthy and flavorsoume diet.

The weight loss therapy, detox therapy (to uplift the body, mind and soul), mud therapy (to refresh, invigorate and revitalise the system) and weight loss treatments are supplemented with a supervised healthy and flavoursome diet to increase efficacy. Indoor yoga and meditation hall, four ayurveda therapy rooms with steam facilities, three aromatherapy rooms, a room for mud therapy, gymnasium and juice bar, separate male and female sauna are some of the other services available at Sukaya.

For those looking for personalised kits, the wellness resort houses yoga accessories and kits for both men and women. Not only this, experts from the health fraternity form part of this Indian traditional system of wellness.

Wellness at Sukaya

Sukaya also believes in giving back to the society and plans to donate one per cent of its profits to the local administration of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao. Additionally, Sukaya’s efforts in skilling 10 girls (free of cost) every year will make them take charge as ayurveda specialists.

Dr. Santosh Singh shares, "We would be present in three countries by 2023. Brig. Kartar Singh, Ex-V.C. Patanjli University and Dr. Santosh Singh invite like-minded people to join hands with them and own a business venture by investing with them in Sukaya Wellness Resort unique profit sharing membership." They claim that by investing at Sukaya, one can enjoy the club membership benefits at the same time earn a regular return on investment.

The conference is only by invite, and registration can be done by mailing at sukayawellness@gmail.com

Date: October 6, 2018

Register at: sukayawellness@gmail.com

Contact No.: 8851100758

Timings: Saturday & Sunday 9 am 6 pm

Address: Oval Business Center, Vivanta By Taj, Dwarka, Metro Station Rd, Sector 21, Dwarka, New Delhi - 110075

Resort Address: Sukaya Wellness, K221 Mordha NH8 Delhi-Jaipur highway Rajasthan

====== 351 ========

ADD THESE FOOD ITEMS TO YOUR DIET TO KEEP THE FLU AT BAY THIS SEASON

As much as we all enjoy rains and the slightly chilly weather right before the winter season kickstarts, one cannot avoid the rise in the chances of catching the seasonal flu during this weather.

With frequent showers hitting the country almost every day, the chances of catching a common cold, viral fever or influenza during this time is very high.

Therefore, it becomes important to safeguard ourselves from these commonly occurring flu and their symptoms because of the changes in weather.

There are certain food items that can actually help you in doing that by boosting the immunity system. These superfoods carry healthy nutrients and can be easily found in your kitchen.

Here are a few items that you can include in your daily diet.

Spinach, Kale, Cabbage, Broccoli

Green vegetables

It is a universal fact that adding green vegetable, especially leafy vegetables, into your diet can safeguard your body from several diseases. Its health benefits cannot be overstated. These items are not only good source of vitamins like A, C and E, but they also boost our immunity.

Garlic

Garlic is probably one of the most common ingredients in the kitchen, but this taste-enhancer is highly valued for its numerous health benefits since ancient times. It contains antiviral, antifungal and antibacterial properties. The best way to get the maximum benefits of this superfood is by eating it raw everyday. Its immunity-boosting properties will work like a flu-preventing medicine.

Yogurt, Lassi, Chach

Yogurt bowl

Probiotics are the best source of good bacteria or microbes, which not only help in digestion but also helps in building your immunity system. It also prevents inflammation and infections, and regulates metabolism.

Ginger

Like garlic, this medicinal root should be a part of your daily diet during monsoons and winters. This universal ayurvedic medicine helps in rejuvenating your system, providing warmth to your body, breaking congested mucous due to cold and curing other respiratory illness. It's always better to use fresh ginger in your daily meals and tea, or you can also eat it raw.

Citrus fruits

Citrus fruits

Fruits like oranges, kinnow, lemon, lime, tomato, pineapple and even peppers are rich forms of vitamin C that helps in building a strong immunity system. These fruits carry anti-oxidants that is good for your health.

Mushrooms

Mushrooms are great immune boosters. They contain vitamin D that helps in building and strengthening the immune system of our body. Go for mushrooms that contain potent phytonutrients, like shitake, reishi, enoki, and maitake. You can have it in your favorite dishes, soups, salads, or you can also consume them raw.

ALSO READ | Kareena's dietician Rujuta Diwekar on PCOD: Symptoms and treatment

ALSO WATCH | Foods that can help you heal naturally

====== 352 ========

REIGNING KING AMONG SOUTH INDIAN RESTAURANTS

A meal at a south Indian restaurant might have translated to 'idli-dosa-sambar' to north Indians a few years ago, but thankfully, with restaurants like Mahabelly opening up in the city, you can now have your fill of authentic appams and stew. We venture there on a Saturday evening and it's packed, with a long waiting queue as well.

We get seated in a corner and are immediately served some prawn wafers. Their staff quickly take our orders as we ensure not to fill up on the addictive wafers and distract ourselves by the quirky caricatures put up all on the walls.

We start our meal with their Pork Fry or Ularthiyathu which is essentially bite-sized pork chunks roasted with grated coconut, spices and chillies. It's well-spiced and has a zing, and you only get a glimmer of the coconut flavour. Their Erachi Double Fry or Kondattam is a tenderloin version of the same, and goes well with their Malabar Porotta - which is soft and crunchy, flaky and together all at the same time. Definitely the best in the city.

The quintessential buff pickle from Kerala

Next up is their flavourful Fish Cutlet which tastes homemade and reminds us of a Keralite friend's grandmother used to make on rainy afternoons. Their Prawn Varathathu or Pepper Fry is succulent and packed with pepper, and would make for the perfect bar bite. The starters are served with two pickle options -mutton and buff. We can't get enough of their mains - Chicken Stew and Prawn Mango Curry.

Prawn Mango Curry

The stew is a dreamy traditional curry with spices and coconut milk. The chicken melts off the bone and their aromatic rice, tossed in ghee and topped with fried onions, also called Neychoru, goes perfectly with it. Their signature Malabar Prawn Mango Curry is tangy and spicy, a unique blend that works well with their fluffy-onthe-inside and crisp-on-theoutside appams. We'd go here for their appams alone, but the rest of the menu also stole pieces of our heart.

We pick their Payasam for dessert, which is not too sweet and doesn't have an overwhelming coconut flavour.

They also have a plethora of shakes and smoothies like the Peanut Butter Shake, Date and Honey Smoothie, and Apple and Fig smoothie. You should also try their Kulukki Serbet (essentially a pineapple & lime sherbet) and Raw Mango Cucumber Delight.

And yes, they also serve the idli-dosa-vada options, but we can't promise we'll be able to tear ourselves away from the rest of the menu we will be back to explore.

-Mahabelly is located at MA-A05, Ground Floor, Restaurant Block, DLF Place Mall, Saket, New Delhi. Timing: 11am to 10:45pm

ALSO READ | Eat more and lose weight with these three simple rules

====== 353 ========

KAREENA'S DIETICIAN RUJUTA DIWEKAR ON PCOD: SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT

Rujuta Diwekar has suggested remedies to deal with PCOD. Pictures courtesy: Instagram/rujuta.diwekar; Pinterest

A lot of women today suffer from PCOD (Polycystic Ovarian Disease), thanks to the unhealthy lifestyle that many of us lead.

Polycystic Ovarian Disease is a common reproductive endocrine disorder among women of reproductive age. It is a common cause of infertility, menstrual irregularity and excessive hair growth.

Even today, PCOD or PCOS (Polycystic ovary syndrome) is not entirely understood by people. Due to lack of awareness about this health condition, it often remains undetected and untreated for years.

Clearing misconceptions about PCOD, popular dietician Rujuta Diwekar recently shared certain remedies that can help cure the disorder.

Diwekar categorically mentioned the "real indicators" of PCOD - energy levels through the day, sleep quality at night and compliance to exercise plan.

WHAT SHOULD ONE EAT TO ENSURE A PROPER PERIOD CYCLE?

"A diverse diet is key to maintaining diverse gut bacteria which in turn helps with insulin sensitivity and regulates periods," Diwekar wrote.

The super foods for PCOD include coconut, ghee, jaggery, aliv seeds, raw banana, suran (edible tuber), sprouted legumes, and nachni (finger millet).

HOW TO ENSURE PAIN-FREE PERIOD

Diwekar also suggested ways to ensure pain-free period. These comprise weight training once a week, practising yoga asanas, and having calcium and B12 supplement during the entire week of the period.

Read the full post here:





Also Read: Kareena Kapoor's dietician is calling this juice the 'new Maggi of the Himalaya'

Also Watch: Foods that can help you heal naturally

====== 354 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE AND KATE MIDDLETON ARE TWINNING IN SIMILAR OUTFITS YET AGAIN

Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle are twinning in similar outfits.

Meghan Markle and Kate Middleton are two stylish duchesses of the British Royal family. They have a stunning sense of fashion, but are usually dressed quite differently from each other.

But sometimes, they end up twinning in similar outfits. Call it a royal coincidence or whatever, it's a treat to the eyes when the two sisters-in-law step out looking gorgeous in similar looks.

This happened recently when both Kate and Meghan wore burgundy-toned outfits to different events on the same day.

Meghan wore a maroon dress by Club Monaco with a burgundy overcoat and black leggings for a day of cooking at the Hubb Community Kitchen.

Kate opted to repeat her outfit by Paule Ka that she has been seen in a number of times. She nailed the maroon-burgundy outfit yet again, pairing it with black leggings and heels. She was attending an event at neuroscience unit at University College, London.

Meghan opted for light make-up and tied her hair in a low ponytail. Her pregnancy glow made her glow.

Kate also tied her hair in a low ponytail and her make-up was the usual au naturel that she opts for.

Well, we think both of them nailed the look in their own way. What do you think? Any favourites?

ALSO SEE | Meghan and Harry have taught PDA to Kate and William. Here is proof

ALSO WATCH | World gets first glimpse of Prince William and Kate Middleton's baby

====== 355 ========

THESE CHAPPALS COST RS 45K. BUT THE PRODUCT REVIEWS ARE PRICELESS

Have you ever thought how much a pair of normal looking, luxurious flip-flops would cost?

Take a wild guess and quote the highest price that comes to your mind. Did it go beyond Rs 10,000?

Well, if not, then we are here to burst your bubble because Valentino, in collaboration with Havaianas brand, just launched a pair of luxurious flip-flops aka chappals. It is priced at a whopping cost of Rs 45k, which is not even our monthly salary!

Valentino launched chappals for Rs 45k

Available on sale on Amazon and limited to only 3 units per customer (as if someone's going to buy more than one), this fancy pair of chappals is only available for men.

The website also offers EMI (for those who dream of having high-class flip-flops but with zero bank balance) which starts at Rs 2,137.

Valentino launched chappals for Rs 45k

The website also charges an import fee deposit of Rs 766 to deliver the chappals.

It also has some amazing features like army camouflage rubber sole, fuchsia rubber straps and everything you need for a luxurious walk on a remote beach, as told on the website.

If you are still not convinced that this is the product of a lifetime, the product also has some amazing reviews to validate its mind-blowing price. Read the best reviews below:

Review of Valentino men's Havaianas flip flop

Review of Valentino men's Havaianas flip flop

Review of Valentino men's Havaianas flip flop

So, are you ready to dish out all your savings and sell your kidneys to get your hands on this amazing chappal?

ALSO SEE | People are paying Rs 2 lakh for a sweater to just go topless

====== 356 ========

INDIAN PASSPORT HOLDERS GET E-VISA TO VISIT THESE 5 BREATHTAKING COUNTRIES

Indian passport holders have the option of travelling to some of the most beautiful countries in the world on e-visa

For all those who spend a considerable amount of their holidays and money on international trips, you know what the process of getting a visa accompanies.

Think of those long hours spent getting your documents in order, then getting an appointment, then going through with the face-to-face interview at the visa centre. And then, of course, is the toughest part of the journey: Waiting to see if you have been granted a visa or not.

For countries that have notoriously difficult visa rules in place for Indian passport holders (Europe, USA, are you listening?), waiting for the visa seems a Herculean task.

What is worse is during this waiting period, you don't even know whether to begin planning an itinerary or not. And then by the time you actually get your visa-stamped passport, you need to rush through your travel planning because there's hardly any time left. Unless you apply for a visa all those months in advance!

On your ordinary Indian passport, as of 2018, you can travel visa-free to 25 countries. You can get a visa on arrival in 41 countries this year, and you need a pre-travel visa for 132 countries.

So the next time you are thinking of a foreign trip, maybe choose one of those countries where you can apply for an e-visa.

WHAT IS AN E-VISA?

Short for electronic visa, an e-visa is what you can apply online on the visa website of a particular country. An e-visa is essentially the same as a sticker visa that is stamped on your passport, except that you can apply for it on your own instead of going through an agency (VFS, usually, that looks after visa applications from Indian passport holders to the maximum number of countries).

Take a look at some of these beautiful countries that offer e-visa to Indian passport holders. That takes care of some of your visa worries.

MALAYSIA

E-VISA FOR INDIANS: Malaysia offers e-visa for Indians at a cost of Rs 2,800 for a period of 15 days' stay in the country. Before April 2017, a visa to Malaysia for Indian passport holders took 2 to 15 days to be approved. But with the number of tourists from India going up each month, the Malaysian government eased visa rules for Indian passport holders.

Now, Indians can get an eNTRI note (arrival registration) and can enter Malaysia for stay up to 15 days. The eNTRI visa is approved within one to two hours of applying: this is the main advantage of this visa.

If you want to stay in Malaysia for up to 30 days, a single entry visa will cost you Rs 4,000 and a multiple entry visa is for Rs 4,500.

Malaysia offers e-visa to Indian passport holders

WHY GO: The Southeast Asian country is home to a mix of Malay, Chinese, Indian and European culture. The capital city, Kuala Lumpur , has some breathtaking architectural marvels including the 88-storey Petronas Twin Towers. Malacca is known for its laidback air and historic attractions. Penang is Malaysia's most-visited attraction and the island's capital, Georgetown, is a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site.

UAE

E-VISA FOR INDIANS: UAE has the e-visa facility for Indian passport holders. The applicant is supposed to fill the e-visa form and submit it along with a copy of the passport. After the verification is done, the passport and e-visa can be collected from the UAE Consular Section within a maximum period of 5 working days. The cost of an e-visa to UAE for Indian passport holders is Rs 3,000 (AED 150).

UAE lets Indian passport holders visit the country on an e-visa

WHY GO: United Arab Emirates consists of seven Emirates, with its capital in Abu Dhabi. Dubai is home to the Burj Khalifa tower and has numerous sites of attraction. It is known for its extravagant shopping districts and entertainment centres.

VIETNAM

E-VISA FOR INDIANS: Vietnam allows Indian passport holders to obtain an e-visa to enter the country. Once you've filled the e-visa form and paid the money, USD 25 (Rs 1,837), the visa application is processed within 3 working days. The e-visa allows Indian passport holders a stay of 30 days in the country, single entry.

Vietnam allows Indian visitors to travel to the country on an e-visa

WHY GO: The Southeast Asian country is known for its pristine beaches and rivers. Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam and the second largest city is the country, has featured on many Top 10 Cities To Visit lists over the past years. Vietnam's largest city and commercial centre Ho Chi Minh City, earlier called Saigon, has several attractions of historical importance. The Ha Long bay, famous for its otherworldly sceneries, is among Vietnam's most-Instagrammed destinations.

MYANMAR

E-VISA FOR INDIANS: Myanmar, earlier Burma, offers e-visa to Indian passport holders for several entry points including the Yangon International Airport. The e-visa usually takes 3 working days to arrive. After you've filled the form and applied for the visa, you will get an approval letter within 3 working days if your visa application is approved. A printout of the approval letter needs to be shown to the immigration officer at your port of entry in order to enter Myanmar.

The e-visa allows stay in Myanmar for 28 days for tourism purposes and is valid for 90 days from the day it is issued. The tourist e-visa costs Rs 2,800 for an Indian passport holder.

Indian passport holders can enter Myanmar from selected points with an e-visa

WHY GO: Myanmar's former capital city Yangon, earlier Rangoon, is of historic importance to Indians. The towering Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon is breathtaking to say the least. Nyapidaw, officially spelled Nay Pi Taw, is the capital city and the seat of the Myanmar government. Cities like Bagan and Mandalay are scenic and known for the sights they have to offer.

GEORGIA

E-VISA FOR INDIANS: Georgia allows Indian passport holders the option of entering the country on an e-visa. The e-visa for tourism is valid for a period of 120 days from the date it is issued, with visitors having the right to stay in Georgia up to 30 days. The visa fees are USD 20 (Rs 1,837).

Georgia allows e-visa to Indian passport holders for travelling to the country

WHY GO: Georgia sits at the intersection of Europe and Asia, and goes without saying, gives tourists a unique amalgamation of Eurasian culture. The capital city, Tbilisi, is famous for its stunning architecture and cobblestone streets. The country is home to more than 2,000 mineral springs and more than 12,000 UNESCO World Heritage sites.

ALSO SEE: Stories from Travel and Aviation

ALSO SEE: What is travel visa cost to these countries for Indian passport holders?

ALSO SEE: New visa rules Indian passport holders need to know

====== 357 ========

DO YOU KNOW PILOTS HAVE A SECRET BEDROOM TO SLEEP IN ON LONG FLIGHTS?

Have you ever wondered where do pilots and flight attendants sleep during long-haul flights?

After all it's not only the passengers who need to sleep during long-travel flights, pilots and attendants also need their rest.

But one can never catch them taking rest and there crisp uniforms also stay intact. So where do they actually snooze off for a few hours?

The secret has been finally revealed. Flight attendants and pilots get there own designated sleeping areas on long-haul flights built especially for them.

While flight attendants are supposed to sleep on bunk beds in tiny crew rest areas, pilots take rest in separate sleeping compartments, where they can spend up to half of their time on a long flight.

Secret bedrooms where pilots and flight attendants sleep

On most planes the compartments where pilots rest are situated above first class and tucked behind the cockpit, the reason why most of us have never witnessed them.

Pilots access these areas either by climbing hidden stairs or a ladder. These compartments contain two business class seats and flat beds, divided by curtains.

They drown out the sound of the plane. There's also a phone in the room in case the resting pilot is needed.

Some resting areas are also luxurious enough to have a bathroom or a sink and even a TV screen, which is definitely larger than your usual economy class screen.

Secret bedrooms where pilots and flight attendants sleep

The longest flight in the world operated by the Singapore Airlines, which has non-stop service between Newark Liberty International Airport and Changi Airport, has some of the best luxuries.

It has a cabin crew rest compartment with five bunk beds, storage area to hang clothes and storing bedding, satin pillows, room for eight flight attendants to rest, reading lights, entertainment systems and much more.

Some other airlines that are luxurious enough to have such things are American Airlines 777 - which has a flat screen TV, Air New Zealand 777 - which has two reclining seats and beds and Lufthansa Airbus A380 - which has a bathroom which is way cleaner than any economy class bathroom, with lesser waiting time.

But the room's design differs depending on the plane and airline. While some airlines provide luxuries to their pilots, some airlines don't have spacious resting areas.

Resting areas or not, these flight attendants are always on call in case of emergencies.

But now the mystery of where flight attendants sleep has been solved. Although how they last for 14 hours without wrinkling their uniforms is still a mystery to us.

ALSO SEE: Stories from Travel and Aviation

ALSO SEE | Indian passport holders get e-visa to visit these 5 breathtaking countries

====== 358 ========

WHERE TO GO IN NOVEMBER AND HOW TO GET TRAVEL VISA ON AN INDIAN PASSPORT

November is among the best months to travel to some of the world's most beautiful countries. And if you hold an Indian passport, chances are that it is shoulder season in some of these countries.

You can avoid the mad rush of New Year revellers that countries deal with in December; especially in the tropics. And if you're choosing Europe as your go-to destination, the fall crowd too will have dissipated in November.

But where to go in November? Try these four countries to visit in November this year. What's even better is Indian passport holders either get visa on arrival or can travel visa-free to all of these countries; so you can count out one of the major travel hassles: getting a visa.

We tell you why you should choose the following countries for your November travel plans and break down the visa process for you if you hold an Indian passport.

INDONESIA

VISA: Indian passport holders don't need to get a tourist visa if you're staying in Indonesia up to 30 days.

Raja Ampat in Indonesia

WHY GO: Indonesia is home to some of the world's best beaches and stunning islands. The archipelago has Bali, one of the world's most popular tourist destinations. Many pristine islands, from Gili and Lombok to the Komodo island, form the Indonesian archipelago. The capital of Indonesia is Jakarta, a bustling Asian city.

SEASON: The climate in Indonesia is either dry or humid. The months from November to March form the country's rainy season. If you want to enjoy the rains in Indonesia, November is the best time to go. The touristy season gets over by September and in November, the place has comparatively less visitors.

SRI LANKA

VISA: Sri Lanka offers Indian passport holders visa on arrival for a USD 20 (Rs 1,473) fee. On the tourist visa, you can stay in the island nation for up to 30 days.

Sri Lanka offers visa on arrival to Indian passport holders

WHY GO: Breathtaking beaches, miles of unspoilt sand and quaint little towns. Sri Lanka is known for the home away from home vibe that it offers Indian travellers. The tiny country has a special place in the Ramayana too. Ravana abducted Sita to Lanka and you know what happened after that. Apart from its capital city Colombo, towns like Galle, Kandy, Jaffna and Nuwara Eliya should be on your must-visit list in Sri Lanka.

SEASON: In November, the east and the northern regions of the island get rains. The second half of November is a good time to visit Sri Lanka, with the days getting balmier as December approaches.

THAILAND

VISA: For Indian passport holders, Thailand offers visa on arrival for a fee of 2000 baht or Rs 4,428. On a tourist visa, you can stay in the country for 15 days.

Indian passport holders get visa on arrival in Thailand

WHY GO: Apart from Bangkok and Pattaya, the two cities you will find on every travel itinerary to Thailand, the country has some beautiful places. It has some breathtaking beaches in Patong, Koh Samui, Krabi, etc. Hua Hin, Chiang Rai and Chiang Mai are well-known tourist spots that will offer you a break from the touristy Thailand.

SEASON: November in Thailand is cool and dry. The season runs right till March.

BHUTAN

VISA: Bhutan, our neighbour, offers visa-free travel to Indian passport holders.

Indian passport holders don't need a visa to travel to Bhutan

WHY GO: The tiny landlocked country is known for its famous 'happiness index', where prosperity is measured by how happy a citizen is. Bhutan is straight out of a fairy tale. Thimphu, the country's capital, has some stunning Buddhist sites. Tashichho Dzong, a fortified monastery and government palace with gold-leafed roofs to Tiger's Nest in Paro, Bhutan boasts of both architectural marvels and natural wonders.

SEASON: In November, most places in Bhutan enjoy a pleasant weather. The days are sunny and the nights are chilly; and the higher up you go, the colder it is.

ALSO SEE: Stories from Travel and Aviation

ALSO SEE: Indian passport holders get e-visa to visit these 5 breathtaking countries

ALSO SEE: What is travel visa cost to these countries for Indian passport holders?

ALSO SEE: New visa rules Indian passport holders need to know

====== 359 ========

ARTIST TALKS ABOUT THE RESTLESSNESS OF A DALIT MIND

A white brain atop pots in an installation called 'Still Practicing’ is a metaphor for the discrimination against others, the ripening and preservation of attitudes over time. It is a direct representation of the way grains or vegetables are stored in pots in villages. Personal is always political. And to be political in this country demands a certain anger, a kind of existential crisis a Dalit person faces, which can’t be articulated by the "other."

Mumbai-based artist and curator Prabhakar Kamble asks if he were to present a rose as an artist, would it even qualify or be accepted as art under the hegemony of the caste-based perception of aesthetics? Is it not important to then speak for himself as an artist who belongs to the Dalit community?

"The content of my expression is the dismay and the difficulty to balance the seesaw of struggle with establishment, and at the same point struggling for the fundamental things and rights," he says.

In the brave new world of art from the margins, Kamble is a known name for his subversion of the order or aesthetics.

Prabhakar Kamble

A performance called Human in Una in 2016 for Akhand Lokmanch against the Dalit atrocities in Gujarat, in which the artist carries the burden of the Varna system, a whip and black powder and becomes a part of what could be called the theatre of the oppressed where he invites audience to do what they would to his body. All of these and more are part of the formulation of art influenced by Ambedkarite ideology by 31-year-old Prabhakar Kamble, an artist who came from the "ghetto", a segregated colony where only his people lived in a small town in Maharashtra.

At the recently concluded Clark House Initiative’s Outsider, Kamble once again addressed the alienation of the Dalit community, the notions of patriotism and the prevalent discrimination in the society against what he calls the oppressed in his works; where he has placed the coins in mithai boxes called Sweet Box, a direct translation of a personal experience where he was asked for bribes. The installations were part of his first solo at the Jehangir Art Gallery in 2016 titled Agitation of a Restless Mind. And even for his first solo, he had dared to place a chair with its seat and back-rest painted with the world and on the seat he placed a few bullets aimed at a large tambourine, a symbol of protest and people’s voices. Called Suppression, the installation was a direct representation of the ruling class and its power in silencing people’s voices. In Outsider, there is a cast of his own foot, cracked and with no semblance of balance to give it an illusion of being a three-dimensional object.

"The idea of division is the same as illusion; it exist but no one talks about it as reality. The discrimination creates a line and the line promotes social imbalance. Here, the cracked foot symbolises the reality of caste discrimination in our society and with this broken foot no one stands united as a society," he says.

Prabhakar Kamble with his art installations

That’s how he brings in his lived experiences of reading the writings of Ambedkar and being part of the social equality movements where he still makes signboards and posters like in the case of the protests for Rohith Vemula, the Dalit student.

"What else was there but this intensity of experiences," he says. "This is my material. I won’t betray what is my inheritance even if it is this oppression, this claustrophobia of belonging to the lower rung of the caste order."

He was born in a poor family, in a small village and then moved to Ichalkaranji in Maharashtra where his father worked as a powerloom weaver - in what was called the Manchester of Maharashtra with its textile mills. The small 10 by 10 room in the segregated colony called Ambedkar Nagar became a laboratory for his art practice, which addresses the identity of an educated Dalit man in today’s India. From his personal history, his art emerges. His personal history, he says, is also collective history of his people.

The income was meager but he says his parents never questioned his choice of becoming an artist. His art teacher was the one to encourage him to take up arts. After Class 10, his father had taken him to one of the technical institutes but he didn't join and after his Class 12, he joined a diploma course in art teacher education at Lalit Kala Mahavidhyalaya in his town. He also started working as an apprentice to a man who drew signboards and posters. That’s how he charted his own path. When he applied for the position of an art teacher, he was asked for bribe of Rs. 3 Lakhs. He didn't have the money and he decided to go to Kolhapur to work with an artist and learn installation work. The artist sponsored him for art education in a newly built college, which again was a let down. He moved to Mumbai to join LS Raheja School of Arts and lived in the corridors of the MLA hostel for more than a year in a temporary kind of setting because he couldn't afford lodgings. In 2013, he joined the JJ School of Art for his post graduation diploma course and applied for fellowships under a scheme for social justice scholarships through state and central governments and even though he was offered a place in universities abroad, the red tapism came in the way and he could not go. So, for his solo he channelised all the frustrations and addressed the chasm between policy and implantation, corruption and the failure of the welfare programs meant for lower castes. There was also the issue of love, which is says isn’t untouched by untouchability. Twice he ended up with a broken heart because the families wouldn't approve of a Dalit man.

Prabhakar Kamble

"The caste system is so entrenched in the society. It is not overt but when conversations happen, you know you are an outcaste," he says. "My art came from all these rejections."

In 2017, Clark House Initiative in Mumbai, which is an autonomous curatorial space for identity-based expressions, offered him a group and a solo show.

And now, the Outsider put together by Zero Eight 21, an art group from Mysuru, in collaboration with Clark House Initiative.

"The historical context of cities such as Mysuru and my hometown, Kolhapur, has similar practice of social justice since pre-Independence. These cities were pioneers for making the system of social justice that is the reservation and representation system which was a policy put in place in both the cities by its authoritarian ruler. Looking at both these cities, its history marks not just a remembrance but also an initiation of a connection that when carried forward, the same dots of equality among all of us while looking into the idea of collaboration as an outsider, it has more contentment than just the series of exhibition," he says.

And while he is not alone in fighting the hegemony of Savarnas in art world, Kamble is one of the bolder artists who is choosing to define his work in the framework of art that is bold in is politics of representation.

"I still don’t have a house in my country. I explore the idea of suppression. The ruling party changes but the ruling class remains the same," he says. "I have inherited the struggle and I carry the burden. I see women as caste, too. I put them in the category of Ati Shudras. This is my art and I will not betray my struggle."

None of his work was sold at Jehangir Art Gallery. A Marathi newspaper carried a review. A few more came in later. But despite all that, Kamble surges on with his art and activism. The signboards and posters are a testimony to that commitment.

====== 360 ========

PETITIONER RITU DALMIA ON SECTION 377 VERDICT: I WAS TROLLED. TODAY I'M PROUD

Ritu Dalmia is one of the petitioners who requested the Supreme Court to reconsider their 2013 judgement

In a landmark judgment today, the Supreme Court of India partly struck down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, decriminalising gay sex.

The archaic law considered homosexuality as an act of crime, with a penalty of up to 10 years of jail.

With this act of amending the law, the Supreme Court managed to set a precedent for the future by calling Section 377 'irrational and arbitrary'.

The judgment also gave hope to the otherwise marginalised LGBTQ+ community in the country.

While partly striking down Section 377, Chief Justice of India Deepak Mishra said, "I am as I am. So take me as I am. No one can escape their individuality."

The fight to attain this feat was made possible by the continuous struggle of five people, who originally petitioned against the upholding of Section 377 in the 2013 ruling.

The petitioners had demanded the court reconsider the ruling.

Among these five petitioners was celebrity chef and owner of niche restaurant chain Diva, Ritu Dalmia.

Dalmia, who submitted her petition in 2016 along with the four other petitioners and fought for the basic rights of the LGBTQ+ community to live peacefully, told IndiaToday.in in an interview, "It has been two and a half years of sitting on pins and needles, not knowing how things are going to turn out. But when the hearing was going on, I felt that there was a light at the end of the tunnel. And today, that light was turned into a firework."

We had to endure a lot of trolling and negativity, and people telling me not to go ahead with it (petition), but I am so glad that I did it. - Ritu Dalmia

"We had to endure a lot of trolling and negativity, and people telling me not to go ahead with it (petition), but I am so glad that I did it. And today I am very proud that I am one of the petitioners of this historical case," said Ritu.

But the journey to reach this historical point hasn't been easy. In 2009, the Delhi High Court struck down Section 377 and decriminalised gay sex. In 2013, the Delhi High Court's judgment was overturned by the Supreme Court and termed gay sex 'unnatural'. 2013 was a huge setback for activists fighting for the rights of homosexuals and also for the community itself.

"It was shocking and quite unbelievable, because the judgment at that time, with all due respect, was given in a very uneducated manner. The order was based on a narrow thinking, and it affected so many people in the country - nearly 10 per cent of the population. And today, when Justice Indu Malhotra said that 'history owes an apology to the LGBTQ+ community' which has been ostracised, I felt really grateful. We can't undo what has happened, but we can celebrate this," added Ritu.

The landmark judgment today was long overdue, but will it be able to change the mindset of people in this country overnight?

Dalmia said, "Changing the law doesn't change the mindset [of people]. But having the law on your (LGBTQ+ community) side will help change that mindset. If you look back, with any social reform, be it sati or child marriage, the law was never on their side. But when the law changed, the mindset did too. Today, the amount of support there is, the mindset will have to change."

The Supreme Court's judgment on Section 377 today has been welcomed by people all over the country.

ALSO SEE | History owes apology to LGBT community and kin: SC Judge Malhotra

ALSO SEE: Bollywood hails landmark Section 377 verdict

====== 361 ========

THIS MAN LOST HIS WIFE TO ALZHEIMER'S. HIS LOVE STORY IS WINNING THE INTERNET

Love in the age of Tinder and easy left swipes is nothing but a mere game of emotions.

But once in a while, a few people amid the crowd of millions restore our faith in this beautiful emotion.

Such is the love story of Mr Maroo and his wife, who he lost to Alzheimer's.

From marrying a total stranger to becoming her best friend, promising to never leave her side and then fulfilling it, Maroo's journey is a testament to the fact that true love does exist.

A photo of Mr Maroo and his wife together

In an interview to Humans of Bombay, Mr Maroo revealed his beautiful yet heartbreaking journey. He said, "We led a simple life -- she shouldered the responsibility of the house and supported me in everything. I always listened to her. There was a time when our business wasn't doing well and we had to move houses -- she stood by the family like a rock. We visited Banaras every year and I still remember enjoying a hot cup of tea in the cold mountains of Switzerland with her like it was yesterday. It was a marriage without any grudges -- we never held onto anything bitter. She passed those values onto our sons, who she raised effortlessly. She was the pillar of our home."

When his wife was detected with early stage of Alzheimer's he never stopped being patient with her, even when she drifted away from him because of the disease.

He said, "She was 70. My world fell apart, but we had to deal with it. She became weak and even developed a tumour -- after her surgery, she became psychotic. It broke my heart to see her like that. In the last 4 years, she forgot who I was...she was suffering everyday. In that time, I realised that I loved her so much that even death didn't make me afraid. I took her for walks, to temples -- anything to make her feel normal. Maybe that's love -- selfless service. On 31st July, we had our last cup of tea together at 5 in the morning and then she passed away peacefully."

He added, "In these last 12 years, Ive never left her alone for more than 30 minutes, and now Im learning to live without her. But that's what love is, even in death -- it grows stronger; even in death it is selfless -- because even though I cant live without her, Im happy she finally stopped suffering.

Maroo's story may be heartbreaking but it is also filled with love and unconditional support for his wife.

It shows us that when everything fails, ones belief in themselves and their faith in the feelings they have always triumphs.

Read the full post here.

ALSO READ: This woman fought for 7 years to become a pilot. Her story is now winning the internet

ALSO WATCH: You Complete Me! Blind Husband Carries Disabled Wife for 29 Years

====== 362 ========

FACT CHECK: DID RAHUL GANDHI GOOF-UP ON PADDY PRICE DURING CHHATTISGARH RALLY?

Political campaigning is at its peak in Chhattisgarh before the second phase of polling scheduled for November 20. Even social media is equally charged up, leaving no room for any political misadventure. A video clip currently being circulated on WhatsApp and Facebook show Congress president Rahul Gandhi quoting two different Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) of paddy in separate rallies. Netizens had a field day poking fun at the Congress scion.

India Today Fact Check team found that this video was not doctored, but it was sliced in a manner to paint Rahul in poor light. The Congress chief indeed quoted a wrong figure but when pointed out, he immediately corrected himself. The correction was, however, removed from the video.

The message attached with the 45-second-long video clip reads: "Rahul Gandhi apni murkhta ka pradarshan karte hue." (Rahul Gandhi displaying his foolishness)

The video is a compilation of two different clips where Gandhi can be seen addressing two different rallies. In the first 20-second clip, the Congress president can be seen asking the people that "the government promised to give Rs 1,100 MSP for paddy. Are you really getting Rs 1,100?" In the second clip, Rahul can be again seen addressing a rally where he asked people if they are getting Rs 2,100 as MSP for paddy as promised by the government. Rahul almost quoted twice the amount in the other rally.

Users took to Facebook to post the video with comments such as "Rahul Gandhi ji mummy ko bolo badam khilaye. Kal dhaan 1,100 bol rahe the aaj 2,100" (Rahul Gandhi, tell your mother to feed you almonds. Yesterday you said the price of paddy was Rs 1,100, today you say it is Rs 2,100). Some users who shared this video claim to be associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party.

India Today Fact Check team found that the first part of the video going viral is from Gandhi's Mahasamund rally in Chhattisgarh held on Monday.

In the original video, which is nearly half-an-hour long, Gandhi said the MSP promised by the government for paddy was Rs 1,100. But he immediately corrected himself when a party worker prompted him about the mistake. His correction was dropped in the viral video.

We found that the second part of the video is from Rahul's Janjgir Champa rally held the next day. In this video,the Gandhi scion can be seen asking voters if they have received Rs 2,100 MSP as promised by the BJP-led government.

According to a report by Business Standard, the Chhattisgarh government had announced a bonus of Rs 300 in addition to the paddy MSP of Rs 1,750 per quintal. With a bonus, farmers in Chhattisgarh were supposed to get Rs 2,050 for a quintal.

Gandhi did fumble on the figure of the MSP but he quickly corrected it. However, BJP supporters didn't miss the opportunity to reap political benefit from his mistake.

READ| Fact Check: No, Rahul Gandhi didn’t say he will make Sun rise from the West

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim Social media users claim that Rahul Gandhi quoted two entirely different rates of paddy MSP in the same state. Conclusion Rahul Gandhi did fumble on the figure of MSP but corrected it soon after. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim Social media users claim that Rahul Gandhi quoted two entirely different rates of paddy MSP in the same state. Conclusion Rahul Gandhi did fumble on the figure of MSP but corrected it soon after. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 363 ========

FACT CHECK: THIS IS HOW SAMBIT PATRA GAVE SPIN TO KAMAL NATH’S STATEMENT

The high-voltage campaign season in Madhya Pradesh has seen political leaders pushing the envelope to get more votes, even if that means giving communal spin to the statement of political rivals.

On Wednesday (November 14), a video of state Congress president Kamal Nath addressing Muslim supporters went viral on social media. Armed with this video clip, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra claimed that it shows the veteran Congress leader telling Muslim supporters that "the party will deal with Hindus once the elections are over".

Patra tweeted a 45-second-long video with caption, "Abhi temporary janau pahen rakha hain. Nipat lenge inse baad mein."

The tweet further read, "The 'fancy dress Hindus' are exposed yet again. Kamalnath ji promises the Muslim clerics that the Congress will surely deal with the Hindus after the election. For now the Muslims should stand with the Congress!"

Patra reiterated his charges at a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday.

The India Today Fact Check found that Patra gave a communal spin to Kamal Nath's statement, misquoting him and attributing words, which he did not use.

temporary ... ..



The fancy dress Hindus are exposed yet again ..Kamalnath ji promises the Muslim clerics that the Congress will surely deal with the Hindus after the election ..for now the Muslims should stand with the Congress! pic.twitter.com/sZJmW15h7d Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj) November 14, 2018





On Wednesday, several Twitter users also pointed out to Patra saying his claims do not match with the contents in the video.

He clearly says BJP se nipat lenge. Why are you misleading? https://t.co/rCxZBfIwmQ vijaita singh (@vijaita) November 14, 2018





Patra called a press conference on the same day, reiterated his allegations and claimed that Kamal Nath was talking about dealing with Hindus and RSS after elections.

The BJP spokesperson said, "In this video what Mr Kamal Nath says in a closed room while addressing the respected Muslim clerics, that don't you worry; we are going to finish off the other community - the RSS, meaning probably the Hindus also after the election we will take care of them. We will see to it ki hum inko nipta dete hai. You don't fall into any kind of trap."

Patra's statements at the press conference were also retweeted by the official handle of the BJP.





However, in the same conference later on, Sambit Patra tried to modify his statement and said "The way Kamal Nath is talking about finishing Hindus and the RSS after the polls is condemnable." (Sangh aur Hinduon ko niptane ki baat jis prakaar se kamal nath ji ne ki hai yeh nindneeye hai, bhatsaneeye hai).

According to our correspondent in Bhopal, this video clip of Kamal Nath is months' old, though we could not confirm its provenance. The video clip in circulation also has a green top band with Hindi translation.

In the video, Nath can be seen sitting in a room with a group of Muslims. Looking carefully, we found that he did not talk about "dealing with Hindus" at any point.

He can be heard saying, "Aaj inke RSS voter kya keh rahe hain? RSS ke jo karyakarta hai voh kya keh raha hai, mujhe jankari hai, RSS ke jo log inhone failaye hue hai, main toh Chhindwara ki baat karun, mujhe toh log aa ke bata dete hai. Unke RSS kyunki Nagpur se juda hua hai vahan to unke liye subah aao, raat ko chale jao aur bada aasan hai, voh unka ek hi slogan hai, agar Hindu ko vote deni hai toh Hindu sher Modi ko vote do agar Musalman ko vote deni hai Congress ko vote do. Keval do line, aur koi path padhane nahi jaate yeh inki rajneeti hai aur is main ab sabko bada satark rehna padega aapko uljhane ki koshish karenge, hum nipat lenge inse baad main, per matdan ke din tak aap ko sab kuch sehna padhega."

What Nath is saying in Hindi broadly translates to; "People come and tell him about Chhindwara. Since the RSS is based in Nagpur, it is very easy for them. They come in the morning and leave by the night; they just have one slogan: if you want to vote for a Hindu then do it for a lion called Modi and if you want to vote for a Muslim then give it to Congress. They have just two lines, they have nothing else to teach. This is their strategy, we need to be careful about it. They will try to confuse and mislead you. We will deal with them later. But till the time polls are over, you will have to take all this in your stride."

It is important to note that Kamal Nath is only saying he will deal with them later without explicitly saying whom he is referring to. However, it is clear from the context that he is talking about strategy of the BJP, RSS and dealing with them.

Patra has given spin to the word "dealing with them" and has drawn his own inference that Kamal Nath meant Hindus.

Patra in his press conference used Hindi words "nipta dena" for Nath's claim, which later the BJP also tweeted.





In fact, the Kamal Nath can be clearly heard using the Hindi word "nipat" and not "nipta" in the video. Though both these words phonetically are similar, they have hugely different connotations in Hindi language. "Nipat lena" means "to deal with" while "nipta dena" is generally used to indicate "to dispose off or finish off".

Nath also held a press conference on Wednesday.

He said and clarified, "It is a three-month-old video in which I have said that our social harmony should remain intact till the date of polling because the BJP through RSS will try to confuse and instigate voters. I am repeating this again. I was warning people sitting there not to be misled. Yes, I said we will deal with them. I meant those who would instigate and divide the people, we will deal with them. The RSS does not represent all the Hindus."

This is not for the first time the BJP leader had attempted to do this.

A few days ago, Patra in a press conference also claimed that in its 'Vachan Patra', the Congress had mentioned that it would ban the RSS. The Congress had, in fact, said they would not allow the RSS shakhas in government buildings. Earlier, this month, another leaked video of Kamal Nath went viral in which he could be seen talking about giving tickets even to the tainted candidates if they have win-ability. Then congress had claimed it was a doctored video but could not present any evidence to support their claim.

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra claims that Congress leaders Kamal Nata told Muslim supporters that they will " deal with the Hindus after elections are over". Conclusion Kamal Nath is talking about dealing with BJP and RSS after the elections and is not referring Hindus. He did not use the word 'Hindus' anywhere in the video. Patra has given spin to the word "dealing with them" . JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra claims that Congress leaders Kamal Nata told Muslim supporters that they will " deal with the Hindus after elections are over". Conclusion Kamal Nath is talking about dealing with BJP and RSS after the elections and is not referring Hindus. He did not use the word 'Hindus' anywhere in the video. Patra has given spin to the word "dealing with them" . JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 364 ========

FACT CHECK: NO, THESE CHILDREN WERE NOT KILLED FOR ORGAN HARVESTING

The photograph is from a place called Barwani in Madhya Pradesh,where a father allegedly killed his five sons by pushing them into a pond.

A disturbing picture has been floating on WhatsApp which shows the bodies of five children in a pond, with the claim that they were killed allegedly for the purpose of organ trading.

Attached with the picture is an audio clip (listen here) which warns people in a dramatic voice, claiming that these children were kidnapped from different places and dumped after their organs were removed.

It also says that the bodies were recovered by the Tamil Nadu Police from a container. The audio ends with an appeal to share the clip to a maximum number of users so that other children remain safe. The message was sent to us by one of our readers, Dr Rituparna.



In the audio clip, a man can be heard saying: "Tamil Nadu Police ko ek container se bacchon ki lashen mili. In bacchon ke jism ke andar ka hissa nikala gaya hai jaise kidney, lever . Tamil Nadu Police ne bataya in sare bacchon ko alag alag desho se kidnap karke laaya gaya hai . Note apne ghar ke bacchon ko sambhalo, unka khayal rakho, apne saare group me ye message send karo. Iss photo ko itna felao taki k***a pakda jana chaiye, agar jisne yeh nahi failaya vo apni maa ka sapoot nahi. Apne phone me chahe kitne bhi group ho 1,2,3,4 ya 25 ye saare group me bhejo, haramkhor pakda jaana chaiye."



The India Today Fact Check team found that the claim is misleading. The claim being made in the audio clip has nothing to do with the image. The photograph is from a place called Barwani in Madhya Pradesh,where a father allegedly killed his five sons by pushing them into a pond.

In the audio, the man is talking about "a container" in which the bodies of children were found. But just by looking at the image, one can say that there is no container in the image, rather it's a small pond.

When we reverse searched the image, we found several news articles related to the image. According to these articles, in October this year, Bhatar Singh - a resident of Chikhli village of Madhya Pradesh's Barwani district - confessed that he killed all his five sons by pushing them into the pond.

According to the news reports in several vernacular dailies, Singh was arrested soon after the crime. He told the police that he had two wives and five children. There used to be frequent fights in the familyand as a result, both his wives left the house. In a fit of rage, Singh killed all the five children. We contacted our local correspondent who also confirmed the sequence of events.

We could not find any such crime reported from Tamil Nadu as being claimed in the viral message. However, we discovered that this is not the first time when such an audio clip was used to mislead people. According to a report in website 99mag.com, an audio clip with a similar message but a different image was being circulated for rumour-mongering. The image was misleading as it was from Syria where 400 children were gassed to death in Ghouta chemical attack.

Read | Fact Check: No, Rahul Gandhi didn’t say he will make Sun rise from the West

====== 365 ========

FACT CHECK: NO, RAHUL GANDHI DIDN’T SAY HE WILL MAKE SUN RISE FROM THE WEST

As campaigning for the first phase of Chhattisgarh election comes to a close on Saturday, a video is being shared on social media mocking Congress president Rahul Gandhi.

In the six-second video clip Rahul can be heard saying "Mujhe pradhan mantri bana do toh suraj uss side se uthta hai usko iss side se utha dunga"(Make me the prime minister then I will change the direction of sunrise).

The video has been shared by Facebook pages Indian Eye and Phir Ek Baar Modi Sarkar among others.

The video clip had already been shared more than 2,200 times at the time of writing this report. The two pages which have shared this video have more than 47 lakh followers in total.

Is it possible for the Congress scion to say something so bizarre? India Today Fact Check Team found that the video was forked out from a longer speech to convey something totally out of context.

The viral video clip is from Gandhi's election rally held in Chhattisgarh's Dongargarh on November 9, 2018. In the full video uploaded by the Congress party on their official Facebook page, Rahul Gandhi can be heard saying at 8:27 "Modi ji kehte hai na ki main chand ko idhar se udhar kar dunga, mujhe pradhan mantri bana do toh jo suraj uss side se uthta hai usko iss side se utha dunga, aisi baatein main nahi karunga" (Modi says that I will change the directions of sun and the moon. I[Rahul] will not make such promises)

Rahul was, therefore, taking a dig at PM Modi rather than making the claim on his own.

This is not the first time that this type of mischievously edited video has been shared to mock the Congress president.

In June this year, it was claimed on social media that Rahul was calling himself a fool whereas India Today found that he was in fact referring to a casual conversation with an NDA MP on the corridors of the Lok Sabha. According to Rahul, the MP told him that, "I must be the biggest fool in the country. Because I brought Modi, made him the PM, but he is so thankless that he doesn't give me a chance to speak in Lok Sabha."

Similarly in another video which went viral in November 2017, Rahul can be heard promising machines that can covert potatoes to gold. Whereas in the complete video Rahul was sarcastically quoting PM Modi. The edited video was shared by BJP leader Sambit Patra and many others on social media. ABP News had debunked this false claim.

READ| Fact Check: Did Rahul Gandhi go blank on a question about Kailash Mansarovar?

====== 366 ========

FACT CHECK: FORMER KARNATAKA CM SIDDARAMAIAH DIDN'T DO THIS. IT'S HIS LOOKALIKE!

Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah insults Lord Ram in public by slapping his picture with slippers to appease minorities? That's pretty outrageous, and the furious reaction to it is on expected lines. But, this claim is far from truth.

Legions of Facebook users are raging against Congress' Siddaramaiah - 4,000 at last count - for 'beating' pictures of Lord Ram during a rally. The social media post with the incriminating picture carries a message in Hindi that translates to: "To demean Hindus, Congress CM Siddaramaiah took out a rally beating Lord Ram's pictures with slippers. This is just to appease Christians and Muslims. Share this to reveal the real face of the Congress party."

This post has been shared by a Facebook user called Devender Chauhan who claims to be working with the Bharatiya Janata Party. This photo was sent out in a group titled 'Namo Fan' which has half a million followers.

The photo has also been shared by a Facebook user named Rashmi Bipin Nirala in a group called 'BJP Social Media', where it has been shared more than 1,500 times.

The picture in question shows policemen standing casually amid a crowd, with 'Siddaramaiah' in the centre of this motley group, some of who are holding up footwear to calendar-type images of Lord Ram.

It is unlikely for the former CM to be accompanied by such a bunch of people. Some of the billboards visible in the picture are in Tamil, indicating that it must have been clicked in a town or city somewhere in Tamil Nadu.

Users are writing hate messages against the senior Congress leader.

The India Today Fact Check team found this claim to be false. Neither the man in the picture is Siddaramaiah, nor is it a Congress rally. It is a picture from the protest march of a fringe Periyarist group.

When we reverse searched the image, we found an article with headline "Lord Ram insulted with slippers in Tamil Nadu by Periyar groups".

The article mentions that members of the fringe Periyarist group desecrated pictures of Lord Ram by slapping them with slippers in Mayiladuthurai district of Tamil Nadu. This was done in response to the breaking of a Periyar statue in Pudukkottai. Twitter user Ramesh Sethu posted this video on March 21, 2018.

This is how DK guys insult our god and incite violence by hurting religious sentiments.



Time @CMOTamilNadu acts and put these guys behind bars on Goondas act pic.twitter.com/9CuCHInqoi Ramesh Sethu (@rameshsethu) March 21, 2018

Earlier, photos from the same rally were shared with another misleading claim "Keralites Beating Lord Ram pictures with slippers". This claim was debunked by Hoaxorfact.com two months ago.

During the recent Karnataka Assembly polls, a viral video claimed that the Karnataka chief minister was dancing to a Kannada song. India Today debunked this claim and revealed that the dancer was a Siddaramaiah lookalike. The latest social media stunt has also employed a lookalike to target the real Siddaramaiah.

====== 367 ========

FACT CHECK: WHO FUNDED THE TALLEST STATUE OF THE WORLD?

The post claiming that PSUs spent Rs 2,525 crore for the construction of the Statue of Unity.

Days after its inauguration, the much-hyped Statue of Unity has been engulfed in controversy over its funding. A viral post claims that Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) were made to shell out nearly Rs 2,500 crore as their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund for the construction of the statue. The post was brought to the notice of the India Today Fact Check team by a reader, Hilda Abraham.

Social media is indeed abuzz with claims that PSUs spent over Rs 2,525 crore for the construction of the statue. India Today Fact Check team found that the PSUs have contributed funds for the statue but the claims regarding the amount are highly exaggerated. The biggest contribution came from the Gujarat government followed by the Centre.

One David D'Costa posted a message on Facebook claiming that most of the funding for the project was made by public sector oil companies. One of the sentences in the message reads: "When India is literally crying for reduction in Oil prices...This is how our Oil sector PSUs are made to splurge their money!"

The message, being widely circulated on social media, quotes Loksatta editor Girish Kuber for figures regarding PSUs footing the bill of the Sardar Patel statue. Kuber wrote an article in Marathi daily, Loksatta, on November 3 quoting the figures.

Some other posts on social media even claim that a loan of Rs 3,600 crore was taken from China to make the statue.

To find out the details of the contribution made by the PSUs, India Today Fact Check team went through the annual reports of various PSUs and the budget papers.

The Sardar Patel statue project was first announced on October 7, 2010, by the then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi. But it wasn't until 2013, when a Special Purpose Vehicle, the Sardar Vallabhai Patel Rashtriya Ekta Trust was formed that it gathered pace.

After Modi became the prime minister in 2014, the project gathered momentum. The central government in its 2014-15 Budget allocated a sum of Rs 200 crore to the Gujarat government for this purpose.

Since then, the Gujarat government has been making a provision for funds for the statue in the state budget.

Following are the figures showing the state’s contribution for the project. YEAR BUDGETARY PROVISION 2018-19 Rs 899 crore 2016-17 Rs 1066 crore* 2015-16 Rs 915 crore 2013-14 Rs 100 crore

*Provision included funds for establishing Tribal Research & Training Institute

In the meantime, several PSUs also started contributing funds for the statue which did not go down well with the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG). The CAG in its Compliance Audit on General Purpose Financial Reports 2018 of Central Public Sector Enterprises of Union Government rapped the PSU firms for spending CSR funds on the construction of the statue. The CAG report stated that a total of Rs 146.83 crore was spent by five PSU firms namely ONGC, IOCL, BPCL, HPCL and OIL.

Here's the individual amount donated by the public sector oil companies over the years as per the CAG report. PUBLIC SECTOR UNDERTAKING AMOUNT GIVEN UNDER CSR Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Rs 50 crore Indian Oil Corporation Limited Rs 21.83 crore Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited Rs 25 crore Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited Rs 25 crore Oil India Limited Rs 25 crore

Since, the claims made on the basis of Loksatta article do not mention any time frame for the CSR funding for the project, it was difficult to verify the years they were referring to. However, we decided to look into the annual reports of these PSUs since 2015, the year the construction work for the statue gained momentum.

According to the claims, the Indian Oil Corp gave Rs 900 crore for the statue. However, the annual reports of IOCL say it actually gave Rs 21.83 crore in the year 2016-17 and a cumulative expenditure of Rs 71.34 crore is also mentioned in the 2017-18 annual report.

For ONGC, the claim made was for Rs 500 crore. But according to the annual report, it has spent only Rs 50 crore from its CSR fund for the project.

In the viral post, it is claimed that all the three companies -- BPCL, OIC and GAIL -- have spent Rs 250 crore each for the statue. India Today found that BPCL spent Rs 45 crore, OIC Rs 25 crore and GAIL Rs 25 crore. Power Grid has contributed Rs 12.5 crore against a claim of Rs 125 crore made in the post.

The Loksatta article mentioned that the HPCL has given Rs 250 crore but we found that as per annual report of 2016-17, it gave Rs 25 crore.

The claims stated that Gujarat Minerals Corporation Limited (GMCL) had given Rs 100 crore for the project whereas India Today found from the annual report that the company gave only Rs 11 crore.

The post claims that the two companies, Petronet and Balmer Lawrie, have given Rs 50 crore each for the statue project, but we found that Petronet gave Rs 5 crore while Balmer Lawrie gave money twice -- Rs 62 lakh in 2017-18 and Rs 38 lakh in 2016-17.

We couldn't find any mention of funds for the statue in the financial statements of Engineers India Limited.

India Today contacted Sandeep Kumar, joint managing director at the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL), for further clarification on the project funding. The SSNNL has been tasked with overseeing the implementation of the Statue of Unity project. According to Kumar, the project cost was Rs 2,362 crore, and an additional Rs 650 crore has been kept for the maintenance of the project for the next 15 years. The project cost includes setting up of a memorial, a 50-room hotel, and infrastructure surrounding the area.

Kumar claimed that "the central government had given Rs 300 crore for the project while Rs 550 crore was given by the central and state PSUs, private companies and individuals as donations".

"Rest of the expenditure has been borne by the Gujarat government," he added.

India Today Fact Check team found that the claims, which said the PSUs bore the cost of Sardar Patel statue project, are partially true. The PSUs certainly did not spend to the tune Rs 2,500 crore as being claimed. Also, the claims about funds coming from China as loan are far from true.

READ| Modi unveils Statue of Unity, pays Sardar Patel a tall tribute

Update: One of our esteemed readers pointed out rightly that IOCL had also given money for the statue second time, in the year 2017-18. We have now included that in our story and updated it. The reader has also mentioned that some of "these companies might have also spent some amounts in 2018-19" but since the annual reports for the year 2018-19 are still not available, India Today could not take that into account in the current story.

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK



Claim Indian Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) were made to shell out nearly Rs 2,500 crore as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund for the construction of Sardar Patel statue. Loan of Rs 3600 crore was taken to fund the statue. Conclusion PSUs did bear the cost of Sardar Patel statue project, but did not spend to the tune Rs 2,500 crore as being claimed. Also, the claims about funds coming from China as loan are far from true. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

INDIA TODAY FACT CHECK Claim Indian Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) were made to shell out nearly Rs 2,500 crore as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund for the construction of Sardar Patel statue. Loan of Rs 3600 crore was taken to fund the statue. Conclusion PSUs did bear the cost of Sardar Patel statue project, but did not spend to the tune Rs 2,500 crore as being claimed. Also, the claims about funds coming from China as loan are far from true. JHOOTH BOLE KAUVA KAATE Goes the old saying. Here, the number of crows determines the intensity of the lie. 1 Crow: Half True

2 Crows: Mostly lies

3 Crows: Hadh kar di aapne

====== 368 ========

FACT CHECK: HORRIFIC VIDEO OF WOMAN BURNING HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH RSS

The video has gone viral on social media and has been shared thousands of times on Facebook.

A graphic video, in which a woman atop a water tank accidentally catches fire while trying to enact a self-immolation during a protest, is being widely shared on the social media after giving it a communal colour and falsely linking it to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).

The 1-minute-12-second long video is visually disturbing as it shows a woman engulfed in flames, running down the stairs of the water tank, even as some people try to douse the fire and save her. A dramatic voice-over with sound effects of wind blowing has been overlaid on the video, in which a man claims in Urdu that "during an RSS function, some women tried to burn a burkha to protest. The ire of Ilahi struck her and the women caught fire. But no media is showing it. You are requested to share it as much as possible."

A text message along with the video says "Naqab jalane wali RSS ki aurton per kahar e ilahi".

The video has gone viral on the social media and has been shared more than 25,000 times on several Facebook pages.

A Facebook user by the name Zain Khan posted this video on October 29, and that alone received about 20,000 shares and over 3 lakh views. Zain Khan's page is filled with passionate religious speeches, including a post praising the radical leader Zakir Naik.

The video was also shared by Facebook page 'Yaha Sab Kuch Milta Hai' and 'The Owesi Fan Club', which are getting thousands of hits.

The India Today Fact Check team found that the video was misleading and has nothing to do with the RSS. It is a video of some teachers protesting in Punjab's Kapurthala to press for their demands.

The incident is over eight years old and occurred on February 8, 2010. The teacher, Kiranjeet Kaur, in the video was admitted to the hospital with severe burns and later succumbed to her injuries.

Scanning through the comments of Facebook users below the video, we came across a user who has correctly pointed out that this is a not what it is made out to be. On the page 'The Owesi Fan Club', a user Sameer Sandhu made it clear that it is a video of a teachers' protest from Punjab by citing a report on NDTV of the incident.

We looked up the incident of Punjab teachers' protest and came across more news reports from 2010 of the same on The Indian Express and Zee News.

According to the report on NDTV, the EGS teachers, who teach students up to Class 8 under a scheme of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) in rural areas of Punjab, were seeking admission to the elementary teachers training (ETT) course for 370 EGS teachers and also regularisation of their services.



As hundreds of other teachers gathered below the water tank to join the protest, Kiranjeet Kaur poured petrol on herself and set herself on fire. This led to complete chaos and even police officials present there could do little to save the teacher.

Hence, it can be said that the video of an unfortunate incident has been given a communal angle to spread hatred and gather hits on social media.

READ | Fact Check: AAP goofs up Delhi's Signature Bridge with photo of Netherlands' Erasmus Bridge

ALSO READ | Fact Check: DD staffer from viral Naxal attack video is not dead

ALSO WATCH | DD staffer records emotional video as Naxals attack him

====== 369 ========

FACT CHECK: AAP GOOFS UP DELHI'S SIGNATURE BRIDGE WITH PHOTO OF NETHERLANDS' ERASMUS BRIDGE

The illumined Erasmus Bridge has been used in the tweet posted by Aam Aadmi Party.

The much-awaited Signature Bridge is finally ready for Delhi. But, a day before its inauguration, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party has courted a controversy by tweeting three photos that it claimed are of the bridge.

India Today TV's Fact Check Team found that one of the photos is not of the Signature Bridge in Delhi but is rather of the Erasmus Bridge of Rotterdam in the Netherlands.

On Saturday night, the official twitter handle of the Aam Aadmi Party, posted a tweet saying, "Delhi! Here is your pride The Signature Bridge"

"Delhi !

Here is your pride ..The Signature Bridge . Ready to welcome you tomorrow for Inauguration Ceremony.. 4PM onwards.. Sunday, 4th Nov."- @msisodia pic.twitter.com/agEuZhrjib AAP (@AamAadmiParty) November 3, 2018

AAP also posted three pictures purportedly of the Signature Bridge, connecting the Outer Ring Road with the Wazirabad Road on the western flank of the Yamuna river.

Soon after the post, people of Twitter started taking digs at the AAP and said one of the pictures is not of the Signature Bridge.

Delhi BJP spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga replied on AAP's tweet by giving the link of the video of the Erasmus Bridge.

While searching Erasmus Bridge on the internet, the India Today Fact Check team found a nearly two-minute long video named, "Illumination of the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam" on YouTube. At 0.27 seconds, the exact frame of the illumined Erasmus Bridge has been used in the tweet posted by AAP. The skyline and the skyscrapers at the background seen in the picture match with the video.

Erasmus Bridge is an engineering marvel which is considered to be one of the tallest bridges of Netherlands. The 139-metre high bridge is an important landmark of Rotterdam. The bridge was named after Desiderius Erasmus, a prominent Christian renaissance humanist, also known as Erasmus of Rotterdam.

The 'Signature Bridge' of Delhi is also an asymmetrical bridge. According to news reports, this 675-metre long bridge was first conceptualised in 2004. The bridge will be thrown open to public on November 5, Monday.

====== 370 ========

THE RBI DEMONETISATION TWEET THAT ISN'T

A screenshot of a purported tweet by Hindi daily Amar Ujala attributing a national loss of Rs 9 lakh crore as a result of demonetisation has gone viral.

Amid continuing tension between the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Modi government, a screenshot of a purported tweet by Hindi daily Amar Ujala attributing a national loss of Rs 9 lakh crore as a result of demonetisation has gone viral. This RBI indictment of the government's 2016 move to demonetise high-value notes is in a screenshot of a tweet featuring in a Facebook post from an account called 'With INC'.

The screenshot of the tweet, which looks like it is from the official Twitter account of Amar Ujala Ujala (@AmarUjalaNews ), shows a collage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RBI Governor Urjit Patel with the comment "Bhakti se Bahar Aaye RBI Governor Modi ke Chuddaye Paseene". A message attached with the post reads: "Demonetization Scam Exposed by RBI Governor!!!"

The post has already been shared more than 3,000 times at the time of writing this story, and the page has over 8 lakh followers.

The India Today Fact Check team has, however, found that the screenshot of the tweet is fake and that the RBI Governor has never made such statement on demonetisation.

On comparing the tweet shown in the post with tweets from the official handle of Amar Ujala, we found that the formats of the two are different. Tweets from the verified handle of Amar Ujala differ in the placement of text and space from that in the screenshot in question.

Then again, we couldn't find any such statement from Patel where he has talked about the loss due to demonetisation. In its annual report released in August 2018, the RBI disclosed that 99.3 per cent of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes have come back to the banks since demonetisation; a fact reported by most news organisations. It may be remembered that the opposition Congress had demanded an apology from PM Modi after this disclosure from the RBI.

Finally, we reached out to the News Editor of Amar Ujala, Anil Pandey, who confirmed that the viral tweet is fake and that they have not shared such a tweet ever.

READ | Fact Check: DD staffer from viral Naxal attack video is not dead



READ | Fact Check: False claims take off after Indonesian air crash

====== 371 ========

WORLD CHAMPION LEWIS HAMILTON FINISHES F1 SEASON WITH WIN IN ABU DHABI GP

World champion Lewis Hamilton coasted to victory from pole position at the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday.

Having already secured a fifth F1 title, the British Mercedes driver beat Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel at the Yas Marina circuit to secure his 11th win of the season and 73rd of his career.

It was a symbolic finish to a season where, again, he showed his superiority under pressure to beat Vettel into second place overall for the second straight year.

"I am so happy right now," said Hamilton after Hollywood actor Will Smith brought down the chequered flag at the floodlit Yas Marina circuit on Sunday.

The Brit, who has won 51 of the 100 races in the V6 turbo hybrid era, became the first driver to score more than 400 points in a season with a final tally of 408.

His victory also left him 18 wins away from Michael Schumacher's all-time record.

DRIVER STANDINGS



As the chequered flag falls, the final points of 2018 are in... @LewisHamilton becomes the first driver to break the 400-point barrier



Kimi *just* holds on to P3, with Verstappen and Bottas right behind #AbuDhabiGP #F1 pic.twitter.com/pKRfEC9Usn Formula 1 (@F1) November 25, 2018

Red Bull driver Max Verstappen finished third ahead of teammate Daniel Ricciardo for a fifth straight podium.

The race was held up after a spectacular crash on Lap 1 involving Nico Hulkenberg, who was sent tumbling into the barriers and eventually settled upside down by French driver Romain Grosjean. The Renault driver was unharmed and eventually climbed out.

Veteran Spanish driver Fernando Alonso placed 11th with McLaren in his last F1 race with the team.

With both championships already won, Hamilton taking his in Mexico with two races to spare and Mercedes sealing their fifth successive constructors' and drivers' double in Brazil, Sunday's focus was on the race and those moving on -- particularly Alonso.

We knew they were coming



But we didn't know it would be these three #AbuDhabiGP #F1 pic.twitter.com/PAZF1QEsfA Formula 1 (@F1) November 25, 2018

Hamilton, Vettel and the Spaniard -- three great champions -- spun their cars in a cloud of smoke at the end of their slowing down lap, before stepping out for hugs and words of mutual respect.

(With inputs from AP and Reuters)

====== 372 ========

PRO KABADDI LEAGUE: HARYANA BEAT DELHI, PATNA OUTSCORE BENGALURU

Haryana Steelers managed only their fifth win of the season (PKL Photo)

Haryana Steelers put up an accomplished team effort to register a much-needed 34-27 win over Dabang Delhi in a Vivo Pro Kabaddi League in Pune on Sunday.

Vikas Kandola was the star performer as he scored 10 points and was ably supported by Naveen, who chipped in with five points.

Dabang Delhi's Naveen Kumar scored 10 raid points but his effort went in vain as he didn't get enough support from his defence. It was a morale boosting win for Haryana Steelers as they climbed up the table in Zone A.

Haryana Steelers got off to a quick start to lead 2-0 after two minutes but Naveen Kumar levelled the match for Dabang Delhi with a two-point raid.

It was a quiet first 10 minutes as both the sides seemed to be measuring each other. Haryana Steelers were trailing 5-7 and their star raider Monu Goyat was struggling to put points on the board.

Vikas Kandola got the bulk of raid points for Haryana Steelers in the first half. After 15 minutes both the teams were locked in a tight battle with scores level at 9-9. Monu Goyat opened his account in the 17th minute to give Haryana Steelers 12-9 lead.

At the end of the first half, Haryana Steelers led 13-10 with Dabang Delhi still very much in the game. Vikas Kandola made a two-point raid at the start of the second half as Haryana extended their lead to 17-10.

Haryana Steelers inflicted the first all out of the match in the 25th minute to lead 23-15. Naveen Kumar had an excellent raiding game for Dabang Delhi as he consistently put points on the board.

After 30 minutes, Haryana Steelers were in the driving seat as they led 27-18. Haryana Steelers kept their nerve and composure in the last five minutes and were worthy winners in the end.

Patna Pirates beat Bengaluru Bulls

Rohit Kumar's incredible 13-point performance wasn't enough to overturn Patna Pirates' 12-point lead at the half, as the reigning champions held on in the closing stages to secure a 35-32 win over Bengaluru Bulls.

This victory is Patna Pirates' fifth on the trot and leaves them just four points off the top of the standings in Zone B.

(With inputs from Agencies)

====== 373 ========

DAVIS CUP: MARIN CILIC SEALS VICTORY FOR CROATIA VS FRANCE

Croatia won the Davis Cup after Marin Cilic helped them to a decisive 3-1 lead over France (Reuters Photo)

Marin Cilic clinched Croatia's second Davis Cup title by crushing France's Lucas Pouille 7-6(3) 6-3 6-3 to give his side a decisive 3-1 lead in an historic final at Lille's Stade Pierre Mauroy on Sunday.

The powerful world number seven was relentless as he snuffed out any hope of a famous French fightback -- giving Pouille little chance of extending the last final in the 118-year-old competition's current guise into a deciding fifth rubber.

Pouille, 24, did not have a single break point and despite pushing Cilic hard in the first set, he lost the last four points of the tiebreak and never threatened a comeback.

Cilic wasted four set points when Pouille battled back from 0-40 down at 2-5 in the second set but with his own serve rock-solid he calmly moved into a two-set lead.

The mainly French 22,000 crowd kept roaring their support for Pouille, but it was the Croatia contingent, decked out in their distinctive red and white, who would soon be celebrating.

Cilic broke for a 3-2 lead in the third set and then closed in for the kill when Pouille served at 3-5.

The Frenchman saved two match points from 0-40 but Cilic would not be denied and finished it off with a delightful lob.

Immediately the 30-year-old former US Open champion was swamped by a swarm of his team mates as Croatia could begin the party after emulating their triumph of 2005.

Croatia's sports-mad President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic was among the fans at courtside to savour a landmark title which offered a measure of consolation after France beat Croatia in this year's soccer World Cup final.

"It's not every day that you become a world champion," Cilic, draped in a Croatian flag, said on court.

"For us it's a dream come true, for this nation. You can see the fans are so passionate and they are here enjoying themselves. In Croatia it's going to be incredible too."

SPECIAL PLACE

Whatever happens in the future Croatia's win will have a special place in the record books as this was the last 'one on one' final before the competition undergoes a major revamp.

The 16-team World Group, established in 1981, will be scrapped next year in favour of an 18-nation World Cup-style finals week that will take place in Madrid.

Hosts and defending champions France had begun the day holding out hope of becoming the first team to overturn a 2-0 deficit in the final since Australia beat the U.S. in 1939.

But there was to be no fairytale ending for French captain Yannick Noah in his last match in charge of Les Bleus.

Noah had surprisingly left Pouille, the highest-ranked player in his team, out of Friday's opening singles matches and the gamble backfired as Jeremy Chardy was hammered by Borna Coric and Cilic beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.

After Nicolas Mahut and Pierre-Hugues Herbert won Saturday's doubles to keep the tie alive, Noah restored Pouille in a bid to take down Croatian talisman Cilic.

He hung on grimly in the first set, saving a break point at 4-4 with a beautiful dropshot. Cilic twice held serve to stay in the opener and then struck in the tiebreak.

He opened a 5-3 lead then latched onto a Pouille serve to crush a forehand winner before converting his first set point with a dropshot of his own.

An animated Noah was up and down out of his seat, firing up his man and the crowd. In contrast his opposite number Zeljko Krajan sat back and let Cilic go calmly about his business.

Cilic's weight of shot allowed him to break decisively in the fifth game of the second set.

He squandered a two-set lead in the fourth rubber of the final against Argentina's Juan Martin del Potro in 2016 -- a defeat that cost Croatia the title.

Yet he was never going to let Pouille off the hook and when he broke the Frenchman's serve at 2-2 in the third, any lingering belief Pouille had retained quickly ebbed away.

====== 374 ========

THINGS BECOME PRETTY EASY WHEN ROHIT, DHAWAN DO THE JOB FOR US: VIRAT KOHLI

Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan's opening partnership lay the foundation for India's run chase in the third T20I against Australia on Sunday which was then followed by a trademark knock from captain Virat Kohli as the visitors defeated the hosts to draw the three-match series in Sydney.

India rode on a 67-run partnership from Rohit (23) and Dhawan (41) at the top to chase down 165 with Kohli adding the finishing touches with an unbeaten 61 off 41 balls.

The openers scored the runs in just 33 balls which brought down the run-rate and made it easier for the others to follow.

Kohli, who hit the winning runs, came in the sixth over when India were 67/1 and made sure his team crossed the line well in time to deny the hosts a series win. India are now unbeaten in their last 10 T20I series which started with the one-off T20I against Sri Lanka in 2017.

India are now unbeaten in their last 10 T20I series which started with the one-off T20I against Sri Lanka in 2017.

Sydney T20I: Kohli, Dhawan help India gun down 165 to draw series vs Australia

Kohli, who came back to his usual batting position at No.3 after he had dropped to No.4 in the first game, praised Dhawan and Rohit's performance at the Sydney Cricket Ground after the match.

"Things become pretty easy when those two (Shikhar and Rohit) guys do the job for us. Overall, skill wise, we were better on the day than Australia. When our openers get into the zone they're difficult to stop. I come in at three and attempt to take us home," Kohli said at the post-match presentation.

India vs Australia Highlights, 3rd T20I: Kohli's unbeaten 61 helps India level series

Kohli's knock was laced with four boundaries and a couple of sixes. He was involved in a crucial 60-run partnership with Dinesh Karthik, who provided valuable support with his unbeaten 18-ball 22 runs.

"We thought the wicket slowed down with the old ball. That's how T20 cricket goes. You lose momentum, you gain it. I think DK (Dinesh Karthik) showed great composure at the death along with me stringing a partnership to get us home," Kohli added.

Sydney T20I: Krunal Pandya records best T20I bowling figures by a spinner in Australia

Before the batsmen came to the party, it was India's spinners who strangled Australia and restricted them to 164 for 6 after Aaron Finch won the toss and opted to bat.

Kohli reserved special praise for the bowlers, especially Krunal Pandya, who took career-best figures of 4 for 36 while Kuldeep Yadav returned 1 for 19 in 4 overs.

India vs Australia 2nd T20I at Sydney: As it happened

"I thought with the ball we were more professional today. I thought it was 180 type of wicket. Those 15 runs less were crucial. A level series is a great show of how the teams have played," Kohli said.

Krunal's performance earned him the man-of-the-match award while Dhawan was adjudged Player of the Series for top-scoring with 117 runs in two matches. Krunal's bowling figures were the best by a spinner in Australia and also the best by an Indian bowler in T20 internationals down under.

India had lost the first T20I in Brisbane while the second match in Melbourne was washed out after just 19 overs in the first innings. The focus now shifts to the four-match Test series which the two sides will start playing from December 6.

====== 375 ========

AARON FINCH SAYS AUSTRALIA ARE FEELING GOOD FOR TESTS AFTER DRAWN T20I SERIES

Australia captain Aaron Finch said the hosts are feeling good in the lead up to the much-anticipated Test series, starting December 6 in Adelaide.

Finch was seemingly buoyed by the drawn T20I series, in which India needed to fight for saving the three-match rubber in the decider in Sydney on Sunday.

Australia had headed into the final match of the rain-marred series leading the visitors 1-0 but a brilliant half-century from Virat Kohli helped India level the series and share the honours.

"Guys had a plan, just didn't execute in the middle overs with the bat. Still fair bit of work to do but we're going in the right direction which is nice. Feeling good for the Tests. Obviously a totally different format. Will get down to Brisbane and prepare for 5-6 days," Finch said at the post-match presentation ceremony on Sunday.

Also read: Kohli, Dhawan help India gun down 165 to draw series vs Australia



India were considered overwhelming favourites to win the T20I series but Australia took a 1-0 lead in a rain-affected first match in Brisbane. Finch's men avoided a possible defeat in the second T20I in Melbourne as rain led an to abandonment of play after an ordinary batting show from the hosts.

Meanwhile, the Australian T20I captain also conceded the difficulty of containing India openers Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma after the two gave the visiting team a flying start in chase of 165.

Also read: Sydney T20I - Krunal Pandya records best T20I bowling figures by a spinner in Australia



While Dhawan, who won the Man of the Series award, hit a 22-ball 41, Rohit collected 23 from 16 as the two openers stitched a 67-run stand in 33 balls and set India a solid platform.

The visitors stuttered a bit as they lost wickets in batches but Kohli along with finisher Dinesh Karthik amassed 60 runs in no time to help India cross the finish line at the Sydney Cricket Ground.

"Rohit and Dhawan are totally different styles of batsmen which is tough for bowlers. That's why they've been a great opening combination," Finch added.

"They batted extremely well in the powerplay. Always tough to bring it back from 1/67. If we had few more runs, would've had a chance. The way that we fought was brilliant."

Finch is part of the 14-man Test squad that has been named by Cricket Australia to face Kohli's high-flying visitors. The 32-year-old will be a key member of the team, which will be without Steve Smith and David Warner as the former captain-vice-captain duo is serving ball-tampering ban.

Finch hit 181 runs in a two-match series against Pakistan last month in the United Arab Emirates wherein he also made his debut in the longest format of the game.

The right-hander hit a 62 in his debut innings as Australia went on draw the first Test before losing the series 1-0.

====== 376 ========

I-LEAGUE: CHURCHILL BROTHERS THRASH MOHUN BAGAN, REAL KASHMIR WIN 1ST HOME MATCH

Willis Plaza became the I-League top scorer with five goals (@ILeagueOfficial Photo)

Churchill Brothers embarrassed Mohun Bagan 3-0 after former Trinidad and Tobago international Willis Plaza made a stunning return to the city, heading in a brace in the I-League on Sunday.

Forced to leave the Maidan after parting ways with East Bengal earlier this year, Plaza looked in ominous form and struck in a space of four minutes (51st and 55th) to become the leading scorer with five goals to his name.

He had scored a hat-trick in their 4-2 win over Shillong Lajong in the previous match.

Captain Dawda Ceesay drew the first blood in the 21st minute with an easy tap-in long before the Goans jumped to second spot with nine points from five matches. Mohun Bagan (8) slipped to fourth in the table.

Mohun Bagan were bolstered by the inclusion of their star Haitian forward Sony Norde who had a fine attempt in the 16th minute but his grounded shot from the edge of the box hit the woodwork.

Five minutes later the Goans went up when Lamgoulen Hangshing's cross for Willis Plaza was cleared by Dalraj Singh, but an unmarked Dawda Ceesay made no mistake to stun the noisy home crowd.

The Mariners found a golden chance to equalise in the 42nd minute but Yuta Kinowaki was unable to react quickly after Vicky Baskaran's half-hearted punch fell kindly for the Japanese.

Plaza took the match out of Mohun Bagan's equation in the second half with his back-to-back headers.

Israil Gurung's cross into the box was pin point for Plaza and he beat Dalraj Singh to head it home.

Ceesay set up Plaza's brace from the left flank and the Trinidadian found himself completely unmarked before sealing the issue with ease.

In the 90th minute, Ceesay could have also got his second but his long-ranger touched the wrong side of the crossbar before going out of play, saving Mohun Bagan further humiliation.

Churchill Brothers next face Gokulam Kerala in another away fixture on November 30 while Mohun Bagan will host league leaders Chennai City on December 1.

Real Kashmir secure 2-0 win over Indian Arrows

A super strike from Surchandra Singh and a well-judged header from Bazie Armand saw Real Kashmir pull off a superb 2-0 win over Indian Arrows for their maiden victory at home on Sunday.

Armand was rightfully adjudged the Hero of the Match for scoring a goal and playing a noticeable game in the midfield for the hosts.

With this win, Real Kashmir have now jumped up five spots to be placed at the 4th position with 7 points from 5 games.

(With inputs from PTI)

====== 377 ========

2ND TEST: BABAR AZAM, HARRIS SOHAIL CENTURIES PUT PAKISTAN IN CONTROL VS NEW ZEALAND

Pakistan's top-order batsmen Haris Sohail and Babar Azam struck contrasting centuries as they took control of the second Test against New Zealand on day two in Dubai on Sunday.

Resuming on their overnight total of 207/4, Pakistan ground down the Kiwi attack, with Sohail scoring 147 and Azam 127 not out before they declared their first innings on 418/5.

New Zealand were 24/0 after nine overs at the close of play, with opening batsmen Jeet Raval (17) and Tom Latham (5) at the crease.

The visitors are still 394 runs behind Pakistan but will fancy their chances of amassing a decent score on a Dubai International Cricket Stadium pitch that has progressively improved for batting.

Sohail, who had played patiently to reach 81 on Saturday, continued his innings in a similar manner to bring up only his second Test century in 309 balls.

The left-hander frustrated the Kiwi bowlers with his tight defence, combining with the more aggressive Azam to stitch together a 186-run stand for the fifth wicket.

Sohail fell shortly after the tea break, caught by wicketkeeper BJ Watling while chasing a delivery from pace bowler Trent Boult, to leave Pakistan at 360/5.

Azam, who was on 99, reached his maiden Test ton with a flick off his pads in the same over.

Well done boys

Latham & Raval make it to stumps on day two at 24-0 in reply to Pakistan’s 418-5. Tough Test toil this!

Card | https://t.co/fwkgkaF2JC #PAKvNZ pic.twitter.com/k9ndGvk8MF BLACKCAPS (@BLACKCAPS) November 25, 2018

The highly-rated 24-year-old looked set to push on in the company of skipper Sarfraz Ahmed (30 not out) before Pakistan declared their innings abruptly.

Ahmed then deployed five bowlers in nine overs in a bid to knock off a few Kiwi wickets, but bad light resulted in a premature end to the day.

New Zealand won the opening Test in Abu Dhabi by four runs to take a 1-0 lead in the series. The teams will return to the same venue for the final match from Dec. 3-7.

====== 378 ========

ISL: JAMSHEDPUR FC MOVE UP THE TABLE AS CHENNAIYIN FC STUMBLE AGAIN

Jamshedpur FC inflicted a 3-1 loss on defending champions Chennaiyin FC in the Indian Super League (ISL) encounter in Jamshedpur on Sunday.

Pablo Morgado fired Jamshedpur into the lead (14th minute) before Carlos Calvo doubled their advantage (29th). Raphael Augusto pulled one back in the second half (68th) before Mario Arques (72nd) restored the two-goal lead and ensured all three points for the home side.

Cesar Ferrando's men have now climbed to third spot on the points table while Chennaiyin remain ninth.

It was Jamshedpur who saw more of the ball in the initial stages at the JRD Tata Sports Complex.

They were rewarded in the 14th minute with a delightful strike by Morgado. A free-kick by Carlos Calvo was headed by Mailson Alves and the ball reached to Morgado, who whacked the ball into the back of the net from 30 yards, giving Karanjit Singh no chance whatsoever.

They had another chance when Arques headed over from a corner as he was allowed a free header inside the box.

Jamshedpur earned a penalty in the 28th minute when Sumeet Passi was brought down inside the box by Jerry Lalrinzuala. This was after Michael Soosairaj's right footed shot was punched by Karanjit only for Passi to be fouled. Calvo successfully converted from the spot to make it 2-0 for the home team.

The visitors never really tested Subrata Paul in goal as Jamshedpur totally dominated the proceedings.

In the second half, John Gregory made a change, bringing in Nondomba Singh for Jerry. The first opportunity of the second period came to Passi as he broke the offside trap and got into a one-on-one situation but his effort was just about kept out by Karanjit.

Although Chennaiyin improved their ball retention in the second half, they struggled to carve open the Jamshedpur defence. Gregory eventually threw caution to the winds and introduced Carlos Salom to replace Inigo Calderon.

.@ccalvo19 had a match to remember as his one assist and one goal took the match away from the defending champions @ChennaiyinFC and handed @JamshedpurFC 3 crisp points at home. #LetsFootball #HeroISL #FanBannaPadega #JAMCHE pic.twitter.com/zwAtB2MoHl Indian Super League (@IndSuperLeague) November 25, 2018

Just after the hour mark, Nelson was brought down inside the box by a combination of Bikash Jairu and Raju Gaikwad and the referee pointed at the spot. Raphael Augusto sent Paul the wrong way to pull one back.

Tim Cahill should have added his name on the scoresheet in the 70th minute when his shot was blocked by Eli Sabia for a corner. From the ensuing flag-kick, Arques' header saw Karanjit fumble and allow the ball to sneak into his own net.

Though Thoi Singh had a late chance to pull a goal back, Paul was up to the task as the hosts coasted to their third win of the season.

====== 379 ========

SYED MODI INTERNATIONAL: SAMEER DEFENDS TITLE, SAINA SETTLES FOR SILVER IN ONE-SIDED FINAL

Sameer Verma becomes the only men's singles shuttler to qualify for the Tour Finals (Twitter Photo)

Sameer Verma gave Indian supporters in Lucknow something to cheer on an otherwise disappointing day by winning the men's singles final of Syed Modi International Badminton Championships 2018 on Sunday.

The third seed and the defending champion needed an hour and 10 minutes to beat sixth seed Lu Guangzu of China 16-21, 21-19, 21-14 in the tightly-contested final.

World number 16 Sameer also became the first men's singles player to defend the Syed Modi Badminton Championships title. He had beaten compatriot Sai Praneeth in last year's final.

With the win, the 24-year-old has also qualified for the eight-man field at World Tour Finals, starting December 12 in Guangzhou. Sameer is now the only Indian men's singles shuttler to have qualified for the season-ending tournament.

Heartbreak for Saina, Satwik-Chirag duo

Meanwhile, former champion Saina Nehwal failed to produce her best, losing in straight games to young Han Yue of China in a one-sided women's singles summit clash earlier in the day.

Commonwealth Games silver medallists Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty also went down in straight games against second seeds Fajar Alfian and Muhammad Rian Ardianto of Indonesia to settle for the runners-up prize in the men's doubles competition.

It was heartbreak for Saina, who couldn't put enough pressure on Han, a 2017 world junior championship silver medallist, losing 18-21 8-21 in a 34-minute final to settle for another runner-up finish and pocket a cheque of USD 5,700.

Saina, who won a gold and a bronze medal at the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games, had ended second best at the Indonesia Masters in January and Denmark Open in October this year.

In the men's doubles, Satwik and Chirag squandered a 18-14 lead in the second game to lose 11-21 20-22 to world number seven Alfian and Ardianto in a 38-minute match.

In the women's singles final, the youngster from China, who had defeated former Olympic champion Li Xuerui in the semifinals, was a cut above the Indian, who struggled with her precision.

In the first game, Saina recovered from an early 0-2 deficit to lead 6-5. A net error and a weak return by Saina saw Han lead 8-6.

The Indian then reeled off four points, mixing smashes with angled returns, to move to 10-8 and then grabbed a 11-9 lead when the Chinese went wide.

Han pocketed three points but Saina again unleashed a down-the-line smash to claw back at 12-12 and then lead 14-12 with the Chinese going wide twice.

Saina kept using her smashes and angled returns to good effect, leading 17-12 at one stage.

Two miscued shots from Saina helped Han make it 15-17. The Indian smashed one to the net and also hit long and failed to reach a shot at the forecourt as Han led 19-18.

Han grabbed two game points when Saina left one at the back court and claimed the bragging rights when the Indian pushed one wide.

Kashyap's pep talk fails to make a difference

After a pep talk by would-be-husband Parupalli Kashyap, Saina returned to the court for the second game, which saw both the shuttlers gaining points from each other's unforced errors to be tied 3-3.

Saina struggled with her accuracy even as Han grew in confidence, reaching 10-6 when the Indian found the net and then hit wide. Another frustrated return from Saina gave Han a 11-6 advantage at the interval.

After the breather, Saina tried to match her younger opponent in the long rallies but Han produced some precise cross court smashes and returns to keep her nose ahead.

Saina paid the price of leaving the shuttle too short as Han punished them, moving to 16-8 at one stage.

Han kept hitting some quality strokes, while Saina struggled. The result was Han jumped to a 20-8 lead when Saina hit long. When the Indian again erred with her length, the Chinese sealed her maiden win.

(With inputs from PTI)

Also see:

====== 380 ========

SYDNEY T20I: KOHLI, DHAWAN HELP INDIA GUN DOWN 165 TO DRAW SERIES VS AUSTRALIA

Kohli and Karthik shared an unbeaten 60-run stand to take India over the line in Sydney (AP Photo)

Virat Kohli came back to his usual No.3 position in the batting order and it immediately made a difference as he led India to a 6-wicket win over Australia in the third and final T20 international on Sunday.

India rode on Kohli's unbeaten 61 and Shikhar Dhawan's 41 at the top of the order to chase 165 with two balls to spare at the Sydney Cricket Ground.

Kohli hit a boundary off the fourth ball in the last over to win the match for India and draw the three-match series 1-1. India are now unbeaten in their last 10 T20I series which started with the one-off T20I against Sri Lanka in 2017.

India vs Australia Highlights, 3rd T20I: Kohli's unbeaten 61 helps India level series

India had lost the first match in Brisbane while the second was washed out in Melbourne.

Secure hands! Virat Kohli's shot was elite, but this security guard's grab gets our Play of the Day!#AUSvIND @bet365_aus pic.twitter.com/eTMXtXwghi cricket.com.au (@cricketcomau) November 25, 2018

Dinesh Karthik also made a useful 22 not out off 18 balls and along with the India captain, added 60 off 39 balls for the fifth-wicket to take India past the finish line in front of a jam-packed SCG, which saw Indian fans turn up in full numbers.

The bowlers tried hard to stop the visitors but it was the brisk 67-run opening stand between Dhawan and Rohit (23) which really lay a solid platform for the run chase.

Sydney T20I: Krunal Pandya records best T20I bowling figures by a spinner in Australia

Mitchell Starc, Adam Zampa, Glenn Maxwell and Andrew Tye picked up a wicket each for the Aussies but were unable to stop the Indian batters on a good batting wicket in Sydney.

Earlier, a collective batting effort guided Australia to post a respectable 164 for 6 after Aaron Finch won the toss and opted to bat first.

Left-arm off-spinner Krunal Pandya returned with career best figures of 4/36, while chinaman Kuldeep Yadav was also impressive after conceding just 19 runs from his four overs and also picked a wicket.

Opting to bat, Australia were off to a decent start as openers Aaron Finch and D Arcy Short played sensible cricket and the hosts raced away to 41 runs in just five overs.

Just when the partnership between the openers seemed to be getting bigger, Krunal came in with the much needed breakthrough, picking Finch (28) before the wickets, with Australia at 68/1 in 8.3 overs.

Shikhar Dhawan lit up the early stages of the run chase with some awesome strokeplay!#AUSvIND @toyota_aus pic.twitter.com/COK9uOLP33 cricket.com.au (@cricketcomau) November 25, 2018

With the addition of another five runs on Australia's scorecard, Kuldeep gave another jolt as the chinaman packed back a well-settled Short (33) in the 10th over. Krunal then dismissed incoming batsman Ben McDermott on a duck, leaving the hosts at 73/3.

His fall saw Glenn Maxwell come in the middle, but while trying to launch a ball of Krunal into orbit, the batsman was caught at long-on by Rohit Sharma, leaving the hosts tottering at 90/4.

Stumper Alex Carey (27) and Chris Lynn (13) then added 29 runs for the fifth wicket, helping their side cross the three digit mark. However, Krunal was in no mood to spare the aussies, who had clobbered him for 55 runs in Brisbane, and picked his fourth wicket by sending back Carey in the 16th over.

With Australia at 131, Lynn departed after failing to complete his ground and Jasprit Bumrah made no mistake in hitting the bulls eye.

Marcus Stoinis then played a 15-ball 25 run knock, while Nathan Coulter-Nile chipped in with 13 runs off seven deliveries in the final overs to help the hosts reach a good total.

(With IANS inputs)

====== 381 ========

GANGULY RELATES TO MITHALI'S OMISSION FROM WORLD T20 SEMI-FINAL: 'WELCOME TO THE GROUP'

Former India captain Sourav Ganguly on Sunday said he was not surprised by India women's cricket team's decision to drop veteran batter Mithali Raj during their World T20 semifinal loss to England.

Despite scoring back-to-back fifties, the ODI captain was rested for the final league stage game against Australia due to a knee injury and didn't figure in the semis too.

The decision caused a furore in the Indian cricketing fraternity with critics and fans slamming captain Harmanpreet Kaur and the team management.

Women's World T20: India suffer heartbreak against England in semi-finals

The Committee of Administrators (CoA) is also likely to step in now and hold a meeting with Harmanpreet and Mithali very soon.

"No! I have also sat out in the dug out after captaining India. When I saw Mithali Raj being dropped, I said 'Welcome to the group'," Ganguly said while addressing a gathering at the Tollygunge Club in Kolkata.

Also read - Women's World T20: Mithali's exclusion raises questions after India's semi-final loss

The matter that was not well received by fans on social media and it completely blew out of proportion after Mithali's manager Annisha Gupta called Harmanpreet "manipulative, lying, cheat" on Twitter.

Citing his example during the Greg Chappell era, Ganguly said: "Captains are asked to sit, so just do it. I have done it in Faisalabad. I didn't play an ODI game for 15 months when I was probably the best performer in one-day cricket... It happens in life. The best in the world are at times shown the door," the 46-year-old said recalling the 2006 second Test against Pakistan.

Mithali Raj 'terribly disappointed' after World T20 semis axing, says personal coach

India's campaign at the Women's World T20 came to a distasteful end as England strolled past them by eight wickets into the final against Australia. Australia, on Sunday, thrashed England by eight wickets to lift their fourth World T20 title.

But Ganguly said it's not the end of the world for Mithali.

"You should always remember you're best because you did something and there's an opportunity again. So, I am not too disappointed seeing Mithali being asked to sit out. I have not been disappointed to see the reactions on the ground.

"But I am disappointed because India lost the semifinals because I thought they had the team to go the distance. It happens as they say there's no guarantee in life. Do the best," expressed Ganguly.

"Women's cricket had had a lot of hurdles last few years and very rightly so. It's good to see that they have been looked after now and paid good numbers," the former India captain further opined.

Ganguly was also asked about MS Dhoni, who has not been in the best of form for some time now and is not part of the current T20I and ODI side in Australia.

"He's another champion... Fantastic career for 12-13 years since winning the World Twenty 20. Just like everyone else he has to perform. There's one must in life: whatever job you do, wherever you are, whatever age you have, how much experience you have, you have to keep performing at the top level otherwise someone else will take your place," Ganguly pointed out.

"I wish him (Dhoni) all the luck because we want champions to go on a high, whenever he goes. I still feel he can hit the ball in the stands. He's a phenomenal cricketer," Ganguly said.

(With IANS inputs)

====== 382 ========

PERFECT MATCH: ALYSSA HEALY-MITCHELL STARC BECOME FIRST COUPLE TO WIN BEST PLAYER AT WORLD CUPS

Alyssa Healy won the player-of-the-tournament at the 2018 Women's WT20, while Mitchell Starc won his at the 2015 50-over World Cup (Mitchell Starc Instagram)

Australia defeated by eight wickets to win their fourth Women's World T20 title in Antigua on Saturday.

Alyssa Healy was adjudged the player-of-the-tournament, as she scored 225 runs at an average of 56.25, including two fifties and a couple of forties.

Healy and her husband Mitchell Starc, who represents the Australian men's cricket team, thus became the first couple to win the best player at a cricket World Cup.

Starc had won the honour at the 2015 men's 50-over World Cup, after his impressive haul of wickets from eight matches. He had also finished with the best strike rate by any bowler and the best average and the best economy rate.

Also read - Alyssa Healy proud after Mitchell Starc pockets historic hat-trick

Since meeting as nine-years-olds on a cricket pitch, when the pair were giving trials for Sydney's Northern District Cricket Association, the love story between Healy and Starc is nothing short of a fairytale.

The pair tied the knot in April 2015 and have been together for six-and-a-half years now.

Also read - Mitchell Starc proud of wife Alyssa Healy's historic ODI hundred

"Lucky I brought my golf bag!"



After four Player of the Match awards, there is absolutely no surprise that Alyssa Healy is your 2018 World T20 Player of the Tournament!#WT20 pic.twitter.com/3yrwjzRpdP Australian Women's Cricket Team (@SouthernStars) November 25, 2018

"Lucky I got my golf bag so that I can put some extra stuff. The girls played beautifully tonight," Healy said after receiving the player-of-the-tournament award to along with her four player-of-the-tournament awards from the tournament.

"Really proud. A team effort. I've just really enjoyed the freedom at the top and play some fearless cricket. Looking forward to play in the Big Bash and see if I can continue. Very special. We worked really hard to build on that culture. With the group's that we've got there's many more to come," she said at the post match presentation.

Also read - Australia win 4th title with 8-wicket win over England

"(Winning World T20) 2010 is still my favourite, but this one might top it. It's an amazing place to tour and the people here are really friendly. It's a fun place to tour," she added.

Earlier in the tournament, Dane van Niekerk and Marizanne Kapp of South Africa became the first married couple to bat together in an ICC tournament.

Read - 1st married couple to bat together in an ICC tournament

The couple were involved in a 67-run partnership for the third wicket as South Africa stormed to victory against Sri Lanka in the Women's World T20 group stage.

Also watch -

====== 383 ========

3RD TEST: ENGLAND 6 WICKETS AWAY FROM HISTORIC SERIES SWEEP AFTER SRI LANKA COLLAPSE

England are all set to register their first Test series sweep in Sri Lanka (Reuters Photo)

England are six wickets away from a historic 3-0 whitewash of Sri Lanka after reducing the hosts to 54 for 4 at stumps on day three of the third Test at Sinhalese Sports Club on Sunday.

Having set the hosts an improbable target of 327, England bowlers ran through the Sri Lankan top order.

Off-spinner Moeen Ali, who shared the new ball with Stuart Broad, dismissed both openers.

Danushka Gunathilaka (6) was caught at first slip by Ben Stokes while Dimuth Karunaratne was clean bowled for 23.

Sri Lanka vs England 3rd Test Day 3: As it happened

Jack Leach claimed a wicket in his third ball of the innings when he dismissed first-innings half-centurion Dhananjaya de Silva for no score.

Ben Stokes dismissed Angelo Mathews with a short ball having got him out in the same fashion in the first innings. Mathews pulled a delivery without control and Broad at short mid-wicket took a terrific diving catch.

Sri Lanka were ruing the dismissal of their premier batsman with four balls left to the close of play.

Kusal Mendis was unbeaten on 15 with nightwatchman Lakshan Sandakan on one.

England, who had a first innings lead of 96 runs, made 230 all out in their second innings.

England had a poor start, losing four wickets for 39 in the first hour of the morning session before Jos Buttler and Ben Stokes staged a recovery.

Buttler top scored with 64 runs having successfully reviewed after being given out leg before wicket when on 27.

Stokes, who was twice dismissed off no-balls by Lakshan Sandakan for overstepping the line went on to post 42 runs.

Stokes and Buttler shared an 89-run partnership for the fifth wicket.

Wicketkeeper batsman Ben Foakes, who added 44 for the eighth wicket with Adil Rashid (24), was unbeaten on 36.

Foakes playing in his debut series made significant contributions finishing with 277 runs in six innings at an average of 69, the most by a batsman from either side.

Dilruwan Perera finished with a five-wicket haul, his eighth in Test cricket.

England won the first Test by 211 runs and sealed the series at Pallekele with a 57-run win. It was their first win in Sri Lanka in 17 years.

England is closing on a 3-0 series sweep. Only two other teams - Australia in 2004 and India in 2017 - had achieved the milestone in Sri Lanka.

(With AP inputs)

====== 384 ========

INDIA VS AUSTRALIA, 3RD T20I HIGHLIGHTS: VIRAT KOHLI'S UNBEATEN 61 HELPS INDIA LEVEL SERIES

Virat Kohli lauds Shikhar Dhawan, Rohit Sharma

Winning captain Virat Kohli speaks at the post-match presentation ceremony. The skipper lauds the two Indian openers and Dinesh Karthik, who is building his reputation as a finisher in the T20I cricket.

"Things become pretty easy with those two guys play like that at the top. I think DK showed great composure at the death along with me stringing a partnership to get us home. I think Maxy and Zampa bowled very well. I thought overall, skill wise we were better than Australia."

"I thought with the ball we were more professional today. I thought it was 180 type of wicket. Those 15 runs less were crucial total. A level series is a great show of how the teams have played."

====== 385 ========

COMMITTEE OF ADMINISTRATORS TO MEET MITHALI, HARMANPREET AFTER WORLD T20 CONTROVERSY

Mithali Raj's personal coach said she was 'terribly disappointed' by the axing in Women's World T20 semi-final. (Reuters file Photo)

The Committee of Administrators (CoA) is likely to hold a meeting with Indian women's cricket team captain Harmanpreet Kaur and senior-most player Mithali Raj after the latter's controversial exclusive from the Women's World T20 semi-final vs England. The matter that was not well received by fans on social media completely blew out of proportion after Mithali's manager Annisha Gupta made unsavoury against Harmanpreet.

India's campaign at the Women's World T20 came to a distasteful end as England strolled past them by eight wickets into the final against Australia. Australia, on Sunday, thrashed England by eight wickets to lift their fourth World T20 title.

Mithali Raj might give her point of view in writing to BCCI GM (Cricket Operations) Saba Karin, who is also in charge of women's cricket, according to a top BCCI official.

A senior BCCI official said on condition of anonymity, "It is understood that a meeting will be held soon here and CoA is likely to speak separately to Harmanpreet, Mithali, Ramesh (coach Ramesh Powar), manager Trupti Bhattacharya and tour selector Sudha Shah to understand what led to Mithali's omission."

Also read - Women's World T20: Mithali's exclusion raises questions after India's semi-final loss

CoA chief Vinod Rai was also unhappy with the players's agents making public comments about team selection.

"The comments made by people who appear to be associated with the Indian women's team have been viewed with concern. Such statements made in the media are totally uncalled for," Rai told news agency PTI on Sunday.

His comment came after Mithali's manager Annisha Gupta labelled Harmanpreet as "manipulative, lying, cheat" on Twitter. She also tweeted there was politics behind Mithali's omission even as her account '@annishasays' was deleted later.

Even Mithali's personal coach came out and said that Mithali was "terribly disappointed" with being axed from the playing XI in the semi-final.

"The BCCI has a hierarchy of officials specifically dedicated to the redressal of genuine grievances of players," said Rai.

"This is the appropriate mechanism that should be utilised. Issues that have been the cause for the performance of the Indian women's team will be appropriately addressed."

However, he urged people associated with the women's team to maintain restraint.

"All players, the team management and persons associated with them must maintain decorum and follow the proper protocol," Rai further said.

It is learnt that issues like alleged bias in team selection will be looked into, considering that strained relations between Harmanpreet and Mithali is an open secret in the Indian cricket fraternity.

(With PTI inputs)

Also watch -

====== 386 ========

RONALDO BECOMES SERIE A JOINT-TOP SCORER AS JUVENTUS REGISTER EASY WIN OVER SPAL

Juventus moved nine points clear at the top of Serie A with a 2-0 win over SPAL on Saturday as Cristiano Ronaldo's strike made him the league's joint-top scorer.

Goals either side of the break from the Portugal international and Mario Mandzukic earned Juve their 12th win of an unbeaten start to the league season, with Ronaldo joining Genoa striker Krzysztof Piatek on nine goals.

Massimiliano Allegri's side have now collected 37 points from a possible 39 and hold a significant lead over second-placed Napoli on 28 points ahead of their game against Chievo on Sunday.

Juventus appeared to have taken the lead after just 10 minutes when SPAL defender Felipe deflected a cross into his own net, but the effort was disallowed after Mandzukic was penalised for encroaching in the penalty box as Alfred Gomis took his goal kick in the build-up.

After half an hour, Ronaldo opened the scoring with a controlled left-footed finish into the corner from Miralem Pjanic's free kick, becoming the first player since Pietro Anastasi in 1968-69 to reach nine goals in 13 games for the club.

Juventus, one of three teams in Europe's top five leagues to have scored in every league game this season along with Barcelona and Paris St Germain, doubled their lead on the hour mark shortly after Douglas Costa had rattled the post from a tight angle.

Costa's powerful shot was parried by Gomis into the path of Mandzukic, who tapped in from close range on the night that he captained Juventus from the start for the first time.

Ronaldo threatened to add a second, forcing Gomis into a smart save from distance before shooting wide from a promising position as Juventus strolled to a comfortable victory.

In the early kickoff, Davide Nicola masterminded a 1-0 win over AS Roma on his debut as Udinese coach, ending a 10-match losing run for his new club in the fixture.

Rodrigo De Paul scored the only goal of the game early in the second half to move Udinese above Bologna into 16th place on 12 points, while Roma remained on 19 points in seventh.

====== 387 ========

BRISBANE T20I: MAXWELL, STOINIS STAR IN AUSTRALIA'S THRILLING WIN OVER INDIA

Short description:

Brisbane T20I: Glenn Maxwell top scored for Australia while Marcus Stoinis shone with both bat and ball as Australia beat India by 4 runs (DLS method).

====== 388 ========

SHIKHAR DHAWAN STARS AS INDIA SWEEP T20I SERIES VS WEST INDIES

Short description:

Shikhar Dhawan struck 92 off 62 deliveries to help India thrash West Indies by 6 wickets in the third and final T20 and sweep the series.

====== 389 ========

ROHIT SHARMA HUNDRED POWERS INDIA TO 71-RUN WIN OVER HAPLESS WEST INDIES

Short description:

Rohit Sharma's record hundred helped India beat West Indies by 71 runs and take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the 3-match series

====== 390 ========

KRUNAL PANDYA'S ALL-ROUND SHOW HELPS INDIA EDGE PAST WEST INDIES IN KOLKATA

Short description:

Krunal Pandya returned with figures of 1/15 from his four overs and remained not out on 21 off 9 balls as India beat West Indies by 5 wickets in Kolkata.

====== 391 ========

AB DE VILLIERS, GARRY KASPAROV, MO FARAH AND RIC CHARLESWORTH EXPLORE PERFECTION IN SPORT

Sporting legends Mo Farah, AB de Villiers, Richard Charlesworth and Garry Kasparov share their views on how perfection is just an idea and how each sportsperson only strives to be perfect at India Today's special programme Perfect Strokes.

While Mo Farah is a middle-distance track legend, AB de Villiers is one of the most celebrated cricketers in the world. Ric Charlesworth is perhaps one of those few hockey players who found immense success both as a player and coach while Garry Kasparov changed the face of chess in the world.

====== 392 ========

MAGNIFICENT MARY KOM REWRITES HISTORY BOOKS WITH SIXTH WORLD BOXING TITLE

Indian boxing legend M.C. Mary Kom scripted history by clinching a record sixth World Championship Gold medal in the light flyweight 48 kilogram category after outclassing Ukraine's Hanna Okhota 5:0 at the K.D. Jadhav Indoor Stadium here on Saturday.

The 35-year-old Mary, a mother of three and a pre-tournament favourite for the gold, rewrote the record books when she eclipsed her joint haul of five golds with Katie Taylor of Ireland.

The Manipuri pugilist, who went over her weight category to clinch a 51kg bronze at the London Olympics, previously clinched the World Championship gold on five occasions -- 2002, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2010 -- besides bagging a silver on her debut in 2001.

====== 393 ========

RAHUL JOHRI GIVEN CLEAN CHIT IN SEXUAL HARASSMENT CASE

BCCI CEO Rahul Johri resumed duties after the Committee of Administrators (COA) chairman Vinod Rai ruled that he should continue as a natural consequence of the findings of independent probe committee.

"It's been a traumatic few months for our family. I am grateful to God and thanks to all for having faith in me. I am really grateful to the independent inquiry committee. We were always confident that truth would prevail," Johri told India Today.

====== 394 ========

EXCLUSIVE: HIMA DAS KEEN TO INSPIRE GEN NEXT

Hima Das has been a sensation ever since she became the first Indian athlete to win gold at the IAAF U20 World Championships earlier this year. Even as Hima's brand and presence started getting better, the Assam runner did not let her guards down and made a sensational debut in the Asian Games 2018.

Despite harbouring expectations of a billions of people, Hima won three medals at the Asian Games -- gold in women's 4x400 relay, silver in 400m and silver in mixed 4x400 relay.

Hima has made a journey from running bare feet to having branded shoes with her name on it. She is a rare athlete to feature on the cover of magazine but more than a source of just making her name, she feels these covers might inspire more kids to take up sports and athletics.

"Yes, it feels good. It's like people can get inspired by looking at that as well and more kids will want to enter sports. You know because then parents are like 'see this player, he/she played and made a name. You can also do that'. So this is good for inspiration," Hima told indiatoday.in.

====== 395 ========

BAHRAIN BANS OPPOSITION GROUPS, HOLDS ELECTIONS, THEN SAYS IT WAS ALL DEMOCRATIC

Bahrainis voted on Saturday in a parliamentary election from which opposition groups have been barred, in a crackdown on dissent in the small Sunni-led, Western-allied kingdom.

Activists have called for a boycott of the vote, which they say is a "farce". The government says the election is "democratic".

The Sunni ruling Al Khalifa family has kept a lid on dissent since the Shi'ite opposition staged a failed uprising in 2011. Saudi Arabia sent in troops to help crush that unrest in a mark of concern that any power-sharing concession by Bahrain could inspire Saudi Arabia's own Shi'ite minority.

Riyadh regards the neighbouring island nation, which does not possess vast oil wealth like other Gulf states, as a critical ally in its proxy wars with Iran in the Middle East.

Bahrain, which is home to the U.S. Navy's Fifth Fleet, has closed the main opposition groups, barred their members from running in elections and prosecuted scores of people, many described by human rights groups as activists, in mass trials.

"Clearly, legislatures from the world's leading democratic states believe that the upcoming election in Bahrain lacks legitimacy. You simply cannot crush, torture and imprison your entire opposition, call for a pseudo-election, and then demand the respect of the international community," said Sayed Ahmed Alwadaei, director of the UK-based Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy (BIRD).

The government said 506 candidates are running in the election, including 137 for local city councils and the highest number of female candidates. It expects a bigger voter turnout than in 2014, which it put at 53 percent, when opposition groups boycotted the elections.

Bahrain's state news agency (BNA) said voting began at 8 a.m. (0500 GMT) and will continue until 8 p.m. (1700 GMT). Around 365,000 are expected to turn up at 54 polling stations, it added.

Only 23, out of 40 incumbents of the House of Representatives, are seeking re-election this year to parliament, which has limited powers.

The kingdom's interior ministry called on Bahrainis to disregard rumours and seek "trusted sources" for information. "Text messages saying your name has been removed and calling on you not to vote are false," the ministry said in a Twitter post.

The ministry later accused Iran of sending the messages saying it was "the source of 40,000 e-messages to disturb the parliamentary and municipal elections."

Tehran could not be immediately reached for a comment.

BAHRAIN EMBOLDENED

Many of Bahrain's Shi'ites say they are deprived of jobs and government services and treated as second class citizens in the country of 1.5 million.

The authorities deny the allegations and accuse Iran of fostering unrest that has seen demonstrators clash with security forces, who have been targeted by several bomb attacks. Tehran denies the allegations.

Human Rights Watch said in a statement that Manama is failing to create conditions necessary for a free election by "jailing or silencing people who challenge the ruling family" and banning all opposition parties.

A leader of dissolved opposition group al-Wefaq said the rise of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has emboldened Bahrain's authorities in their crackdown, which has included stripping scores of activists of their nationality.

"They couldn't go ahead with all the crackdown without the strong backing of the Saudi government. Mohammed bin Salman listens only to hardliners in Bahrain's ruling family," Ali Alaswad, who lives in self-exile in London and has been sentenced in absentia to life in prison, told Reuters.

Government opponents say the space for political expression has been shrinking in the lead up to the election. Several activists, including a former lawmaker, were arrested earlier this week for tweeting about boycotting elections, activists said.

"No-one is barred from expressing their political views," said a government spokeswomen. "Bahrain is home to 16 political societies, the majority of which have put forward candidates for the upcoming elections, and the government fully supports open and inclusive political dialogue."

Some opposition figures hope the outcry over the murder of prominent Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Riyadh's consulate in Istanbul last month could help strengthen more moderate voices in the region, including members of Bahrain's royal family who are open to dialogue with the opposition.

Also read: Saudi crown prince’s carefully managed rise hides dark side

Also read: Trump, Europeans call Saudi account of Khashoggi death incomplete

====== 396 ========

INDONESIA PLANE CRASH: BODY OF INDIAN PILOT BHAVYE SUNEJA IDENTIFIED

Indonesian authorities have identified the body of Indian pilot Bhavye Suneja. Suneja captained the ill-fated Indonesian plane which crashed into the sea on October 29, 2018.

External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, in a tweet, announced about the identification of Suneja's body.

"Indonesian authorities have confirmed identification of the body of Capt Bhavya Suneja. The remains will be handed over to the family in the presence of @IndianEmbJkt today. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family," she tweeted.

Indonesian authorities have confirmed identification of the body of Capt.Bhavya Suneja. The remains will be handed over to the family in the presence of @IndianEmbJkt today. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) November 24, 2018

The Lion Air flight, with 188 passengers and crew on board, crashed into the sea off Indonesia's island of Java, minutes after taking off from Jakarta Soekarno Hatta International Airport.

Captain Suneja, 31, was from Delhi.

After completing his studies at Ahlcon Public School in Mayur Vihar, Suneja received his flying license in 2009. He married in 2016 and was based in Jakarta.

(Inputs from PTI)

Read more on Indonesian plane crash:

With no likely survivors, Lion Air crash may be Indonesia's second-worst in history

Hours before Lion Air plane crash, pilot sent SOS on previous flight

====== 397 ========

EUROPEAN COUNCIL HEAD DONALD TUSK SAYS CLOSER TO BREXIT SUMMIT AFTER TALKS WITH SPANISH PM

Donald Tusk’s (in pic) spokesperson confirmed the talks between the European Council President and the Spanish Prime Minister on Twitter. (Photo: Twitter/ @eucopresident)

European Union (EU) summit chair Donald Tusk said on Saturday that a Brexit summit on Sunday which had been in doubt over Spanish concerns on Gibraltar was now closer to going ahead as planned after he spoke to the Spanish prime minister.

"After the phone call between (European Council President Tusk) and (Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez) a few minutes ago, we are closer to tomorrow's (European Council)," Tusk's spokesman said on Twitter.

Sanchez had on Friday threatened to boycott the summit, which aims to sign off on the terms of Britain's withdrawal from the EU in March, if negotiations that went on through Saturday failed to provide assurances that Madrid would have a strong say on how any post-Brexit treaty with London applied to Gibraltar.

As negotiations among Spanish, British and EU officials wore into Saturday, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said he was ready to thwart his British counterpart May's hopes of seeing EU leaders sign off on promises of close ties with London after Britain leaves the bloc in March if he did not get his way.

Also read: London deal is falling down: PM May faces uphill battle as Brexit secretary resigns

Also read: London mayor Sadiq Khan pitches for second referendum on Brexit

====== 398 ========

AL-QAEDA, ISLAMIC STATE LESS DANGEROUS THAN RUSSIA: BRITISH ARMY CHIEF

In his first interview, General Carleton-Smith said Russia was "indisputably" a bigger threat than IS and Al-Qaeda. (Photo: IANS)

In a rather unusual comment, the chief of the British Army General Mark Carleton-Smith has compared Russia with terror groups like the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda.

In an interview to a British newspaper, General Carleton-Smith said that Russia was now a "far greater threat" to the United Kingdom's (UK) national security than the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda.

The army chief said this during his first interview since being appointed Chief of the General Staff in June. In the interview to The Daily Telegraph, General Carleton-Smith said Russia was "indisputably" a bigger threat than Islamic terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda and the IS.

ALSO READ | Islamic State executes 2,900 civilians in Syria during 'caliphate': SOHR report

"Russia has embarked on a systematic effort to explore and exploit Western vulnerabilities, particularly in some of the non-traditional areas of cyber, space, undersea warfare," he said.

"We cannot be complacent about the threat Russia poses or leave it uncontested."

According to The Guardian, the general also said that since now the threat from Islamist groups in the Middle East has reduced due to years of concerted international military action, "the focus needs to shift to Russia".

The 54-year-old former SAS commander led the search for slain Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11, 2001, terror attacks and was at the forefront of Britain's role in the campaign to combat the IS in Iraq and Syria.

ALSO READ | Survivors of last major Islamic State battle in Iraq beg for food

His comments come months after the UK blamed Russia for the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury.

In October, the British government accused Russia's GRU military intelligence service of being behind four high-profile cyber-attacks on targets, including the US Democratic Party and a small TV network in Britain.

Russia denies any involvement in the spy poisoning and has described the cyber-attack accusations as a "rich fantasy".

ALSO READ | US confirms killing of top Islamic State cleric

Carleton-Smith also took the opportunity to downplay the need for a separate European army, as recently encouraged by French President Emmanuel Macron.

"I would not support any initiative that diluted the military effectiveness of NATO," he said, according to news agency AFP.

(With inputs from agencies)

ALSO WATCH | How youth of India have been lured by terror outfit ISIS in recent times

====== 399 ========

GERMAN MAN CHARGED WITH OVER 36,000 DEATHS IN NAZI CONCENTRATION CAMP

During the time of the crime, at least 36,223 people were killed at the Mauthausen concentration camp. (Photo: Reuters)

A 95-year-old Berlin resident has been charged with being an accessory to the murder of over 36,000 people at the Mauthausen death camp in Austria during World War Two, the Berlin prosecutor's office said.

The man, identified only as Hans H for legal reasons, is alleged to have served in a Nazi SS-company at the largest Nazi death camp in Austria from summer 1944 to spring 1945.

He is accused of having guarded inmates at the camp, about 20 km from the Austrian city of Linz, and during marches to forced labour sites, the office said in a statement.

"During the time of the crime, at least 36,223 people were killed at the Mauthausen concentration camp. The killings were mostly carried out through gassing, but also through 'death bath actions', injections and shootings, as well as through starvation and freezing," it said.

The suspect was "aware of all the killing methods as well as the disastrous living conditions of the incarcerated people at the camp" the statement said. It said he wanted to "support or at least help make easier the many thousands of deaths carried out by the main perpetrator".

The prosecutor's office said it was bringing the charges under new laws that allow the prosecution of people involved in the Nazi "machinery of death" even if they did not personally kill anyone.

Faced with the advancing age of the suspects, Germany has stepped up prosecutions of lower-ranking individuals since the 2011 conviction of John Demjanjuk, a guard at Sobibor death camp. That case established a new precedent that no proof of a specific crime was needed to convict a defendant.

In recent years, some other former SS camp guards have been convicted but died either before the conviction was legally binding or before they had to go behind bars.

Another 95-year-old German man who is on trial for assisting in the murder of hundreds of people at the Stutthof camp, near what is now the Polish city of Gdansk, this month told the court he had never been a Nazi and was not indifferent to the suffering of inmates.

ALSO READ | Why Hitler's 'priestess' Savitri Devi said he might be an avatar of Vishnu

====== 400 ========

WE'RE ALL GOING TO DIE: DRUNK INDIAN-ORIGIN WOMAN JAILED FOR CAUSING PANIC ON FLIGHT

The woman had consumed about six to eight drinks before boarding and proceeded to have four to six drinks in flight. (Representational photo: Reuters)

An Indian-origin woman has been jailed for six months in the UK for drunken behaviour on an aeroplane which caused a passenger to have a seizure.

According to the prosecutors, 41-year-old Kiran Jagdev had consumed between six and eight beers before boarding the four-hour Jet2 flight from Tenerife, Spain to the UK in January this year. She then proceeded to drink a further four to six glasses of wine on the plane, using her own supply from her handbag when the crew refused her more drinks.

"She continued to ask cabin crew for a drink and they continued to refuse her and she was issued with an Air Navigation Order," Prosecutor Joey Kwong told the court.

Jagdev proceeded to scream, swear, cry and kick the seat in front of her, causing the person sitting there to have a seizure.

After she was moved for kicking seats, an off-duty police officer on the same flight offered to sit next to her to assist cabin crew but she began making "vulgar" comments to him.

Due to a bumpy landing, the pilot was unable to put the craft down on the approach -- which triggered another foul-mouthed tirade where she shouted 'we’re all going to die' for about 10 minutes.

She was arrested by police on landing and proceeded to direct abusive remarks at airport immigration authorities.

This incident came days after Jagdev was convicted of assault in Tenerife and was handed a suspended sentence.

Author of misfortune

Jagdev attempted to blame the crew of Jet2 airline for supplying her with alcohol during her flight from Tenerife back to the UK.

Judge Philip Head rejected her excuse and decided to impose what he described as a deterrent sentence during a hearing at Leicester Crown Court this week."The effect you had on other passengers must have been dreadful," the judge said.

"There isn't any excuse. We can't put the blame on anyone other than herself and she accepts that" her defence lawyer, Harbinder Lally, told the court.

The judge concluded: "You are the author of your own and other people's misfortune.

"This demands a deterrent sentence so people who travel by air and get drunk will know there are consequences."

READ| Indian-origin man jailed in Singapore for molesting flight attendant

WATCH| Drunk Irish woman abuses, spits at Air India crew

====== 401 ========

RUSSIA, STUNG BY INTELLIGENCE LEAKS, PLANS TO TIGHTEN DATA PROTECTION

Bill requires state agencies setting up systems for handling personal data consult with Federal Security Service | Photo from REUTERS

Russia has drawn up draft legislation aimed at stopping leaks of personal information from state agencies, a step that follows publication of details of Russians allegedly involved in clandestine intelligence operations abroad.

The bill, produced by Russia's communications ministry, bars unauthorised people from creating and publishing databases of personal data drawn from official sources, and fines anyone violating that rule.

It also requires that state agencies setting up systems for handling personal data consult with the Federal Security Service, Russia's main domestic intelligence agency.

The communications ministry did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters.

The bill, published late on Thursday (November 22), says it is in response to a 2017 instruction from President Vladimir Putin and makes no mention of the spate of leaks.

However, Russian authorities have been embarrassed by leaks about two men Britain alleges were Russian intelligence agents who used a nerve agent to poison former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia denies involvement.

The two men told Russian television they were innocent tourists who went to the English city of Salisbury, where Skripal was living, to view its cathedral.

But the Bellingcat investigative journalism website, drawing on leaked passport information, identified the two as officers with Russia's GRU military intelligence agency.

In a separate case, a Russian accused in a U.S. indictment of conducting cyber attacks around the world was traced, via leaked official databases, to an address in Moscow that Washington says is a base for Russian military intelligence.

The legislation, comprising two draft laws and a draft government resolution, has been published for a 30-day period of public consultation, after which it will be submitted to parliament and the government for approval.

Russia has an active black market in illegal databases compiled using confidential information stolen from state-run registries. The data includes passport details, addresses, car registrations, flight manifests and even tax returns.

Releasing personal data in this way is already illegal under existing legislation, but Russian authorities have struggled to stamp out the practice. Many of the databases are openly available on the Internet.

Read more on world news:

Police struggle to recover body of American killed on isolated Andaman island

Donald Trump stands by Saudi crown prince despite Jamal Khashoggi's killing

====== 402 ========

SIKHS AMONG 31 KILLED, 40 HURT IN POWERFUL BLAST IN PAK'S NORTHWEST

A man injured in a blast in Orakzai lies at a hospital bed after he was brought for treatment in Peshawar | Photo from REUTERS

At least 31 people, including three Sikhs, were killed and more than 40 others injured when a powerful bomb blast ripped through a busy market outside a religious seminary in Pakistan's restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on Friday (November 22), officials said.

The explosive material was planted in a bike in the Friday Market (Juma Bazar) near an imambargah, a Shia religious place, in Orakzai tribal district's Kalaya area, bordering Afghanistan.

People were buying warm clothes when the bomb went off, officials said.

At least 31 people were killed while more than 40 others injured, district administration officials as saying.

"Three Sikh traders and three children were also among the dead in the Orakzai blast," Deputy Commissioner of Orakzai Tribal district Khalid Iqbal told PTI.

Officials said that most of the victims were minority Shia Muslims, who in the past were also targeted in the area.

"Three children were among those killed. The remote-controlled bomb was attached to a motorcycle," officials said.

The area has been cordoned off and investigation into the incident is under way.

An emergency has been declared in the region's hospitals to handle the situation.

Prime Minister Imran Khan strongly condemned the terrorist attack in Orakzai tribal area and said: "My prayers go to the victims & their families".

"Let there be no doubt in anyone's mind that we will crush the terrorists, whatever it takes," he said in a tweet.

I am absolutely clear both these attacks are part of a planned campaign to create unrest in the country by those who do not want Pakistan to prosper. Let there be no doubt in anyone's mind that we will crush the terrorists, whatever it takes. https://t.co/AhPpjsUGEq Imran Khan (@ImranKhanPTI) November 23, 2018

Human Rights Minister Shireen Mazari blamed the the US failure in Afghanistan for the attack and warned Pakistan to be prepared for more such incidents.

She condemned the horrific terror attack.

"As the US fails in Afghanistan, Pakistan should be prepared for fallout and we must ensure greater security for our tribal areas especially protection of our people," she tweeted.

Condemn the horrific terror attack in Orakzai tribal area - 25 people killed and 35 injured. Toll could rise. As the US fails in Afghanistan Pak shd be prepared for fallout and we must ensure greater security for our tribal areas especially esp protection of our ppl. Shireen Mazari (@ShireenMazari1) November 23, 2018

No group claimed responsibility of the attack but the Taliban militants often carry out such attacks.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa police are on high alert following the Orakzai blast and a separate attack on the Chinese Consulate in Karachi on Friday morning.

"Our enemies are not happy with peace in the province," provincial Chief Minister Mehmood Khan said after the attack.

It was the second attack on Friday as security forces foiled a bid by militants to enter the Chinese consulate in Karachi and killed three attackers.

In 2011, 30 people including 10 cops, were killed and over 50 injured when a suicide bomber rammed his explosive-laden van into the building of the Communication and Works Department.

Orakzai, a terror hotbed, is one of the seven semi-autonomous tribal regions of Pakistan which has a porous border with Afghanistan.

Read more on Pakistan:

3 terrorists, 2 cops killed after attack on Chinese consulate in Karachi, Pakistan

Imran Khan invites Navjot Sidhu for Kartarpur Sahib corridor ceremony

====== 403 ========

MEET THE KARACHI POLICEWOMAN WHO FOILED TERRORIST ATTACK ON CHINESE CONSULATE

Suhai Aziz Talpur led the security operation that foiled the brazen attack by members of the Baloch Liberation Army

When three suicide bombers targetted the Chinese consulate in Karachi, Pakistan this morning, policemen were quick to respond to the situation and stop them before they could enter the building. The team gunned down the terrorists in a close-fought encounter and the person leading this operation was a woman -- Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Suhai Aziz Talpur.

According to Pakistan's Geo TV, Suhaee Aziz was the first to react to the reports of gunshots and explosions near the Chinese consulate in the upscale Clifton area.

The explosion was heard around 9.30 in the morning and Suhai was the first to reach the spot. She led the team and managed to kill all the three terrorists in a two-hour long encounter. Two policemen were also killed in the attack.

Suhai Aziz is the first woman ASP from lower Sindh. Later, Sindh chief minister also praised the braveheart. "Suhaee Aziz, you have set an example of bravery. These are the women who are ahead of everyone," CM Murad Ali Shah was quoted as saying by Geo TV.

People on Twitter also appreciated her act, calling her an inspiration.

"Who says women are weak. Lady ASP Suhaee Aziz played important role in today's CT operation by Karachi police. She immediately reached the spot and promptly responded to terrorists. Well done!" wrote Khalid Farooq, Inspector General of Punjab Police.

Who says women are weak . Lady ASP Suhai Aziz played imp role in today’s CT operation by Karachi police . She immediately reached the spot & promptly responded to terrorists . Well done ! pic.twitter.com/J4WZxxn9Wk Kh khalid Farooq (@Kkf50) November 23, 2018

"Proud," said a Twitter user.

ASP Suhai Aziz lead the operation against terrorist attack on #ChineseConsulate and stopped them.

Proud pic.twitter.com/lfydT39I43 Hamza Ali Amjad (@HamzaAliAmjad_) November 23, 2018

"Salute to Sindh Police and SSP Unofficial: ASP Suhai Aziz Talpur for saving the days (sic)," wrote another user.

Salute to Sindh Police and SSP Unofficial: ASP Suhai Aziz Talpur for saving the days. #Pakistan #Karachi #Police https://t.co/qSDB5Rswj0 Muhammad Bilal (@muhammad_bilal) November 23, 2018

WAS ONCE SHUNNED BY RELATIVES

Suhai Aziz Talpur became the first woman from lower Sindh to join the police ASP rank in 2013. In an interview to a Pakistan daily, she had revealed how her relatives had shunned her and her parents because she was getting an education.

"When my parents decided to enrol me at a school, most of our relatives started taunting my family. So much so, that my family had to leave our village and move to a nearby town," she had said.

"But the moment I cleared my Central Superior Services [CSS] exams and was told that I would be joining the police department as an ASP, the same people who taunted us started approaching me by claiming to be my long-lost relatives. This is the power of education and being a female, I am proud to have this power," she was quoted as saying in a Facebook post shared by UN Women Pakistan in 2017.

WATCH | Terrorists target Chinese consulate in Karachi

====== 404 ========

INDIAN-ORIGIN MAN JAILED IN SINGAPORE FOR MOLESTING FLIGHT ATTENDANT

About an hour before landing, the accused approached the woman and molested her. (Representational image)

A 34-year-old Indian-origin man based in Australia has been jailed for three weeks in Singapore for molesting a cabin crew member on board a Singapore-bound flight, a media report said today.

Paranjape Niranjan Jayant, who works for a logistics firm, pleaded guilty to two charges of molestation of the 25-year-old flight attendant in August and had one charge taken into consideration for sentencing.

During the eight-hour flight from Sydney to Singapore, Jayant approached the flight attendant a few times to ask for her phone number, but she ignored him.

The business class passenger on board a Scoot flight also caressed the attendant's left hip, 'The Straits Times' reported.

"Subsequently, during the flight, the accused went up to approach the victim at the front galley a few times to request the victim's phone number. The victim ignored these requests," said Deputy Public Prosecutor James Chew.

The attendant moved away from him and he told her she was beautiful before returning to his seat. About an hour before landing, Jayant approached the woman and molested her, the report said.

The woman immediately alerted her supervisor. She later lodged a report at the Changi Airport Terminal 2 police post.

Jayant, who was unrepresented, told District Judge Lim Tse Haw that he was intoxicated when he committed the offence and added, "I can't handle my drink".

He also said he was remorseful and pleaded for leniency.

For each count of molestation, he could have been jailed for up to two years and fined.

ALSO READ | Man arrested for trafficking over 500 girls from Bangaldesh to Mumbai

ALSO WATCH | Denied booze, drunk Irish woman abuses and spits at Air India crew

====== 405 ========

25 KILLED IN MARKET BLAST IN PAKISTAN'S HANGU

Pakistani troops move in the compound of Chinese Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan, Friday, Nov. 23 (Photo: AP)

At least 25 people were killed and around as many injured in a bomb blast in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan on Friday, Geo News reported.

According to latest reports, the explosion took place near an imambargah in Kalaya Bazaar of Orakzai tribal district in Hangu.

The nature of the blast is unknown as of yet. Security sources said that a rescue and search operation was underway in the area.

"Our enemies are not happy with peace in the province," Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Mehmood Khan said after the attack.

The blast occurred around the same time as three attackers attempted to storm the Chinese Consulate in the southern port city of Karachi in an unrelated incident in which two police officials and three terrorists were killed.

The Karachi attack was claimed by the ethnic insurgent Baloch Liberation Army.

With inputs from agencies

READ MORE | 3 terrorists, 2 cops killed after attack on Chinese consulate in Karachi, Pakistan

ALSO READ | War over credit for green light to Kartarpur Corridor

ALSO READ | China says will surely help Pakistan in financial crisis

WATCH VIDEO | In Depth: The growing Pakistan-China friendship

====== 406 ========

FORCE ONE: HOW MAHARASHTRA POLICE'S COMMANDO UNIT HAS EVOLVED OVER THE YEARS

It's the 10th anniversary of 26/11 Mumbai attacks and nine years since Force One was formed for urban counter-terrorism operations. First time since its inception, India Today took a close look at how the force has evolved over the years. Currently, under Maharashtra Director General, it's always ready to tackle an armed terror attack in important cities of Maharashtra.

Headquartered in Mumbai, this special force absorbs only 4-5 per cent of total applicants in state police force who apply for it that too after rigorous training. All the men in the force have voluntarily opted for it. As the work is taxing the team comprises of young men. "The upper age for entry in this force is 28 years for constabulary staff and 35 years for officers. They stay in the force for 3-5 years max, in exceptional cases some of the officers are retained as trainers. There a financial incentive in the force compared to normal police service," said a senior official from Maharashtra Police.

Training

The duration of training has been withheld for security reasons, but one has to undergo rigorous fitness training, which includes unarmed combat skills, endurance runs and physical toughness. Firing skills, obstacle course and various kinds of intervention training are given. What makes it fool-proof is a performance test which takes place frequently to assess the commandos at regular interval. Given the nature of work, commandos keep low-profile in public life and don't socialise with civilians.

"Since our inception in 2009, we are still evolving. We have in-built training infrastructure like firing range and training grounds. We are consistently performing well in All India Police Commando Competition in which all central paramilitary forces take part," said a senior officer.

When asked about Force One not being used in nine years since its inception the officer added, "not all forces are used often. That doesn't mean they are not required. We will cross the bridge when we get there."



READ ALSO: 26/11 Mumbai attack anniversary: When LeT trained Ajmal Kasab on how to fish

READ ALSO: Don't need surgical strike to stop another 26/11, have many options: Army chief Bipin Rawat



WATCH: Army better prepared to tackle 26/11-like attacks, says General Bipin Rawat

====== 407 ========

LAWYERS WHO DEFENDED AJMAL KASAB IN HC YET TO GET THEIR FEES FROM MAHARASHTRA GOVT

A notification about their appointment was issued on June 8, 2010 after Ajmal Kasab expressed his desire to contest the verdict of the trial court sentencing him to death in the Bombay High Court. (Above) Advocate Farhana Shah being escorted by cops outside the HC. (Photo: Reuters file)

Two lawyers who defended Ajmal Kasab in the 2008 Mumbai attack case on the directions of the Bombay High Court are yet to get their legal fees from the Maharashtra government.

While the state government says they have not submitted any bills, the lawyers say that state prosecutors are not supposed to.

The two lawyers -- Amin Solkar and Farhana Shah -- were tasked with defending Kasab, who was later hanged to death on November 21, 2012 for killing over 166 people in Mumbai, by the Maharashtra State Legal Services Department after they were nominated by then acting Chief Justice of Bombay High Court JN Patel.

A notification about their appointment was issued on June 8, 2010 after Kasab had expressed his desire to contest the verdict of the trial court sentencing him to death in the Bombay High Court.

ALSO READ | What happened on November 26, 2008

According to the notification, Solkar was to receive remuneration equivalent to what is sanctioned for a public prosecutor, who conducts a death confirmation appeal, and Shah was to receive fees on par with an assistant prosecutor.

Keeping in tradition with the fairness of the trial, the law allows for appointment of a lawyer from the legal services department if accused is unable to do so.

Solkar and Shah had argued for Kasab in the Bombay High Court against his death sentence almost on a day-to-day basis for nearly nine months before it confirmed the death sentence on the lone gunman, who sprayed bullets barbarically on November 26, 2008.

His conviction was upheld by the Supreme Court a year later and he was hanged to death in 2012 inside the Yerwada prison in Pune.

When contacted by PTI, both Solkar and Shah said they are yet to receive their fees.

Both the lawyers said they had given the case priority as the high court was hearing it on a day-to-day basis from 11am to 5pm.

ALSO READ | 26/11 Mumbai attack anniversary: When LeT trained Ajmal Kasab on how to fish

"I do not know why the state government has not made any efforts to pay us our fees. It has been seven years since the judgment was delivered by the high court. The Supreme Court confirmed the death penalty and Kasab is also dead. But we are still waiting (for the fees)," Solkar told PTI.

He said he was contemplating legal action to get his dues cleared from the state government.

"We are only asking for what is legally due to us. The law says every accused should get a fair trial. To ensure this, we were appointed to defend Kasab... then why this delay in paying us our fees," Solkar said.

Shah, on the other hand, says she has given up hopes that she will get her remuneration for appearing in the case.

"I have now given up. I consider it as a pro bono case (a case taken up voluntarily and without payment)," Shah, who had defended several accused in the 1993 Mumbai serial bomb blasts case, told PTI.

While the exact amount per hearing was not known, sources in the know put the figure somewhere between Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per day.

ALSO READ | Don't need surgical strike to stop another 26/11, have many options: Army chief Bipin Rawat

An official from the state government's law and judiciary department said the government would pay the fees only after the two lawyers submit their bills.

To this, both Solkar and Shah said the need to submit bills does not arise at all as they were appointed by the high court and a notification to this effect was issued by the government.

"Does the government ask for bills from the public prosecutor before giving them their remuneration?" Solkar said.

Meanwhile, Abbas Kazmi, a lawyer who had defended Kasab before trial judge ML Tahalayani, claims he has been paid by the government for his services.

"My remuneration was given by the government soon after the completion of the trial," Kazmi said, adding he got his fees without having to submit any bills to the government.

Ten Pakistani terrorists had launched a dastardly attack on key locations in the city on the night of November 26, 2008. The terrorists killed 166 people and injured over 600 others.

The places that were attacked included the CST railway station, the Taj Hotel, the Trident Hotel, Cafe Leopold and Chabad House at Colaba in South Mumbai.

The attacks lasted three days. While nine of the terrorists were killed during the siege, Kasab was caught alive by the Mumbai Police at Marine Drive in South Mumbai.

ALSO WATCH | Army better prepared to tackle 26\11-like attacks, says General Bipin Rawat

====== 408 ========

WE LEARNT A LOT IN THESE YEARS: NSG'S MUMBAI CHIEF ON 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF 26/11 MUMBAI TERROR ATTACKS

NSG has kept itself prepared for all kinds of terror attacks.

The National Security Guard (NSG) played a major role in countering 26/11 terror attack. It was after that attack in 2008 that a NSG hub was established in Mumbai. The NSG has learnt a lot in these 10 years. How a counter-terror agency like NSG deals with everything, Commanding Officer, Col Hemant Sahni, NSG Mumbai tells us in a exclusive interview.

Excerpts from the interview.

How better prepared is NSG in terms of countering terror attacks in Mumbai?

A lot has changed in these 10 years. NSG has also learned a lot. The unit has kept itself prepared for all kind of terrorist attacks. Over the years our response time has decreased drastically.

The way terror attacks are taking place is also changing. Do we keep ourselves updated about these attacks world over and prepare for it?

We keep reading about terror attacks and keep a close watch on patterns of attack across the globe. We have upgraded our equipments. We are always fully prepared. In fact, before terrorists think what they will do, we keep ourselves ready for any response.

Is there an improvement in inter-agency coordination?

Inter-agency synergy has increased a lot. We do a lot of excercise on ground in which we work along with different agencies and we are happy to say that all agencies are doing good work. Hence, the inter-agency cooperation is good.

How has NSG expanded in the last 10 years?

After 2008 we felt that we should be at sensitive locations and we are there today. Adequate force is there which can respond to such situations. Our weapons, equipment and training compliments these infrastructure.

How has Maharashtra developed its counter-terrorism capabilities over the years?

Maharashtra has developed Force One unit. We train together, learn together and support each other. They too are prepared to take up changes arising out of terror attacks.

Would like to give any message from NSG on the 10th anniversary?

I will just say that keep faith in us if there is terror attack, we will be there to secure the country with same bravery each time.

====== 409 ========

26/11 MUMBAI ATTACK ANNIVERSARY: WHEN LET TRAINED AJMAL KASAB ON HOW TO FISH

Kasab was not informed by the LeT why he was being prepared as a mariner and as a fishermer. (File photo)

Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) gave "sea training" to 26/11 terror attack convict Ajmal Kasab in the high seas of "Karachi", revealed a new book "Fragile Frontiers: The Secret History of Mumbai Terror Attacks".

The sea training, as per the book written by historian Saroj Kumar Rath, also included "how to fish", something that made Kasab think that "he had got a job and he could earn a respectable living".

"He (Kasab) was not informed by the LeT why he was being prepared as a mariner and as a fishermen," quoted the book from what Kasab told during his interrogation.

According to the book, fearing a leak, the sea route assault plan was kept secret by the top LeT commanders -- Hafiz Saeed, Zaki-ur Rehman Lakhvi, Abu Hamza and others -- until November 2008.

It also said that before the D-day, the LeT tried to send attackers to Mumbai twice, but "failed on both occasions".

"In September 2008, the boat carrying terrorists hit a rock in the sea and the attackers almost drowned before their handlers rescued them. The other failed attempt was on 7 November 2008, when an alarmed captain of an Indian boat refused to surrender to the LeT and fled," it added.

The book, in one of its essay titled 'Ajmal Kasab: The LeT side of the story', recorded that the 2-year training of the recruits for the 26/11 attacks was a "joint responsibility of the LeT and the ISI".

"Each terrorist had to undergo a series of training and indoctrination sessions organized by the LeT. All the 10 terrorists recruited for the Mumbai attacks had received four stages of training and after that, received sea training as well," read the book.

As part of the sea training the recruits were taught how to read maps, how to measure the depth of the sea, how to use GPS for the sea route, how to use the nets of fishermen and how to operate a ship.

"They were also trained on how to use a fisherman's net just to mislead the Indian navy personnel in case of an enquiry."

Also, other than the sea training, the four stage training received by the ten terrorists under the LeT command was: Daura-e-Sufa (20 Days' Preliminary Training), Daura-e-Ama (21 Days' Combat Course), Daura-e-Khaas (75 Days' Advanced Combat Course), Daura-e-Ribat (30 Days' Training on Intelligence Agencies).

"Kasab received (Daura-e-Khaas) training during May-July 2008. Skills like how to open and close Kalashnikovs, firing of a gun... and how to survive 60 hours without food and still climb a mountain with a heavy load were taught.

"The Mumbai attacks continued for 62 hours and crossing the LoC in Kashmir would take 60 hours as well," it said.

Besides delving into the interrogation and confession report of Kasab, the book, also tried to answer significant questions like "Why do young boys like Kasab become terrorists in Pakistan? What is the root cause of terrorism? Or what motivates them to follow a violent lifestyle?".

Kasab, the lone terrorist captured alive after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, was hanged at Yerawada jail in Pune on November 21, 2012 after the then-president Pranab Mukherjee rejected his mercy petition.

ALSO READ | Hafiz Saeed's aide in Delhi a frequent visitor to Pakistan: Sources

WATCH | Army better prepared to tackle 26/11-like attacks, says General Bipin Rawat

====== 410 ========

MOSSAC FONSECA DIDN'T KNOW 75 PER CENT OF CLIENTS NAMED IN PANAMA PAPERS

Mossack Fonseca did not know in most of the cases as to who was benefiting from its services. (Photo: ICIJ)

After the first Panama Papers leak hit the headlines across the world in 2016, the Panamanian law firm at the centre of the secret investment business found that it had no knowledge of three of every four clients. International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) found this out while examining the fresh leaked documents.

The employees of Mossack Fonseca discovered the previous leak on March 9, 2016. The leaked data contained 1.15 crore documents of emails, contracts, bank statements pertaining to Mossack Fonseca clients that included international celebrities, oligarchs and criminals.

The leak had an immediate impact on the working of Mossack Fonseca which suddenly shifted its focus from daily business of floating shell companies in tax havens to finding who its clients were.

"Mossack Fonseca employees frantically emailed bankers, accountants and lawyers - the professionals who had hired the firm to set up shell companies for wealthy clients who wanted to remain anonymous - in an attempt to close the gaps in its recordkeeping. Those intermediaries responded with panic and fury," ICIJ writes in its report.

One intermediary between Mossack Fonseca and the clients was Nicole Didi, a Swiss wealth management adviser. Didi wrote back to Mossack Fonseca in March 2017: "THE CLIENT DISAPPEARED! I CAN NOT FIND HIM ANYMORE!!!!!!!"

The fresh documents reveal that Mossack Fonseca couldn't identify tens of thousands of owners of companies it had registered in opaque, low-tax jurisdictions.

Following the Panama Papers leak, Mossack Fonseca couldn't identify owners of more than 70 percent of 28,500 active companies in the British Virgin Islands, which has been its busiest offshore hub for incorporating shell companies.

The law firm didn't know who owned 75 percent of 10,500 active shell companies in Panama itself, the ICIJ reported on the basis of its analysis of 12 lakh fresh documents.

====== 411 ========

FED LIFTS RATES, SEES FASTER PACE OF HIKES IN DONALD TRUMP'S FIRST YEAR

The US Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday and signaled a faster pace of increases in 2017 as central bankers adapted to the incoming Trump administration's promises of tax cuts, spending and deregulation.

The increase in the federal funds rate to a range of between 0.50 per cent and 0.75 per cent was widely expected. But the prospect of a brisker monetary tightening contributed to a selloff in shorter-dated US Treasuries and stocks.

In a news conference following the unanimous rate decision, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Donald Trump's election had put the central bank under a "cloud of uncertainty" and already prompted some policymakers to shift their view of what's to come.

ALSO READ | Donald Trump says US not necessarily bound by 'one China' policy

"All the (Federal Open Market Committee) participants recognise that there is considerable uncertainty about how economic policies may change and what effect they may have on the economy," Yellen said.

Though Trump's inauguration is still a month away, she said "some of the participants" had begun shifting their assumptions about fiscal policy. At least five of 17 Fed policymakers appeared to have boosted their interest rate outlook since September, according to the new "dot plot" of rate projections.

The Fed chief was peppered with questions about the president-elect, refusing to comment on his penchant for tweeting about companies or to give advice on how any fiscal, tax or trade plan should be structured.

"I am not going to offer the incoming president advice about how to conduct himself," Yellen said.

Trump, critical of Yellen during the campaign and considered likely to replace her when her term ends in early 2018, had not by late afternoon issued any comment about the Fed's rate decision, in line with his predecessors' practice.

Yields on shorter-dated Treasuries hit their highest levels in more than five years and US stocks fell in choppy action. The dollar rose against a basket of currencies. Gold hit its lowest level in more than 10 months and oil prices also declined.

Partly as a result of the changes anticipated under Trump, the Fed sees three rate hikes in 2017 instead of the two foreseen as of September.

Yellen called that a "very modest adjustment" driven also by strong job gains and evidence of faster inflation. Wednesday's rate increase should be "understood as a reflection of the confidence we have in the progress the economy has made," she said.

TRUMP IMPACT

Fresh economic forecasts, the first since Trump won the Nov. 8 election on promises of tax cuts and increased infrastructure spending, showed policymakers shifting their outlook to one of slightly faster growth, lower unemployment and inflation just under the Fed's 2 per cent target.

The projected three rate increases next year would be followed by another three increases in both 2018 and 2019 before the rate levels off at a long-run "normal" 3.0 per cent. That is slightly higher than three months ago, a sign the Fed feels the economy is still gaining traction.

Markets and the Fed appeared to be close on their rate outlooks, with Fed futures markets pricing in at least two and possibly three hikes in 2017.

The Fed's policy statement "didn't mention the fiscal stimulus but typically their aggressiveness does indicate that there's a little more confidence that they can get away with three hikes next year," said Aaron Kohli, interest rate strategist at BMO Capital Markets.

The central bank continued to describe that pace as "gradual," keeping policy still slightly loose and supporting some further improvement in the job market. It sees unemployment falling to 4.5 per cent next year and remaining at that level, which is considered to be close to full employment. The economy is projected to grow 2.1 per cent in 2017, up from a previous forecast of 2.0 per cent.

US bond yields had already begun moving higher following Trump's victory and as expectations of the Fed rate increase solidified. All 120 economists in a recent Reuters poll had expected a rate hike on Wednesday.

In the weeks following the election, Fed policymakers have said Trump's proposals could push the economy into a higher gear in the short run. Even though the details of the Republican businessman's plans remain uncertain, Wednesday marked a rare case in which the Fed moved its interest rate outlook higher in the era after the 2007-2009 financial crisis.

Risks to the outlook remain "roughly balanced" between factors that could slow or accelerate the economy beyond what the central bank anticipates, the Fed said, no change from its assessment last month.

The rate increase was the first since last December and only the second since the crisis, when the Fed cut rates to near zero and deployed other tools such as massive bond purchases to stabilise the economy.

====== 412 ========

ASIAN STOCKS SLUMP AS 'FEAR FACTOR' PUSHES INVESTORS TO SAFE HAVEN ASSETS

Asian stock markets fell sharply on Tuesday after banking and financial stocks were hit by steep decline globally. While Japanese Nikkei 225 dropped by 4.48 per cent, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 saw a free fall of 2.6 per cent.

The jump in the yen piled further pressure on Japan's Nikkei which sank 3.4 percent. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.8 percent, and would have been lower if not for holidays in many centers, Reuters reported.

After a lustreless 2015, this year has started with continued pain in the stock market. Concern over the stability of the banking stocks has pushed the investors to venture into safe haven assets.

"The 'fear factor' in markets has morphed from being about an emerging market hard-landing and collapsing oil prices to being about the extent of the slowdown in the developed world and the ability of central banks to reflate asset values yet again," said analysts at Citi in a note.

The Bank of Japan's recent shift to negative rates has fuelled concerns that ever-more exotic monetary policy is rapidly reaching the point of diminishing returns.

Yet murmurings about the risk of recession in the United Sates has also led investors to wager the Federal Reserve will have to slow, or suspend altogether, plans to normalize rates.

Futures markets have priced out any chance of a hike in March and imply a funds rate of just 0.45 per cent by December . The current effective funds rate is 0.38 percent.

With more and more sovereign bonds paying negative rates, the relative cost of holding gold has seemed less and less of a burden. The yellow metal reached its strongest since June at $1,200.60 an ounce, to last trade at $1,188.

Oil initially took a hit on worries U.S. crude stockpiles had reached new peaks, even as a Saudi-Venezuela meeting to pare supplies showed little progress. Brent futures lost 85 cents on Monday to end at $33.21.

Early Tuesday, U.S. crude had recovered some ground to be up 49 cents at $30.18.

ALSO READ:

China stocks up after circuit breaker axed, yuan fixed higher

Sensex cracks below 25k-mark after 4 months, tumbles over 500 points

====== 413 ========

US FED RAISES INTEREST RATES FOR FIRST TIME SINCE 2006, ASIAN STOCKS TRADE HIGHER

The Federal Reserve hiked interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade on Wednesday, signaling faith that the US economy had largely overcome the wounds of the 2007-2009 financial crisis.

The US central bank's policy-setting committee raised the range of its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to between 0.25 per cent and 0.50 per cent, ending a lengthy debate about whether the economy was strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs.

"The Committee judges that there has been considerable improvement in labor market conditions this year, and it is reasonably confident that inflation will rise over the medium term to its 2 per cent objective," the Fed said in its policy statement, which was adopted unanimously.

The Fed made clear that the rate hike was a tentative beginning to a "gradual" tightening cycle, and that in deciding its next move it would put a premium on monitoring inflation, which remains mired below target.

"In light of the current shortfall of inflation from 2 per cent, the Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward its inflation goal. The Committee expects that economic conditions will evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate," the Fed said.

New economic projections from Fed policymakers were largely unchanged from September, with unemployment anticipated to fall to 4.7 per cent next year and economic growth at 2.4 per cent.

The statement and its promise of a gradual path represents a compromise between those who have been ready to raise rates for months and those who feel the economy is still at risk.

"The Fed is going out of its way to assure markets that, by embarking on a "gradual" path, this will not be your traditional interest rate cycle," said Mohamed El-Erian, Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz.

The dollar firmed modestly after the rate rise. Based on interest rate futures markets, traders expected a second hike in April.

The median projected target interest rate for 2016 remained 1.375 per cent, implying four quarter-point rate hikes next year.

To edge that rate from its current near-zero level to between 0.25 percent and 0.50 per cent, the Fed said it would set the interest it pays banks on excess reserves at 0.50 per cent, and said it would offer up to $2 trillion in reverse repurchase agreements, an aggressive figure that shows its resolve to pull rates higher.

Financial markets had expected the rate hike, bolstered by recent U.S. data showing job growth continuing at a strong pace.

A December 9 Reuters poll showed the likelihood of a hike on Wednesday was 90 per cent, with economists forecasting the federal funds rate to be 1.0 percent to 1.25 per cent by the end of 2016 and 2.25 percent by the end of 2017.

The rate hike sets off an immediate test of new financial tools designed by the New York Fed for just this occasion, as well as a likely reshuffling of global capital as the reality of rising US rates sets in.

Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) shortly after the announcement that the US Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates on December 16, 2015. Reuters Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) shortly after the announcement that the US Federal Reserve had hiked interest rates on December 16, 2015. Reuters

The impact on business and household borrowing costs is unclear. One of the issues policymakers will watch closely in coming days is how long-term mortgage rates, consumer loans and other forms of credit react to a rate hike meant not to slow an economic recovery but nurse monetary policy back to a more normal footing.

The Fed emphasised it would move gingerly into its tightening cycle. That was enough to produce a unanimous vote on the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, as even members who had argued publicly for delaying a rate hike delay went along with Fed Chair Janet Yellen and other policymakers.

Asia stocks up; oil takes a spill

Asian stock markets rose on Thursday investors chose to take a hike in US interest rates as a mark of confidence in the world's largest economy, though the good cheer did not extend to oil where oversupply again pressured prices.

The Federal Reserve's 25-basis-point increase was almost a decade in the making and easily one of the most telegraphed in history. So there was some relief that, after months of waiting and several false starts, the move was finally done and dusted.

Nikkei futures pointed to an opening gain of over 2 per cent, on top of Tuesday's 2.6 per cent advance.

Australian stocks rose 0.7 per cent, while MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan firmed 0.3 percent in early action.

On Wall Street, the Dow ended Wednesday with gains of 1.28 percent, while the S&P 500 rose 1.45 per cent and the Nasdaq 1.52 per cent.

Markets were soothed by Fed Chair Janet Yellen's assurance that future tightening would be "gradual" and dependent on inflation finally moving higher as long forecasted.

The rate forecasts, or dot points, from Fed members were a little higher than many expected with 100 basis points of hikes pencilled in for next year and a terminal rate of 3.5 percent.

Fed fund futures <0#FF:> dipped in response, yet the December 2016 contract implies a rate of only 83 basis points, well below the 1.25 to 1.5 percent favoured by the central bank.

Moves in the Treasury market were also modest. While yields on two-year notes hit their highest since April 2010, they were only up four basis points in all at 1.009 percent.

That did widen the premium over German yields to 132 basis points, the fattest since late 2006 and a positive draw for the U.S. dollar.

The dollar added 0.35 per cent to 99.561 against a basket of major currencies, but is having trouble clearing stiff resistance around the 100.00 mark.

The euro was down at $1.0886 having fallen from $1.1000 in the wake of the Fed's statement, while the dollar edged up to 122.38 yen.



====== 414 ========

NO COMPETITION WITH INDIA IN AFRICA, SAYS CHINA

Prime Minister Narendra Modi (centre) poses with the head of states of African countries during the inaugural session of the India-Africa Forum Summit in New Delhi, India, October 29, 2015. (Reuters/Adnan Abidi)

China said on Friday that it did not see competition with India in Africa as New Delhi this week stepped up its engagement with the continent hosting the biggest ever India-Africa Summit.

Watch video: Will PM Modi's mega Africa outreach advance India's interests?



As more than 40 heads of state and government and leaders from all 54 countries on the continent visited New Delhi with Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing $ 10 billion concessional credit, India's outreach has been seen in some quarters as a belated attempt to catch up with China's rising economic influence in Africa.

China's trade with the continent reached $ 222 billion last year, more than three times India's $70 billion. Much of China's trade is backed by state-run enterprises with financial muscle, contrasting India's presence which is dominated by private companies who find it difficult to compete with China's state-backed behemoths.

China on Friday said it didn't see India's engagement this week as competition. "There are reports circulating about competition between China and India. The fact is that China and India have a sound relationship because we share common interests and we have sound coordination mechanisms," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang told reporters. "In Africa, we welcome international commitment including from India to help Africa achieve long-term, sustainable and independent development."

China for its part will be boosting its already considerable presence on the continent in December in a China Africa Summit that will be held in Johannesburg, with President Xi Jinping set to travel. Lu said ahead of the summit China was open to "working with the international community to make new contributions to Africa's development".

====== 415 ========

FLIPKART ROPES IN EXECUTIVES FROM AMAZON, GOOGLE AND MICROSOFT

Flipkart has taken on board former Amazon, Google and Microsoft senior technology executives to give a further push to its fast-expanding business operations.

The company announced on Tuesday that it has appointed Amazon's Dan Rawson as head of customer logistics and supply chain ecosystems while Google's Ravi Byakod has been appointed director of engineering - accounting and Anand Lakshminarayanan from Microsoft will take over as head of product management for digital goods and services.

"The three executives, with significant experience at Amazon, Google and Microsoft, are the latest in a series of senior technology experts from the world's best technology companies to join Flipkart's rapidly growing enterprise in Bangalore," the company said in a statement.

The firm added that Rawson will oversee all aspects of customer delivery solutions, leading product, business, and operations teams to advance the way Flipkart uses technology to expand delivery while maintaining a consistently excellent experience for consumers.

A former Captain in the US Marines, Rawson joins Flipkart from Amazon, Seattle, where he was general manager of fulfilment in North America. In that role, he led a team responsible for managing all aspects of an operation that annually moves tens of billions of dollars' worth of goods from third-party sellers to Amazon customers, Flipkart added.

As director of engineering-accounting, Byakod will lead accounting technology for Flipkart and will provide an accurate picture of the company's finances, the company said. Byakod spent more than nine years working for Google before joining Flipkart. Most recently, he served as head of engineering for Google for its works technology and solutions team, developing data warehouses, customer relationship management programmes and partner engineering solutions out of its headquarters in California.

On the appointment of Lakshminarayanan, Flipkart said that he will lead the expansion of the company's digital product offerings following the company's success as the leading online marketplace for physical goods. Lakshminarayanan has spent a year working for Microsoft in Hyderabad. Prior to that, he served as a group product manager at eBay in Seattle, Washington.

====== 416 ========

VOLKSWAGEN SAYS 11 MLN CARS HIT BY EMISSIONS SCANDAL, PROBES MULTIPLY

Volkswagen said it would set aside 6.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in its third-quarter accounts to help cover the costs of the biggest scandal in its 78-year-history, blowing a hole in analysts' profit forecasts.

Volkswagen AG said a scandal over falsified US vehicle emission tests could affect 11 million of its cars worldwide as investigations of its diesel models multiplied, heaping fresh pressure on CEO Martin Winterkorn.

Volkswagen has brought forward a meeting of senior supervisory board members to Tuesday evening from Wednesday, with Winterkorn's future on the line, a German newspaper reported, citing board sources.

The report, in the Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung followed an earlier story in the Tagesspiegel newspaper saying the board would replace 68-year-old Winterkorn with Matthias Mueller, the head of the automaker's Porsche sports car business.

A Volkswagen spokesman denied the Tagesspiegel report. Winterkorn did not mention his future in a video message posted on the company's website in which he repeated his apology for the scandal.

But a key Winterkorn ally withheld public support for the chief executive.

"I don't want to preempt the upcoming intense deliberations and will not comment on details or any consequences," Stephan Weil, head of the German state of Lower Saxony, told reporters in Hanover when asked about Winterkorn's future.

Weil, a supervisory board member representing Volkswagen's second-largest shareholder, earlier this year helped Winterkorn fend off a challenge to his leadership by long-time chairman Ferdinand Piech and earlier this month backed the CEO's contract extension.

Shares in the world's biggest carmaker by sales plunged almost 20 percent on Monday after it admitted using software that deceived US regulators measuring toxic emissions in some of its diesel cars.

The stock tumbled another 20 percent to a four-year low on Tuesday after some countries in Europe and Asia said they would launch investigations themselves. Preference shares were down 19.7 percent at 106.1 euros at 1500 GMT.

At the lowest point, the declines in the preference and ordinary shares wiped more than $30 billion off the company's market value.

Volkswagen said it would set aside 6.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in its third-quarter accounts to help cover the costs of the biggest scandal in its 78-year-history, blowing a hole in analysts' profit forecasts.

It also warned that amount could rise, saying diesel cars with so-called Type EA 189 engines built into about 11 million Volkswagen models worldwide had shown a "noticeable deviation" in emission levels between testing and road use.

The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) said on Friday Volkswagen could face penalties of up to $18 billion for cheating emissions tests. The carmaker also faces lawsuits and damage to its reputation that could hit sales, and media reports have said the US Department of Justice has opened a criminal inquiry into the matter.

In addition, New York and other state attorneys general are forming a group to probe the scandal, a spokesman for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.

The probe would focus on potential violations of environmental and consumer fraud laws, the spokesman said.

The crisis has also sent shockwaves through Germany, with Chancellor Angela Merkel calling for "complete transparency" from a company long seen as a symbol of the country's engineering excellence.

Winterkorn was due to have his contract extended at a supervisory board meeting on Friday but is now facing questions over how the scandal came about.

Volkswagen, which for several years has been airing US TV commercials lauding its "clean diesel" cars, was challenged by authorities as far back as 2014 over tests showing emissions exceeded California state and US federal limits.

The company attributed the excess emissions to "various technical issues" and "unexpected" real-world conditions. It was not until the EPA and the California Air Resources Board threatened to withhold certification for its 2016 diesel models that Volkswagen in early September admitted its wrongdoing.

"Winterkorn either knew of proceedings in the U.S. or it was not reported to him," Evercore ISI analyst Arndt Ellinghorst said. "In the first instance, he must step down immediately. In the second, one needs to ask why such a far-reaching violation was not reported to the top and then things will get tough too."

Porsche's Mueller was promoted to Volkswagen's executive board on March 1 and was previously its head product strategist. As a management board member of family-owned Porsche SE , he is also close to the Porsche-Piech clan that has a controlling stake in Volkswagen.

'Totally screwed up'

Winterkorn has built Volkswagen into one of the world's top-selling brands since he took the helm in 2007, with brands ranging from budget Seats and Skodas to premium Audis and top-end Lamborghinis.

But he has also faced criticism for a centralised management style which some analysts say has hampered the company's efforts to address long-standing underperformance in North America.

Workers in Wolfsburg, where Volkswagen employs over 50,000 people, were dismayed by the damage to the company's image. "If Winterkorn knew of the manipulation, then he must go," said one staffer who works in human resources at the plant.

Late on Monday, Volkswagen's U.S. chief Michael Horn said the company had "totally screwed up" and promised to make amends.

There have been no suggestions so far that other carmakers have engaged in the same practices as Volkswagen. Germany's BMW and Daimler have said the accusations against Volkswagen did not apply to them.

But shares in those companies as well as rivals including Peugeot, Renault and Fiat Chrysler fell on Tuesday amid signs regulators across the world will step up scrutiny of vehicle tests, which environmentalists have long criticised for exaggerating fuel-saving and emissions results.

The EPA said on Monday it would widen its investigation to other automakers, and French Finance Minister Michel Sapin said on Tuesday an EU-wide inquiry was needed too.

Germany's Transport Ministry said it would send an investigative commission to study whether cars built at Volkswagen's headquarters complied with German and European emissions guidelines. Italy asked VW to prove the cars sold in that country do not contain the "defeat devices" at the centre of the scandal, while Switzerland also said it would investigate Volkswagen's diesel vehicle emissions tests.

The European Commission said it was in contact with Volkswagen and U.S. authorities, and it was premature to say whether specific checks on the carmaker's vehicles were needed.

In Asia, South Korea's environment ministry said it would investigate 4,000 to 5,000 of Volkswagen's Jetta, Golf and Audi A3 vehicles produced in 2014 and 2015, and it could expand its probe to all German diesel cars if it found problems.

====== 417 ========

MONTHS AFTER MODI'S NRI OUTREACH, SBI STOPS CASH OPS IN SHANGHAI

SBI officials in Shanghai say the directive came from headquarters after a periodical review, and left the branch with little option but to stop the popular service. (Reuters)

The State Bank of India has said it will stop accepting cash transactions and cash remittances in its main branch in China, in Shanghai, starting October 1, only four months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's high-profile community reception in the city where he exhorted Non-Resident Indians to play a greater role in India's growth story.

An announcement from the bank on its website said that cash transactions "will not be entertained" with effect from October 1, 2015 "as per the direction from our Head Office".

SBI officials in Shanghai say the directive came from headquarters after a periodical review, and left the branch with little option but to stop the popular service. Officials said the bank would focus on corporate banking, as it in any case does not have a retail licence in China to serve locals.

However, the move to scale down its retail service has left Indians in the city who were dependent on the bank to send remittances home displeased, as this was among few avenues to send money to their relatives in India without paying high transfer costs.

"There are people like Indian chefs, and small traders, who needed the bank to send money home," said Tony Daryanani from Pune, who runs a popular tailoring business in Shanghai and has been living in the city for 15 years.

"Only in May, we had Prime Minister Narendra Modi come to Shanghai and tell people to help India grow and send money, and now they are telling NRIs they cannot accept money and are not opening accounts any more."

While officials say few people were using the service regularly and maintaining the service required manpower and investment that did not make economic sense, bank officials did acknowledge that the decision would inconvenience Indians in China, which they regretted.

An Indian resident in Shanghai who was using the bank to send money to his family said the move would also send a negative signal to NRIs in China about how India Inc. was looking at the future of economic ties with the country, coming months after Modi's high-profile visit, which included a community reception in Shanghai, pledged to uplift trade ties and economic engagement. "What message does this send to people," he asked, "who want to come to China and work here and start businesses, if they cannot using a major Indian bank to send money home?"

====== 418 ========

CONFIRMED: AMITABH BACHCHAN'S PINK TO GET TAMIL REMAKE

There has been much buzz and speculation regarding the Tamil remake of the film Pink. Earlier, there were reports that Ajith was acting in the Tamil remake, which would be directed by director H Vinoth.

The original film, which dealt with the issues of patriarchy and sexism, had Amitabh Bachchan in the lead role and turned out to be a hit in Hindi.

However, the rumours were quashed and it was said that Ajith and Vinoth are working on an entirely new film.

Now, it is confirmed that the film is indeed getting a Tamil version. Filmmaker Shoojit Sircar, the creative producer and writer, of the Hindi original version, said, "Yes, 'Pink' is being remade in Tamil. I don't think I will direct it. The team said they will show me the film once it is ready. As much as I love what Aniruddha did with Pink, I respect the fact that the makers in Tamil want to have their own interpretation of it."

It is still unclear whether Ajith will reprise the role of Amitabh Bachchan or another actor will be roped in for the film.

Ajith, who has wrapped up the shoot of Viswasam, is on a vacation with his family. Viswasam is all set to hit the screens on Pongal 2019. It will lock horns with Rajinikanth's Petta.

ALSO READ| Pink movie review: Amitabh Bachchan's POWERFUL message is unmissable

====== 419 ========

CRICKETER ASHWIN UNVEILS KANAA TRAILER, HOPES MORE WOMEN PLAY THE SPORT

The trailer of Arunraja Kamaraj's debut film Kanaa was launched by Indian cricketer Ashwin Ravichander. The film stars Aishwarya Rajesh in the lead role, who aspires to become an Indian cricketer.

Ashwin hopes that the film will inspire more girls across the country to take up the sport professionally.

Thrilled to launch the heart-warming trailer of my friend @Siva_Kartikeyan's #Kanaa, a sports drama based on Women's cricket.



I hope the movie inspires girls of our country to take up the sport professionally. Dear girls, it's time to dream big! https://t.co/HKDR5sdABw Ashwin Ravichandran (@ashwinravi99) November 25, 2018

The trailer shows the struggle of the heroine to become a professional cricketer. She fights hard to break the patriarchal barriers to pursue her dream.

Sathyaraj is playing the dad of Aishwarya in the film.

The other highlight of Kanaa is Siva Karthikeyan, who is making a brief appearance in the film. Siva is also the producer of the film.

One of his dialogues from the trailer is being well-received by the audience, who have called it 'very inspirational'.

ALSO READ| Kanaa to Mariyappan: Sports-based Tamil films to watch out for

====== 420 ========

DIPA KARMAKAR NEEDS GOLD AT WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS TO QUALIFY FOR OLYMPICS, SAYS COACH

Dipa Karmakar, after her win at Cottbus, said that her bronze felt like gold (@DipaKarmakar Photo)

Dipa Karmakar is making her final preparations for the 2019 World Championships in Stuttgart, and her coach Bisweswar Nandi says she needs to win nothing less than a gold to qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

Dipa made a strong start to her qualifying bid for the Tokyo Olympics by winning a bronze at the Artistic Gymnastics World Cup in Cottbus, Germany on Saturday.

"I didn't hope that she would do so well given the strong field, which had lot of medallists. But I'm satisfied with the way she performed. She had very less time to prepare for the event and she did very well. I made her cry a lot during the last few months. So very satisfied," Nandi told PTI from Cottbus.

"It is a good start but to qualify for the Olympics, she will have to win gold in the next 3-4 events of the world cup she participates in. Second or third position won't matter," he added.

The Cottbus meet is part of an eight-event qualifying system for the 2020 Games, under which a gymnast will make the cut based on their best three scores.

Read - Dipa Karmakar grabs bronze in vault event at Artistic Gymnastics World Cup

The three events where Dipa might participate next are World Cups in Baku, Melbourne and Doha.

Nandi said: "We haven't decided yet which would be those events. I alone can't take that decision. We will discuss with SAI, Sports Ministry and Gymnastic Federation of India (GFI) to take a call about the future events.

"But the main target for us is to do well at the World Championships in Germany next year. That is an event where even a 3rd or 4th place finish can earn you a berth at the Olympics. So that would be the main target for her," Nandi said.

On Saturday, Dipa scored an average of 14.316 on her two vaults. She was 0.412 adrift off the gold-medallist Rebecca Andrade, who finished with 14.728.

"Bronze medal in vault event to finish my campaign at 2018 Cottibus World Cup. It was overwhelming to compete against some of the best athletes in the world!! Aaj ye bronze bhi gold lag raha hai! (Today even the bronze feels like gold)," Dipa tweeted after her win.

Bronze medal in vault event

to finish my campaign at 2018 Cottibus World Cup. It was overwhelming to compete against some of the best athletes in the world!! Aaj ye bronze bhi gold lag raha hai! pic.twitter.com/WOZS3lSRZM Dipa Karmakar (@DipaKarmakar) November 24, 2018

After recovering from a knee surgery, Dipa had won her first medal at the World Cup at Turkey in July but her Asian Games was marred by injury when she had strained her knee again and missed the vault final and was forced to pull out of the team event.

It led to doubts in the mind and Nandi soon sent her to SAI psychologist Bhavna Chouhan. It helped as the sessions along with the 18 days of intense training during the camp here helped her to get her confidence back.

"It has been a difficult phase for her the last couple of months. After the Asian Games, we both were heart broken, there were doubts in our mind but we didn't give up. I asked her if she is ready to do the hard work and she responded phenomenally.

"We just had 18-20 days of hard training at Delhi. Thanks to SAI for arranging the camp. They helped us a lot.

(With inputs from PTI)

Watch - Mary Kom becomes first female boxer to win 6 golds at Worlds

====== 421 ========

SYDNEY T20I: KRUNAL PANDYA RECORDS BEST T20I BOWLING FIGURES BY A SPINNER IN AUSTRALIA

Krunal Pandya set a new record in the third T20 international against Australia on Sunday as he registered the best bowling figures by an Indian in the format on Australian soil.

Pandya picked up a four-wicket haul and gave away just 36 runs in four overs to help India restrict Australia to 164 for 6 after the hosts won the toss and opted to bat in the final match of the three-T20I series at the Sydney Cricket Ground.

The senior Pandya's career-best figures are also the best by a spinner in T20Is in Australia. He was ably assisted by chinaman Kuldeep Yadav, who picked up one wicket and gave away just 19 runs in his quota of 4 overs.

India vs Australia 3rd T20I in Sydney: Live Blog

Just when the partnership between the openers seemed to be getting bigger, Krunal came in with the much needed breakthrough, picking Finch (28) before the wickets, with Australia at 68/1 in 8.3 overs.

India's Krunal Pandya sparked a mini collapse from the Aussies on his way to a four-wicket haul.#AUSvIND @toyota_aus pic.twitter.com/KRXwXZNXSu cricket.com.au (@cricketcomau) November 25, 2018

With the addition of another five runs on Australia's scorecard, Kuldeep gave another jolt as the chinaman packed back a well-settled Short (33) in the 10th over. Krunal then dismissed incoming batsman Ben McDermott on a duck, leaving the hosts at 73/3.

Also read - David Warner put to test by Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood at SCG nets

His fall saw Glenn Maxwell come in the middle, but while trying to launch a ball of Krunal into orbit, the batsman was caught at long-on by Rohit Sharma, leaving the hosts tottering at 90/4.

Stumper Alex Carey (27) and Chris Lynn (13) then added 29 runs for the fifth wicket, helping their side cross the three digit mark. However, Krunal was in no mood to spare the aussies, who had clobbered him for 55 runs in Brisbane, and picked his fourth wicket by sending back Carey in the 16th over.

India vs Australia 2nd T20I at Sydney: Live Cricket Score

With Australia at 131, Lynn departed after failing to complete his ground and Jasprit Bumrah made no mistake in hitting the bulls eye.

Marcus Stoinis then played a 15-ball 25 run knock, while Nathan Coulter-Nile chipped in with 13 runs off seven deliveries in the final overs to help the hosts reach a good total.

(With IANS inputs)

====== 422 ========

POLLS A WATERLOO FOR SITTING BIHAR MLAS

The recently concluded Bihar assembly elections have turned out to be a Waterloo for more than half of the sitting legislators in Bihar. As many as 124 MLAs who won their seats in the last assembly elections will not be part of the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly this time.

Among them are 38 legislators of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), who failed to make it to the assembly. Of these are five ministers - three from the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and two from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).

The ministers who failed to ride the crest of the Nitish Kumar wave are JD-U's Ramnath Thakur from Samastipur, Ramanand Singh from Parbatta and Sribhagwan Singh Kushwaha from Jagdishpur, and BJP's Ram Narayan Mandal from Banka and Awadhesh Narayan Singh from Dehri. Thakur, incidentally, is the son of former chief minister Karpoori Thakur.

While four of them lost to their Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) rivals, Awadhesh was defeated by an Independent candidate.

Out of the 38 MLAs from the ruling NDA in the last assembly, only 20 had been fielded by their parties this time.

The rest of them had either been denied tickets by their parties or had switched over to other parties.

Three passed away before the polls. In all, 13 legislators from JD-U and seven from the BJP were vanquished in this election. Four BJP legislators, including former minister Ramji Das Rishidev, were denied tickets.

Of the Opposition alliance, the RJD has the maximum number of MLAs who will not be part of the 15th legislative assembly in the state. Out of the 54 party legislators who had won the elections last time, 46 failed to make it to the assembly.

Among them were Srikant Nirala and Rajesh Roshan who had joined other parties. candidates who lost this year were former chief minister Rabri Devi, who lost from both the Sonepur and Raghopur constituencies, Shakeel Ahmad Khan, Shakuni Choudhary, Ram Chandra Purve, Pitambar Paswan and Gajendra Prasad Singh.

The loss of these leaders has left the RJD with no prominent leader in the House except the president of its Bihar unit, Abdul Bari Siddiqui.

Ten sitting MLAs of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), including party chief Ram Vilas Paswan's younger brother Pashupati Kumar poll battle, while the Congress lost all but one sitting MLA. The party's state president, Mehboob Ali Kaiser, lost the election by a margin of 18,000 votes. The leader of the Congress in the state legislature, Ashok Kumar, was also vanquished.

Other parties did not fare well either, dashing their hopes of gaining a toehold in MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Samajwadi Party and the Janata Dal (Secular) were defeated in the elections. All MLAs belonging to the Left parties - CPI ( ML), CPI and CPM - also lost their sitting MLAs.

Eight Independents from the 14th assembly will also not be seen in the upcoming sessions of the House. This includes colourful personalities such as Dadan Pehalwan, Kishore Kumar Munna, Pradeep Joshi, Haribhushan Thakur Bachoul and Bijendra Choudhary.

====== 423 ========

NITISH KEEPS HOME, PERSONNEL, MODI GETS FINANCE

Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday night allocated portfolios to the ministers retaining Home, General Administration, Election, Vigilance and rest of the departments and giving his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi the charge of Finance.

Modi would hold the portfolios of Finance, Commercial Taxes and Forest and Enviornment also.

JD(U) Minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhury would hold charge of Water Resources department, while Bijendra Prasad Yadav would be the Minister for Energy with the additional charge of Parliamentary Affairs, Excise and Prohibition and Registration departments.

Nand Kishore Yadav of BJP would be the Minister for Road Construction, according to an official notification issued on Friday night.

====== 424 ========

GUV INVITES NITISH, TO BE SWORN IN TODAY

File photo of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. File photo of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. , who steered the NDA to an unprecedented victory in the Bihar elections, was on Thursday invited to form the government by Governor Devanand Konwar and will be sworn-in as the state's 34th chief minister on Friday.

Kumar got the invitation from Konwar in the evening when he called on him at the Raj Bhavan to stake claim.

"The governor has invited me to form the government tomorrow at 2.30 pm at the Gandhi maidan," Kumar told reporters after his 50-minute meeting with Konwar. He was accompanied by JD(U) national president Sharad Yadav and senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley.

Sushil Kumar Modi, who was elected leader of BJP legislature party, will be sworn-in as Kumar's deputy.

Kumar said the list of ministers, who would take the oath with him, would be finanlised by top leaders of JD(U) and BJP.

Earlier, Kumar was elected leader of the NDA legislature party. His name was proposed by state NDA convenor Nand Kishore Yadav and seconded by state JD(U) president Vijay Kumar Choudhary.

Kumar was also unanimously elected leader of the 115-member JD(U) legislature party. His name was proposed by senior party leader Ramai Ram and seconded, among others, by Sahid Ali Khan, besides state JD(U) chief Vijay Kumar Choudhary.

Underlining the limitations of accommodation in the ministry, Kumar said, "We will ensure honour and respect for all. Don't say that you have won. As I have said, it's the people's victory. Just start work."

He also advised that there should be no arrogance over the victory of the NDA or belittling of the Opposition.

He said that there should also be no rush for occupation of flats before proper allotment as it would send a wrong message to the people.

Jaitley said NDA's win was "a victory of hope over disappointment. It is expected that the new government will further live up to the expectations and aspirations of the people".

With inputs from PTI

====== 425 ========

I DON'T ASPIRE TO BE PM, MY MANDATE IS TO STAY IN BIHAR: NITISH

Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said he does not think of becoming Prime Minister one day and maintained that the landslide victory in assembly elections shows the mandate is that he should stay in Bihar.

"I am an ordinary person. I belong to a poor state. A very ordinary political activist I am. So, I don't aspire for those big things. I only aspire for one thing--that Bihar should grow, should develop. That's all," Nitish told a news channel when asked if he thought he should be Prime Minister in future.

In reply to a question on his achievements making him a worthy claimant from Bihar CM to the post of PM, he said "there may be many people from Bihar who are capable of becoming Prime Minister but so far as I am concerned, I don't think on those terms. And I am serious about it (my answer)."

He said his victory on Wednesday meant the people wanted him to serve Bihar.

"I confine myself to limits of Bihar. That is also the mandate of the people of Bihar," he said.

Nitish Kumar-led JD(U)-BJP alliance in the state stormed back to power in Bihar with a huge victory in the assembly polls. The coalition managed to win more than 206 seats in the 243-member state legislature.

====== 426 ========

A LANDSLIDE SWEEP FOR JD(U)-BJP COMBINE IN BIHAR

Riding a massive wave on the theme of development, Nitish Kumar on Wednesday led the JD(U)-BJP alliance to a landslide four-fifth majority in the Assembly elections routing Lalu Prasad's RJD-LJP combine and a weak Congress to return to power for a second consecutive term.

The scale of victory could be gauged from the fact that from 143 seats in the 2005 elections, Kumar's campaign on the basis of his government's performance helped the ruling alliance notch a spectacular tally of 206 seats in the 243-member House.

While Nitish Kumar's JD(U) got 115 seats, its ally BJP secured 91. They had got 88 and 55 respectively in the last elections. The new government will take oath on Friday at the Gandhi Maidan.

The 59-year-old Chief Minister, who is said to have brought change in governance in a state that had witnessed Lalu Prasad's OBC empowerment politics, adopted a strategy of attracting Muslim votes even at the expense of earning BJP's wrath at times by keeping Narendra Modi out of campaign.

He also reached out to the disadvantaged sections among the OBC and Scheduled Caste by working on a package for Mahadalits and extremely backward castes.

This is the biggest victory in an assembly election anywhere in the country in the recent times and particularly in Bihar in 26 years when Congress got over 200 seats in 1984 riding a sympathy wave after Indira Gandhi's assassination.

The House then had a strength of 324 in the undivided Bihar.

The Opposition was in tatters with RJD, which ruled Bihar continuously for over 15 years till 2005, reduced to just 22 seats from its 2005 tally of 54. Its alliance partner LJP led by Ram Vilas Paswan was down at 3 from 10 it had.

Congress, which gambled by going it alone with Rahul Gandhi as its spearhead in the campaign, failed to even retain its seats. It got only four seats.

RJD's humiliation was complete when Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, who was Leader of Opposition in the outgoing House, was defeated in both the constituencies she contested.

Likewise, its ally LJP chief Paswan's two brothers -- Pasupati Kumar Paras and Ramachandra Paswan -- were made to bite the dust.

The CPI, which had three, was down to one, while independents accounted for six. In the last elections, independents had won in 10 seats. SP, BSP and NCP, which had two, four and one respectively in the last elections, drew a blank.

Nov 24, a lucky date for Nitish!

Little may be known whether he believes in numerology or not, but November 24 has again proved to be lucky for Nitish Kumar as he led the BJP-JD(U) combine to a thumping win today, five years after being sworn-in as Bihar chief minister on this very date.

Though he was at the helm of affairs for a very brief period of seven days in 2000, he took charge as the state's 33rd chief minister on November 24, 2005.

However, there isn't much November connection otherwise in the political career of the JD(U) leader who has an electrical engineering degree.

Victory of merit-based leadership over family dynasties: BJP

Buoyed by the resounding victory in Bihar assembly elections by JD(U)-BJP combine, BJP took a pot shot at Congress and described the result as a victory of "merit-based leadership over family dynasties".

The party also hinted that Bihar poll verdict could be a "launch pad" for NDA's revival at the national level in a big way.

"From a political point of view, this election result is a victory of merit-based leadership over family dynasties", senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley said in New Delhi.

The people of Bihar had rejected "dynastic politics", Jaitley said adding "our main opponents Congress and RJD "were under the impression that dynastic politics is what Bihar needs and only this will give them victory in the hustings.

This factor was common to both."

He praised Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Sushil Kumar Modi and said the people of Bihar decided to choose this combination of "capability and experience".

"People of Bihar showed political maturity. There was a wave that this leadership should return. Both RJD and Congress could not read the mood of people. Both failed to write the script of this election", the BJP leader remarked.

Jaitley said the election result could have two impacts on national politics, "NDA is the only substitute to a non-Congress option to the country and its strength may grow even more... it could be a launching pad".

He said second impact was that right from the start, it appeared that those who can be given the credit for changing Bihar will win the hustings.

Comparing the mood during previous elections in Bihar with the just-concluded one, the BJP leader said "it is a victory of hope over fear. Victory of optimism over despair."

Asked if the two allies in Bihar would face any problem in governnment-formation as BJP had done exceedingly well and its MLAs would seek more cabinet berths, Jaitley said "we have made many alliance governments. We have led and we have been part of them. I can say with confidence that the Bihar government has functioned in the past five years in a good way".

He said the BJP Parliamentary board would meet in Delhi later in the day and the JD(U) parliamentary board will hold its own meeting and "then we will hold a joint meeting. Both legislative parties will elect their leaders and then a joint meeting wil be held to appoint an alliance leader".

Asked who would lead the alliacne in Bihar, Jaitely said "it is clear who will be the leader".

Cong not surprised, RJD baffled, Left disappointed

Describing its poor showing in Bihar as not surprising, Congress said it will have to start from the scratch in the state while the RJD said it was baffled by the poll results.

Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who congratulated Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the landslide victory of the JD(U)-BJP combine, candidly admitted that her party was not expecting to make big inroads in the Bihar assembly polls.

"As far as our party is concerned, we did not have much hope. We took a deliberate decision not to work in alliance with other parties. Results obviously indicate that our party has to start from the scratch to rebuild itself and that is what we plan to do," Gandhi told reporters at her 10, Janpath residence while reacting to the Bihar poll results.

Congress spokesperson Manish Tewary said, "We had decided to go alone to rebuild our party in the state. It was a difficult decision when we decided to go alone. By going alone the base which we had lost we would try to regain that."

Hoping that Congress will stage a comeback in the state he said, "Ultimately the position we have taken will stand vindicated (one day)."

RJD supremo Lalu Prasad today said he accepted the defeat with humility.

"I congratulate Nitish Kumar not the BJP for the success story... though we accept the people's mandate with humility, we will soon undertake a thorough review what led to such astonishing results," Prasad told reporters in Patna.

He said "now when people have reposed faith in Nitish Kumar, they will like to see that the promises made by Kumar be completed in a time-bound manner."

The CPI(M) said it was disappointed by the poll results.

"Our number of seats have gone down in Bihar assembly...naturally we are disappointed," CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat told reporters outside Parliament..

Congratulating JD(U)-BJP on their good performance, Brinda said, "We all congratualte Nitish Kumar for the victory in Bihar. His alliance has made a record victory in Bihar".

A euphoric BJP termed the poll outcome as a victory of meritorious leadership over dynastic politics with a message for the future of Indian politics that a membership of a family or dynasty does not count.

Senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley said the election results have showed that politics of Bihar has changed and that "charisma or family" does not win elections, in an obvious attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Rahul Gandhi who campaigned for Congress.

"It is a vote for the future of Bihar...the NDA ran a government with maturity and integrity,"he said.

Describing the victory in Bihar as "unprecedented", party leader Sushma Swaraj said the election results indicated that only those governments will sustain which work for development.

"The message of the Bihar election is that the governments which work for people, which ensures development will only able to come back to power".

Sharing the view, BJP president Nitin Gadkari said the election results have made it clear that only "politics of development" worked in the country.

"This (victory of NDA) proves that there will be no space for politics of caste in 21st century politics. Politics of progress and development are only possible," he said.

JD(U) president Sharad Yadav said people of the state have appreciated the developmental work carried out by the ruling combine.

"Our alliance has won the election. There was an alliance, there is an alliance and there will be an alliance," he said.

Modi hails people of Bihar for voting for development

In Gandhinagar, Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the people of Bihar for reposing faith in politics of development and re-electing the ruling BJP-JD(U) alliance with a massive mandate in the Assembly polls.

"The victory (of the alliance) vindicates the common man's faith in the politics of development. I congratulate people of Bihar on the occasion of unprecedented victory of JD(U)-BJP in the just-concluded Assembly elections," he said.

The BJP leader congratulated Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Modi over the victory.

"People have given a clear message - that in a democracy elections could be won on development agenda. People's interest in the politics of development is increasing in the country."

BJP had not invited the frontline Hindutva leader to campaign in Bihar apparently due to opposition from its partner JD(U).

During a visit of Modi to Bihar in June this year, advertisements by Gujarat Chief Minister's supporters on flood relief had strained the relationship between the allies.

Nitish had openly criticised Modi over the advertisements and returned the Rs 5-crore aid given by Gujarat Government for the Kosi flood victims.

In the Assembly polls, results of which were declared today, BJP-JD(U) won with three-fourth majority.

With inputs from PTI

====== 427 ========

UPBEAT BJP LOOKS TO REPLICATE BIHAR MODEL ACROSS INDIA

The BJP on Wednesday attributed its resounding success in the Bihar Assembly election to development work carried out by the NDA government led by JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar and the party's growing popularity in the state.



The party is poised to win 91 seats of the 102 it contested. At 8.20 pm, the BJP had already won 87 and was leading in four seats. The BJP had won 55 of the 102 seats it contested in November 2005 polls.



It was, thus, a gain of 36 seats to the previous polls result, better than the JD(U)'s gain of 29 seats, as the latter was poised to win 115.



Statistically, the BJP candidates were successful in almost 90 per cent seats it contested, while the JD(U) was successful in a little over 81 per cent seats. No wonder, the alliance claimed a record 85 per cent seats in the Bihar Assembly.



The results are really encouraging for the party in the wake of its successive losses in the last two general elections and its dismal performances in most of the states, including those under its rule earlier.



The Bihar polls results are set to boost the morale of the party, especially because it fared really well barely a couple of months after the most awaited high court verdict in the Ayodhya dispute cases.



Often termed as a "communal party", its leaders even claimed that the BJP candidates secured Muslim votes, which would so far go in bulk to any of the so-called "secular parties".



Their claim was supported by the party's good performance in Muslim-dominated constituencies. Its Muslim candidate Saba Zaffar in fact defeated Congress's Abdul Jalil Mastan in Amour by over 18,000 votes.



Targeting the Congress and the RJD, senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley termed the outcomes in Bihar as "a victory of merit-based leadership over family dynasties". He even hinted that Bihar polls verdict could be a "launch pad" for the NDA's revival at the national level in a big way.

====== 428 ========

NITISH'S DEVELOPMENT FORMULA BEATS LALU'S M-Y EQUATION

Bihar's former chief minister Lalu Prasad is now staring at political oblivion.

Despite all his claims to bring the RJD-LJP combine back to power in Bihar, state's former chief minister Lalu Prasad is now staring at political oblivion. The man who ruled Bihar for 15 years has suffered his worst electoral defeat in what is arguably one of the India's biggest political earthquakes.



The biggest blow for Lalu was the defeat of his wife and successor after he went to jail in the multi-crore fodder scam cases -- Rabri devi -- who lost in both the constituencies she was contesting from. She lost in the RJD bastions Raghopur and Sonepur.



The last time the RJD won the assembly election was in 2000, just before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar. More than a decade ago, the RJD had ridden on the back of the Muslim-Yadav combination to retain power in the state.



But that magic had begun to wane quickly. In the 2005 assembly election, the RJD was edged out as it could win just 54 seats in the 243-member House.



But the worst was yet to come. With no Muslim-Yadav factor working this time, Lalu has been swept away in his own backyard.



The partnership with Ramvilas Paswan's LJP too proved to be a dud. The alliance struggled to reach the figure of 25 with the RJD barely holding on to 30 seats.



The RJD contested in 168 seats, while the LJP fielded candidates in 75 constituencies.



Lalu's brand of politics proved to be no match for Nitish's development plank.



After being marginalised in the Centre in the general election last year, the RJD's crushing loss in the assembly election completes Lalu's political humiliation.

====== 429 ========

BIHAR POLL RESULT: WHERE'S RAHUL MAGIC, ASKS BJP

The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) is celebrating its Bihar victory as a vote for development, against caste politics and - much as the Congress may dislike - a snub for brand Rahul Gandhi.



Party leaders on Wednesday hardly minced words in pulling down the Congress general secretary's youth-centric election campaign, saying the voters had given him an apt reply.



"Where is the Rahul Gandhi factor?" senior BJP leader Ananth Kumar bluntly asked as the JD(U)-BJP alliance headed for a landslide win.



"The people of Bihar have shown that no factor except Nitish Kumar works," Kumar said.



"The BJP won in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. And in Gujarat, it's a Narendra Modi wave," he said.



BJP leader Sushma Swaraj too dismissed the high-profile Congress campaign in the Bihar polls. "Where is the magic that the Congress talked about?" she asked.



The party said that while the top Congress leadership travelled far and wide and talked of corruption in Bihar, the voters ultimately rejected them.

According to BJP spokesperson Ravishankar Prasad, "Rahul Gandhi used to go to Bihar as a youth icon. Why did he fail despite an aggressive campaign by him and Sonia?"



In response, the Congress's defence of Rahul appeared to be rather muted. "Rahul Gandhi was effective. He drew large crowds wherever he went. But elections are a different matter and we need to analyse the results," Mukul Vasnik, the party's Bihar in-charge, said.

- For full coverage go to: Bihar Assembly Election 2010

====== 430 ========

IN PICS | DAY 1 OF PM MODI'S MEETING WITH SHINZO ABE IN JAPAN

Caption:

Japanese Premier Shinzo Abe on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was one of his most "dependable" friends and the two leaders are expected to deliberate on a range of regional and global issues including the situation in the Indo-Pacific region.

====== 431 ========

TRAIN PLOUGHS THROUGH CROWD IN AMRITSAR, OVER 50 FEARED DEAD

Short description:

Several people were killed after a train ran into crowds at Joda Phatak crossing in Amritsar. The number of dead and injured is still not clear but different sources quoted different casualty figures ranging between 30 and 60 dead.

====== 432 ========

KASHMIR DECKED IN WHITE AFTER FRESH SNOWFALL

Short description:

The upper reaches of Kashmir Valley received fresh snowfall, while rain struck plains on Tuesday leading to a drop in temperature by a few notches. The upper reaches of the Valley, including the world famous ski resorts of Sonmarg and Gulmarg received snowfall.

====== 433 ========

ARUNACHAL CM PEMA KHANDU ON POLITICS, BJP AND THE NORTHEAST

Caption:

Talking about being the youngest CM in India, Pema Khandu said that age has nothing to do with politics. "Age has nothing to do with politics, it is all about performance," he said. He also said that he wouldn't have entered politics had his father not died in an accident. (Photo: India Today Group/Subir Halder)

====== 434 ========

LEFT OR RIGHT: WHICH WAY WILL WEST BENGAL SWAY?

Caption:

"Left or Right - Which Way Will Bengal Sway?" -- that was the theme of the lively, riveting panel discussion that marked the start of Day Two of the India Today Conclave East 2018 in Kolkata. (Photo: Yasir Iqbal)

====== 435 ========

BJP, CPM AND TMC IN WAR OF WORDS OVER RISING VIOLENCE IN WEST BENGAL

Caption:

When it came to the topic of the violence seen in the recently concluded panchayat polls in West Bengal, the charge on the TMC was that the government had scared their political opponents into not contesting on 55-70 per cent of the seats in several districts. While Garga Chatterjee tried to deflect the question by bringing up the situation in Tripura, Majumdar accused the government of committing a level of atrocity and tyranny that had never been seen in local elections before. (Photo: India Today Group/Subir Halder)

====== 436 ========

OUTSTANDING FOR INVESTORS: INDUSTRIALISTS PRAISE WEST BENGAL

Caption:

Three top industrialists -- Sanjiv Goenka, Sanjay Budhia, and Harshavardhan Neotia -- took part in an India Today Conclave East session today in Kolkata. The theme was "Investors Inc. Should I Bet Big on Bengal?" You can watch the full video of their wide-ranging conversation with Rajdeep Sardesai in our Videos section. (Photo: Subir Halder)

====== 437 ========

IDEA OF INDIANNESS IS IN FLUX, SAYS AROON PURIE AT INDIA TODAY CONCLAVE EAST 2018

Caption:

Pointing out that Development vs Divisiveness will be one of themes that will play across India before the upcoming elections, Purie said, "Development and good governance remain the catch phrases in every elections but inevitably electoral campaigns deteriorate into divisive issues. So in Bihar, it will be upper caste vs the backwards, in West Bengal it will be Durga worshippers vs the Islamic faithful, and in the North East it is the outsider vs insider aggression." (Photo: India Today Group/Shubir Halder)

====== 438 ========

NIRMALA SITHARAMAN CELEBRATES PARAKRAM PARV AT INDIA GATE | SEE PICS

Short description:

The government today observed Parakram Parv, the second anniversary of the surgical strikes carried out by the Indian Army in 2016. Days after several soldiers were martyred in a terrorist attack in J&K's Uri. While PM Modi inaugurated an exhibition in Jodhpur, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman visited the exhibition at Delhi's India Gate.

====== 439 ========

SWIMMING AGAINST THE TIDE: RAJASTHAN'S CHAMPION WOMEN AT INDIA TODAY WOMAN SUMMIT 2018

Caption:

Shalini Pathak, a kabaddi player who was part of the Indian contingent to Asian Games, said that when she chose to play kabbadi, her parents weren't very supportive. "When I first started playing sports, I would run and my father would bike next to me. I have to interact with men when I'm working and play in shorts on the field while playing. You have to shut out what people are saying especially when we are playing in villages - chikni ko pakad lo, etc, - you have to focus on your game. Then you can achieve what you want," she said. (Photo: India Today Group/Rajwant Rawat)

====== 440 ========

TIME TO PROMOTE WOMEN RIGHTS, SAYS RAJ CHENGAPPA AT INDIA TODAY WOMAN SUMMIT 2018

Short description:

India Today Editorial Director (Publishing) Raj Chengappa delivered the welcome address at the India Today Woman Summit 2018 in Jaipur. During his welcome address, Chengappa pointed out that while it is important to celebrate and salute women and their successes, we must not forget that a lot still needs to be done for women in the country.

====== 441 ========

INDIA TODAY WOMAN SUMMIT 2018: KIRAN MAHESHWARI, JYOTI KIRAN ON STEPS TAKEN BY RAJASTHAN GOVT TO EMPOWER WOMEN

Caption:

Speaking on whether India is a feminist society, Dr Jyoti Kiran said that India is a not a feminist society but a familist one. "Who could imagine women would head a family? It's a structural issues that's there in other countries. But yes, societal structures are unique in each state so it will take time to deconstruct them... Educated women are now being appointed as the sarpanch, because CM Raje has ensured that whoever fights the election should have at least completed his or her class," said Dr Jyoti Kiran. (Photo: India Today Group/ Rajwant Rawat)

====== 442 ========

SEE | FIRE RAGES ON AT BAGREE MARKET IN KOLKATA

Caption:

One local said that only two fire engines showed up at first to douse the flames.

====== 443 ========

CLINTON, SHARIF, SHARON: VAJPAYEE WITH WORLD LEADERS

Caption:

AB Vajpayee with Nawaz Sharif during the Lahore Summit. In 1999, there was short-lived thaw in relations between India and Pakistan when Vajpayee took a bus to Lahore in 1999, and hugged Nawaz Sharif, who was then the Pakistani premier. It was a diplomatic breakthrough; Vajpayee travelled with a delegation that included Dev Anand, Javed Akhtar and Kapil Dev. Among other things, it was agreed that New Delhi and Islamabad were fully committed to undertaking measures to reduce risks of the accidental or unauthorised use of nuclear weapons.

====== 444 ========

KERALA FLOODS IN PICTURES: NAVY DEPLOYS 21 RESCUE TEAMS ON DAY 7 OF OPERATION MADAD

Short description:

According to district-wise India Meteorological Department data for rainfall this monsoon, 283 of 640 or nearly 45 per cent districts of the country are facing deficient rain. But Kerala is a contrasting case where 12 of 14 districts are facing heavy rainfall and floods. The heavy rainfall has forced the opening of shutters of all the major dams.

====== 445 ========

INDIA PRAYS FOR ATAL BIHARI VAJPAYEE

Caption:

As former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee remains on life support, people across the country pray for his quick recovery. In Gwalior, students of Government Ayurvedic College pray for health of Vajpayee, who is admitted at AIIMS, Delhi.

