====== 1 ========

See Inside: Robert Redford's $7.5 Million Wine Country Estate

The Old Man & the Gun will be Robert Redford‘s final film as an actor, which he announced this year as he turned 82. He is simplifying his life in another way, as well, putting his Napa Valley wine-country retreat, which he has owned for 14 years, up for sale for $7.5 million, according to toptenrealestatedeals.com.

“The truth is that I really do feel that it’s time for me to move into retirement,” Redford told Variety. “I’ve been doing this since I was 21. I’ve put my soul and heart into it over the years. I thought, ‘That’s enough. Why don’t you quit while you’re a little bit ahead? Don’t wait for the bell to toll. Just get out.’ So I felt my time had come and I couldn’t think of a better project to go out on than this film.”

Whether or not he follows through on his retirement remains to be seen, but Redford has a lot of other things to keep him busy. He will still direct, produce and oversee the annual Sundance Film Festival and the Sundance Institute, both located in Utah, which has been his primary residence for decades and is where he lives with artist wife, Sibylle Szaggars. The Oscar winner also owns a 250-acre ranch outside Santa Fe, New Mexico.

The Napa Valley estate, named Danza del Sol, sits atop a knoll on 10 private acres surrounded by woods and vegetation with walking trails.

The compound includes the 5,200-square-foot main house, a 90-square-foot artist studio/guest house and two large garages.

The main house is comprised of three bedrooms, four bathrooms, a large great room, den, library-office, sunny white kitchen and formal dining room. Multiple wood-burning fireplaces are scattered throughout the home.

The studio/guest house has a huge open space filled with light from a wall of French doors and double garage doors that rise high into the vaulted ceiling.

One of the two garages houses a large workshop and exercise studio. Terraces by the pool, spa and outdoor dining areas are perfect for entertaining.

The listing agent is Steven Mavromihalis of Pacific Union International, San Francisco.

====== 2 ========

Mindful Learning: A New Trend in Education Based in Ancient Wisdom

Education has always been about equipping children and young adults with essential skills they will need throughout their lives. And as society changes, our definition of those skills have changed. Education for girls, for instance, is no longer based on the assumption that they will grow up to be housewives and instead addresses skills they are likely to need in the workplace.

So it’s no surprise that, as mindfulness has become an increasingly mainstream phenomenon, it has also found a place in classrooms from preschool upward. At the most basic level, kids needs mindfulness for the same reason adults do. Recent studies have shown that a whopping 20 percent of children in the U.S. suffer from anxiety, which can lead to depression in adolescence. ADHD increased from seven percent in 2003 to 11 percent in 2011 and shows no signs of abating. Physical bullying and the relatively recent phenomenon of cyberbullying are also on the rise as our society grows increasingly intolerant and violent.

Just like adults, children face the digital-age challenges of information overload and distraction. If anything, the situation is even more critical in the case of young minds just being formed. Which is why academic institutions such as the Vanderbilt University Center for Teaching have developed mindfulness programs that bring practices such as guided meditation, breath awareness, body scanning and journaling into the classroom.

“Research confirms that these practices can offset the constant distractions of our multitasking, multimedia culture,” the Center’s website states. “Thus, intentional teaching methods that integrate the ancient practice of mindfulness innovatively meet the particular needs of today’s students.”

“Contemplative pedagogy” is the technical name for the branch of education devoted to bringing mindfulness into the classroom. It’s a perfect fit, if you think about it. Education is all about developing the mind, and that involves far more than just imparting information. It entails something even more basic than teaching children and young adults how to think analytically, although that skill is obviously of immense importance and, sadly, on the decline. Implemented in the right way, classroom mindfulness programs can address the problem at the very root of that tragic decline—a basic inability to focus the mind and pay attention.

“What we know of learning is that the predominant factor is not merely time on task; it is the quality of attention brought to that task,” says Tobin Hart, a psychology professor at the University of West Georgia. “If our attention is somewhere else, we may have little capacity to be present.”

Educators tell us that children can start doing brief yoga and mindfulness exercises starting at age four. Some start even younger.

“We have a common language from the three-year-olds to the 14-year-olds,” says Dennie Doran, a teacher and administrator involved in the mindfulness program at the Nantucket New School in Massachusetts. “‘Was that a mindful decision?’ ‘Did you think about your choice?’ ‘Stop and take a breath.’ So that, by the time the lower school gets to the upper school, we’re dealing with teachable moments instead of discipline problems. They’re learning self-awareness and then making choices based on that self-awareness.”

Along with enhancing the basic attention skills essential to academic success, school mindfulness programs can improve social and citizenship skills by developing the fundamental human capacity for compassion and empathy.

This aspect of classroom mindfulness was dramatically illustrated by the groundbreaking 2013 PBS documentary Room to Breathe. The first broadcast documentary of its kind, the program followed educator Megan Cowan, co-founder and executive director of Mindful Schools, as she worked with at-risk seventh-graders at the Marina Middle School, in San Francisco.

“Mindfulness, or bringing attention to one’s experience, can be very empowering,” Cowan states. “Mindfulness strengthens self-awareness, the ability to recognize how you are feeling or what you are thinking in any given moment. When you have this ability, you are in a much more empowered place of choice. You can choose how to respond to anger, fear, anxiety, sadness, excitement, etc. rather than reacting automatically.

“Oddly, this capacity of self-awareness is not generally cultivated in people. We don’t put an emphasis on this being an important tool in our culture today. But it is relatively simple, and the ability is so natural that children often immediately understand how to use mindfulness and begin applying it to their experiences.”

Of course classroom mindfulness is a top-down proposition. That is, it is best taught by teachers who practice mindfulness themselves. This is the case at the Nantucket New School, as Doran explains.

“Our faculty meetings all start with three minutes of quiet breathing. Our head of school rings a chime and we all just relax and take some deep breaths and stop what we’re doing, and then we start the faculty meeting.”

It is often said that education begins in the home. This is no less true of mindfulness education than any other form of learning. So even if your children’s school doesn’t have a mindfulness program, you can home-school them through your own practice of mindfulness.

“When we teach young people mindfulness, we are teaching them in two ways: directly and indirectly,” Cowan says of Mindful Schools. “The key thing that adults, parents, educators, mentors, etc., will want to remember about integrating mindfulness into their work with kids is that their own personal embodiment and understanding of mindfulness will be the most powerful teacher to young people.

“As a parent or educator, the way you respond to your own stress, impatience, disappointment, etc. is teaching just as much—if not more—as what you tell your children or students to do. The more you establish your own mindfulness practice, the more you will be able to impart, both through your presence and through your words.”

Mindfulness, a very simple form of meditation, has been proven to increase calm, reduce depression and help combat anxiety associated with our increasingly frantic existence. In this special guide, the technique is explained in clear, everyday language, with additional information on its spiritual roots and present-day application. Buy a copy today.

====== 3 ========

The Voice Recap: The Top 11 Sang Songs Chosen by Their Fans

Monday night on The Voice was fan night with the Top 11 performing songs chosen by the viewers at home.

Team Blake Shelton’s Texas rocker Dave Fenley kicked off the night, singing “Use Me” by Bill Withers and showing off his beat-boxing skills to the surprise of the audience.

“I am shocked a little bit,” Adam Levine reacted. “That was wild. It makes me happy to see you doing whatever you want. At this point, people usually worry about being safe and you just went at it.”

Blake added, “I’ve got to say and we talk about it on this show season after season, we wait for an artist to have a moment. You just had it.”

Team Kelly Clarkson‘s 16-year-old Chevel Shepherd from La Plata, New Mexico, showed off her tender side on Kacey Musgraves‘ “Space Cowboy.”

“You hit the big note,” Kelly enthused. “You nailed it baby girl. The thing I love about country music — and you are so good at it — is the story telling.”

Next, Team Adam’s 14-year-old Reagan Strange from Memphis, Tenn., was lucky enough to have the fans pick “Complicated” by Avril Lavigne for her, a song she said she loves.

“I am glad they are letting me talk because it is fan week and I have been a fan of yours since the Blind Auditions,” Blake told her. “You have charisma. When you get on stage everyone can see it and you sang perfectly.”

“I wish I had a half an hour to talk about you,” her coach said. “I adore you. You continue to impress me every week. I truly believe not only can you win this thing but you can be a big star. You are special.”

Then it was Team Kelly’s Connecticut powerhouse Kymberli Joye who took the stage with the gospel song “Break Every Chain” by Tasha Cobbs.

“What they should have said before they introduced you was, ‘The doors of The Voice Baptist Church are open,'” Jennifer Hudson said. “She opened up the doors of the church.”

“I was telling Jennifer before that you can blow people away with the roundness of your tone,” Kelly pointed out. “It reminds me of watching Jennifer in the beginning. You love gospel music and that is what you are going to do.”

Kymberli was followed by Team Blake’s Kirk Jay with his take on “Body Like a Back Road” by Sam Hunt.

“What the hell are you doing up there?” Blake shouted out. “It was an incredible mix of George Strait with Rascal Flatts and all these influences up there. I am so happy for you.”

Next, Team Blake’s Chris Kroeze rocked the audience with “Long Train Running” by The Doobie Brothers.

“America did you see that? That was incredible,” Blake said. “You can see Barron [Wisconsin] from space right now. People are freaking out. You get better with every performance.”

After Chris, this season’s Comeback Artist Lynnea Moore, who joined Team Kelly, performed “Consequences” by Camila Cabello.

“You surprise me every time,” Jennifer said. “Plus you look like a star. You sound like a star. You continue to raise the bar, which is what you should be doing.”

“I am so proud you are having this moment and that you are making every moment count,” Kelly told her. “You are so cool and so relevant. It sounds right for radio right now.”

Team Jennifer’s first artist of the night was Wallingford, Kentucky’s MaKenzie Thomas, who put her own spin on “Emotion” by the Bee Gees.

“Oh, my! You are so skilled,” her coach told her. “I could tell this is your strength. I hope your fans are happy. That was like a Destiny Child‘s arrangement of it. Your voice is like butter.”

Then it was time for Team Kelly’s 16-year-old from Houston, Texas, Sarah Grace, singing “Dog Days Are Over” by Florence + the Machine.

“I’ve got to say I have been a fan of yours from the beginning,” Blake said. “I love seeing you step out from behind the piano and perform like that. This is my favorite performance of yours.”

“I think both of us were shocked,” Kelly admitted. “She wouldn’t have picked this song [but it worked]. You are just freshly 16 years old, and you are such a smart singer for someone so young.”

The penultimate performer of the night was Team Adam’s DeAndre Nico with his rendition of “Cry for You” by Jodeci.

“I have to say it took me back to those days [the ’90s],” Jennifer said. “I was in the neighborhood. Outside everybody was grilling, watching the boys play basketball while the girls sat on the porch.”

“He just did a song that everybody wanted to hear and didn’t know,” Adam pointed out. “It does bring you back. It was such an incredible time. You have all the elements. You are more driven than anyone else and, obviously, you can sing. You commanded attention. I am so proud of you.”

Team Jennifer’s 13-year-old from St. Louis, Mo., Kennedy Holmes, closed out the night with “Greatest Love of All,” channeling her inner Whitney Houston.

“I am so proud of you,” Jennifer said. “You look beautiful. I know mama Whitney is proud up there. We will see your name in lights in your own rights.”

The Voice returns Tuesday night at 8 p.m. ET/PT on NBC when one of the Top 11 will be eliminated.

====== 4 ========

11 Under $30 Gifts Ideas for Co-Workers

Treat the ones you love spend the most time with to a holiday gift…because the overtime you worked to help on their project doesn’t quite say “Merry Christmas” like a tin of Williams Sonoma’s signature chocolate peppermint bark. Here’s to bonding over mandatory office parties and tight holiday deadlines with your work fam to make the season bright—not to forget those few days off. OK, let’s be honest, no one’s forgetting that. Cheers!

You can’t go wrong with gourmet popcorn like Dylan’s Candy Bar Mistletoe Munch Christmas Popcorn Tin, a salty-sweet shareable snack including crushed Teddy Grahams, pretzels, potato chips and chocolate chunks. $15, dylanscandybar.com

Get office gals this blogger-approved solution to keeping keys at the ready and hands free whether grocery shopping or heading to the gym. The O-Venture Big O Key Rings fit comfortably above the elbow and are available in silicone or vegan leather styles. $25-$55, shop.o-venture.com

The Williams Sonoma Original Peppermint Bark is a holiday must-have, and the vintage-style red-and-white tin makes a festive gift that doesn’t require wrapping! (There’s more! Williams Sonoma is celebrating 20 years of delicious peppermint bark. They’ve hidden 1,500 tickets in holiday tins, so you could be gifting even more than a chocolate treat — up to a $1,000 grand prize gift card!) $29, Williams Sonoma

Restaurants across the country are ditching plastic drinking straws to keep trash out of the oceans and marine life safer. The National Geographic Planet or Plastic? Tote Bag Gift Set will prep any on-the-go Joe with multi-use goodies, including a statement bag, S’well bottle, two reusable straws and a bamboo utensil set. $15, natgeostore.com

When the office is in need of a morale boost, give a laugh each day of the year with help from desktop Cartoons from The New Yorker 2019 Calendar, which offers a new daily cartoon on easy tear-off pages. $15, amazon.com

Gift them a festive — and tasty — project to tackle with family and friends during days off this year. The Wondershop Ugly Sweater Cookie Kit will take their Christmas cookies to the next level! $7, Target

So many meetings, so little time. Everyone’s thought it at some point. And the I Survived Another Meeting That Should Have Been an Email Coffee Mug by FoxyMug is the passive-aggressive way to say it. All in good fun, of course! $16, etsy.com

Every time another employee birthday card is passed around the office, there’s always that person who writes ho-hum “HBD.” Equip your co-worker with a foolproof message thanks to the Birthday Greeting with Signature Self-Inking Stamp. $25, zazzle.com

Created by comedian Jeff Foxworthy, Relative Insanity card game will be a hilarious hit for holiday get-togethers. Mix-and-match cards use bits of Foxworthy’s stand-up material for players to piece together funny phrases about family and friends. $15, Walmart

Stock the bar with simple, sleek LBD Wines for moments when the office crew needs a vacation from their vacation. Plus, the company partners with organizations supporting women, such as Susan G. Komen, Avon Books, Keep a Breast and Fatigues to Fabulous. $12, lbdwines.com

Give back by purchasing one of the FEED x Williams Sonoma Mugs, which provides six meals for malnourished children in more than 63 countries including Cambodia, Chad and Guatemala. (Mugs available online beginning December 5.) $13, feedprojects.com

====== 5 ========

Ringo Starr Shares Beatles Stories, Never-Before-Seen Photos in New Book

Here’s a chance to see the world through Ringo Starr’s eyes!

The iconic musician is releasing a series of previously unpublished photos in his new coffee table book, Another Day In the Life.

Another Day In the Life, available for pre-order from Genesis Books, is a quirky assortment of photos snapped by Starr, including candid views of his everyday life, as well as archival shots of Paul McCartney and other legends from his Beatles days.

“I love taking photos of random things, and seeing how they all fit together. Whether it is at home or on the road, certain things catch my eye – and when I see something that interests me, that’s the emotion of it, and I want to capture it. I am a photographer as well as a musician,” Starr said in a statement about the new book. “I love working with Genesis and had so much fun putting together this collection of images: photos taken by me and a few picked up along the way. I hope you enjoy it too.”

Starr intersperses the photos with fascinating Beatles anecdotes, including this story about how the famous Abbey Road album cover image came about.

“Who knew the Abbey Road photograph would be so iconic? We were sitting in the studio thinking, ‘We need a cover, let’s go to Hawaii! Let’s go to Egypt! Oh, sod it, let’s just walk across the road,’” he said. “How you feel on the day is what art is about.”

Launch the gallery to peek inside Ringo Starr’s Another Day In the Life.

====== 6 ========

Kill ’Em with Kindness: Mindful Strategies for Dealing With Difficult Co-Workers

The know-it-all, the corporate-ladder climber, the two-faced backstabber, the passive-aggressive bully, the wrong-footer, the overachiever, the underachiever, the racist/sexist pig, the minority-card player, the manipulator, the chronic complainer… The workplace can be the foremost breeding ground for people who just seem to push our buttons. If we work for a living, we will meet some of these characters—maybe all of them. How we deal with them will have a major impact on not only our careers but also our sanity and well-being.

When learning to deal mindfully with difficult co-workers, the first step is to refrain from giving them derogatory labels, such as the ones listed above. It may feel good to use this kind of language when we’re venting about work-related issues to friends or family members. Such labels may even be accurate in some cases. But clinging to them won’t help us one little bit in a real-life office conflict. Any kind of clinging is more likely to harm us than help us. That’s Mindfulness 101.

The key realization is that your workplace antagonist is a complex, multifaceted human being, just like you. To resolve conflicts and coexist with such a person, you will need to acknowledge that complexity and make some effort to understand it. Rationalize it as “know your enemy” if you must, but it will be much better if you can get enmity out of the equation. Remember that it takes two people to create a conflict, so you’ll also need to take a close look at yourself and consider what fuel you might be adding to the fires of discord.

Know What Your Buttons Are

This piece of advice comes from Buddhist teacher Thubten Chodron. We all have things that trigger our anger. These flash points may stem from our upbringing, family life, relationships or beliefs, and may be justified. For example, many people are understandably triggered when they hear racist or sexist language.

But as Chodron writes in her 2001 book, Working with Anger, “our buttons are our responsibility. As long as we have them, someone will push them, especially since they are big, red and flashing… Although many times people have no intention of harming us, our buttons get pushed just because we are so sensitive.”

By applying a bit of mindful self-analysis, we can identify what our buttons are and where they’re located. That way, when one gets pushed, we can recognize what’s happening and calmly consider why. There are three basic responses to the trigger:

1. “This person is pushing my button just because it’s there—just to get a ‘rise’ out of me.”

2. “Maybe I’m being oversensitive and my button really isn’t being pushed at all.”

3. “Yes, my button is being pushed, and with good reason. Something is really wrong here.”

Options 1 and 2 call more for inner reflection rather than an outward response. Only option 3 is a cause for genuine concern and action—which still isn’t great. But by analyzing the situation, you can rule out “false triggers” that can cause you to suffer unnecessarily or look bad. If someone demonstrates that they can manipulate you by pushing one of your buttons, it can make you appear weak or gullible, and lose credibility.

Similarly, if you’re shown to be “oversensitive,” co-workers will be less likely to trust your judgment in other matters. Even if you have a valid point, it can be immediately disqualified with, “Oh, you’re just being oversensitive again.”

So it’s a question of being responsive, rather than reactive, when one of your buttons gets pushed. Knee-jerk reactions never help you. Or as another Buddhist teacher, Za Choeje Rinpoche, once put it, “Someone tells you to go to hell, and you’re foolish enough to actually go there?”

Anger Won’t Help You Stand Your Ground—Quite the Opposite

There are many good reasons not to get angry when somebody pushes one of your buttons. For one, anger doesn’t feel good—it’s basically an unpleasant emotion. For another, it’s very bad for your health, putting you at risk of a heart attack, a stroke or a shortened life-span. Third, anger clouds your judgment, impairing your ability to respond to conflict in the most effective and diplomatic way. And fourth, any angry display in the workplace, even if justified, will quickly get you stigmatized as someone who has “a problem with anger” and who acts “inappropriately.”

So no matter how unjustly you feel you’ve been treated, anger is not an option. Avoiding anger in the workplace is a two-fold challenge. First, you must learn not to flare up in the immediate heat of any confrontation that arises. For this, any of the basic mindfulness techniques covered in the previous chapters will be helpful. Mindful breathing is your first and best resource. Allow yourself a deep, slow breath before responding to a confrontational situation. Taking three deep breaths is even better. A verbal confrontation isn’t a sword fight. It’s sometimes better to take a mindful pause than to get in a quick parry.

A little mindful breathing will help create a bit of distance between you and the situation—a small space in which anger can subside as you consider a more rational response. Practicing the RAIN method can also be helpful in this kind of situation. Of course, this is where having a regular, daily meditation practice will really come to your aid. If your first-ever effort at mindful breathing takes place in the heat of a tense situation, it will be like trying to put out a five-alarm blaze with a squirt gun. But if you have a firm foundation in meditation, you can get to a place of relative calm much more quickly.

Meditation will help you cultivate what’s known as the “witness state,” which will help you keep your cool in confrontational situations. Don’t get too caught up in the action. Allow a part of your mind to watch the proceedings unfold, as if you were watching a movie or TV show. Just keep breathing slowly and gently. But if you feel you’re going to flare up, get out of the situation any way you can—especially if the confrontation is taking place in front of others, such as in a meeting.

There are all kinds of standard, corporate tactics for this. Ask, “Can you give me a little more time and get back to you with an answer?” or suggest, “Perhaps we should continue this conversation at another time.” If the topic is off-subject, say, “As this isn’t really on the agenda, can we put it aside for now?”

In short, extricate yourself any way you can. It’s better to run away and live to fight another day.

And that brings us to the second challenge of avoiding anger in the workplace. Ultimately, you don’t want it to be an ongoing fight. While it’s wise to sidestep a heated confrontation, you don’t want to be seething with bottled-up anger forever after. The situation will only keep recurring unless you address it on a more fundamental level. This is where these hardcore mindfulness strategies can come into play.

Exchanging Self for Other

This time-honored Buddhist practice is especially handy when dealing with difficult co-workers. Basically it goes like this: If someone is causing you to suffer, it’s because they’re suffering too. It’s obvious when you think about it. What makes a person want to bully, abuse or deceive another person? Countless examples from history and psychology have shown that it’s usually some deep-seated inner pain that causes this kind of behavior.

By thinking in this way, you can start to cultivate compassion for your workplace antagonist. Rather than being enemies, you now have something in common: You’re both suffering. You might ask yourself, “What kind of terrible pain would make this person act like such a jerk toward me?” You don’t know their life history, so you don’t really know what motivates them. Maybe it was some horrific abuse suffered in childhood, a faithless spouse or a financial catastrophe. Now imagine for a moment that you’re that person. Think how much pain you’d feel in such circumstances. Maybe you’d act like a jerk to your workmate as well.

By exchanging self for other, you can also develop an understanding and appreciation of your adversary’s viewpoint on a particular issue which is causing you to clash. Maybe she belongs to a different department and has priorities that are unlike your own. Maybe he’s under pressure to cut costs or increase productivity, whereas you’re not. In workplace disputes, we sometimes dig our heels in needlessly. We throw our vehement support behind a policy or initiative just because someone else opposes it. By exchanging self for other, we pull the camera back, take a broader perspective and loosen our grip on our particular point of view.

This certainly makes it less painful when we don’t get our way. And it makes it possible not to bear a grudge against the one who has prevailed. In Buddhism, this is called “offering the victory to others.” You say, “Here, take it. May it alleviate the suffering that makes you so difficult to work with.” To quote Thubten Chodron again, “Being right has nothing to do with being happy.”

Making Your Adversary Your Teacher

A person who gets on your nerves can provide an excellent opportunity for self-examination. If you’re that upset, you really have to ask yourself, “Why does this person bother me so much?” In examining the question, you might learn something of value about yourself. Sometimes we dislike a person intensely because they mirror something in ourselves that we dislike or are afraid of.

Handled in the right way, a confrontation with a difficult person can become an opportunity for self-discovery and self-healing. Had this person not come into our life, we may have never had this opportunity. So it’s actually possible to cultivate gratitude toward our workplace nemesis.

Those who accept the idea of karma feel that we actually attract these difficult people into our lives so that we may learn a vital lesson. And if we don’t learn it this time around, we’ll only meet the same difficult person in another form—in our next job or our next lifetime. So we’d better look sharp.

Mindfulness, a very simple form of meditation, has been proven to increase calm, reduce depression and help combat anxiety associated with our increasingly frantic existence. In this special guide, the technique is explained in clear, everyday language, with additional information on its spiritual roots and present-day application. Buy a copy today.

====== 7 ========

Review: Bird Box Is a Featherweight Thriller

Post-apocalyptic horror thriller Bird Box will undoubtedly get plenty of traction on Netflix thanks to the star power of its cast and the evergreen popularity of genre films, but it’s an overstuffed concoction that isn’t very scary or suspenseful, and it certainly doesn’t fly as high as any of the truly great horror films released this year like A Quiet Place, Hereditary and Mandy.

Academy Award winner Sandra Bullock stars as expectant mother Malorie, who’s forced to become a survivalist when supernatural forces decimate the world’s population. One look at these creatures—who we never see—causes your eyes to glaze over and moisten, then you go insane and commit suicide, by whatever means is handy. After surviving a chaotic early set piece of carnage and destruction on a massive scale, Malorie and her unborn child make it to a house where several strangers who’ve also evaded the outbreak have found shelter. The house, with windows boarded up, is owned by an unhinged alcoholic (John Malkovich) who’s at odds with Malorie from the outset. Trevante Rhodes (Moonlight), Danielle Macdonald (Patti Cake$), Lil Rel Howery (Get Out), Rosa Salazar (The Maze Runner), BD Wong (Jurassic World) and rapper Machine Gun Kelly play other temporary residents. Sarah Paulson plays Malorie’s sister.

As you can see, the cast has no shortage of stars. These are fantastic actors, and they will all do great work again, but one of the film’s critical flaws is its lack of focus; most of the players aren’t given a chance to leave much of an impression. There are too many characters with too little to do. Jacki Weaver, who can have the screen presence of a volcano when given great material, is barely given an opportunity to even register here.

On paper, Bird Box looked like a sure thing. It has a talented cast, an Oscar-nominated screenwriter, and a celebrated director (Susanne Bier) who’s done incredible work in her native Denmark (In a Better World) and on British TV (The Night Manager), but it never adds up. Prior to release, and based mostly just on the plot, comparisons have been made to A Quiet Place. This movie has much, much more in common with M. Night Shyamalan‘s The Happening. Adapted by Arrival scribe Eric Heisserer, Bird Box is based on the novel of the same name by Josh Malerman, which was released four years before A Quiet Place. Malerman has said he wrote the rough draft before The Happening was released in 2008.

It’s not easy to make a horror picture with an entirely unseen killer work. The Happening certainly didn’t pull it off. The original Final Destination did it rather well. The central conceit of Bird Box—the fact that these people have to shut the light out in order to survive—was a great opportunity for some spooky atmosphere, but the picture, attractively photographed by Salvatore Totino, looks like a well-produced network drama series, rarely eery.

Related: The 15 Best Slasher Movies of All Time

There are interesting ideas in Bird Box, absolutely. They’re underdeveloped and they get lost in the mix, though. A theme of how far parents will go to protect their children comes up here and there, but Bullock is far more committed to it than the script is. A Quiet Place explored that thematic territory so much better. That really was the only theme of John Krasinski‘s gloriously streamlined, airtight fright-fest—the only one it needed.

The storytelling of Bird Box is nonlinear, and a framing device is problematic because it more or less spoils the bulk of the film for us, before it even gets underway. A key sequence at the end of the second act is so unusual, improbable and physically awkward (you’ll know it when you see it) that it inspires laughter. It almost seems like it’s intended to be funny, but it’s not clear if that’s the case. Either way, this is the point of the story when tension should be the tautest, and it is deflated.

This strangely funny climactic scene is not the film’s most critical flaw, though. That would be a plot thread that essentially states people with serious mental health problems are immune to the effects of the creatures—because, you know, they’re already crazy. This is misjudged, not to mention potentially hurtful to people who struggle.

The best part of Bird Box is Malkovich. His performance is at times compelling, at times campy, and absolutely never boring—in a thriller that, frankly, is in need of more thrills. The million-watt charms of Rhodes are luminous as always, but the character he’s given is fairly one-note.

Many will see Bird Box, and it’s likely many viewers will get a lot of enjoyment out of it—but as a thriller, it’s tough to recommend.

Related: 10 of the Best Movies Ever Made About Mental Health

Running time: 117 minutes

Not rated. Contains graphic horror violence, language and some sexual content.

Bird Box will receive a limited release in theaters December 13, and will hit Netflix streaming December 21.

====== 8 ========

15 Books That Make Perfect Holiday Gifts for the Whole Family

The holidays are upon us as another year flies by which means it’s time to get to shopping for your loved ones. If you find yourself looking through your list of recipients and find that you have no idea what to gift them, we have the perfect book gift for everyone on your list, featuring some of the year’s stand-out books.

For busy moms

One Minute to Zen: Go From Hot Mess to Mindful Mom in One Minute or Less by Ali Katz

If you know a busy mom who’s always on the go, this book from Ali Katz will bring them new insight into how to tackle the new year. With personal anecdotes and techniques to reduce stress and live peacefully, every mom can benefit from One Minute to Zen.

For the hopeless romantic

Love in Catalina Cove by Brenda Jackson

Vashti Alcindor is desperate for a new start in Brenda Jackson’s latest book, but when she returns home, she quickly realizes that it won’t be as easy she had hoped. Falling for the town’s sheriff and finding her way with a new family, Vashti will learn the true definition of love.

Related: 12 Books to Give Your Pop Culture-Obsessed Pal This Year

For the environmentalist

The Same River by Lisa Reddick

Jessica Jensen has always felt a connection to the Nesika River in Oregon and when the future of that river comes under fire, she gets ready to take action. Magically joining forces with a Native American woman from the past, the two do everything in their power to save the beloved river.

For fantasy fanatics

Fire & Blood: 300 Years Before A Game of Thrones by George R.R. Martin

Fans of fantasy and Game of Thrones will love this in-depth story about the history of Westeros. With scenes of fierce dragons and the full history of the Targaryen empire, this book is a must-read for those who are patiently awaiting the premiere of the final season on HBO in 2019.

Related: Literary Accessories Every Bookworm Needs

For the memoir lover

Boot Language: A Memoir by Vanya Erickson

Growing up, Vanya Erickson had to learn to rely on herself as her parents often neglected her. Having found her own success later in life, Erickson looks back at the experiences that shaped her as a woman and the ways in which she has come to forgive her mother and father.

For the man who loves to cook

Fit Men Cook: 100+ Meal Prep Recipes for Men and Women by Kevin Curry

Fitness influencer Kevin Curry is dead-set on the fact that healthy meals can also be exciting and full of flavor. In his latest cookbook, Curry shares over 100 recipes that are perfect for busy people who don’t always have time to meal-prep or spend the entire evening in the kitchen.

For the kids

The Circus Thief by Alane Adams

The Circus Thief is a charming picture book that the children in your life will adore. Young boy Georgie falls head over heels for Roxie, a show horse at the circus. But when he finds out the circus is sending her to a work farm, he and his father make a courageous decision to save the horse.

Related: Watch Sean Hayes and Husband Scott Icenogle Unleash Holiday Cheer in Plum

For the HGTV fan

Homebody: A Guide to Creating Spaces You Never Want to Leave by Joanna Gaines

HGTV star Joanna Gaines gives readers inspiration to start the renovation process and create a space that represents your personality. Filled with Gaines’ best tips for decorating and exclusive design tools, Homebody will teach fans how to get the Fixer Upper style they are trying to achieve.

Related: Joanna Gaines’ Best Design Advice—’It’s About Telling Your Story’

For the teens

Select Few by Marit Weisenberg

Julia has taken to life on her own after escaping her family’s greedy clutch. Now, agreeing to separate from her boyfriend, she teams up with a fellow wanderer who will help her track down her father and his dark underworld. In Select Few, Julia learns how to be a true hero.

For fans of historical fiction

Tony’s Wife by Adriana Trigiani

When Chi Chi and Saverio first met in 1940, all they wanted was to find music success during the big band era. But as the music duo find success and fall for one another, they’ll be forced to make the ultimate sacrifice: fame or family?

For the music fanatic

Beastie Boys Book by Michael Diamond and Adam Horovitz

This New York Times best-seller brings music fans back to the early ’80s and the story of hip-hop group Beastie Boys. Written by members of the group, this book shares personal details about their rise to stardom and all the hiccups they encountered along the way—the perfect read for anyone who loves Beastie Boys.

For the sports enthusiast

The Mamba Mentality: How I Play by Kobe Bryant

Get inside the mind of Kobe Bryant as he opens up about the ways in which he wants to show players and spectators the true beauty of basketball. Sharing details about how he trained both mentally and physically, Bryant breaks down the reasons why he has become a basketball icon.

For the ambitious career woman

You Are a Badass Every Day: How to Keep Your Motivation Strong, Your Vibe High, and Your Quest for Transformation Unstoppable by Jen Sincero

For anyone who needs a boost in the new year, this book will give you the tools to stay motivated and continue chasing your goals. This new book provides readers with 100 exercises to keep on track and focused on building the successful life you deserve every day.

Related: 10 of the Top-Selling Self-Help Books of All Time

For your grandparents

Once Upon A River by Diane Setterfield

When a stranger brings a girl he presumes is dead to a local inn, everyone within the establishment is shocked to find out that, hours later, she’s somehow survived. Now conscious, the parties involved learn that she is mute and when three families come to claim her, dark secrets arise.

For the thriller junkie

The Other Wife by Michael Robotham

Joe O’Loughlin has always believed that his parents had the perfect relationship. But when he arrives at the hospital to visit his father after an attack, he finds another woman there—a woman who isn’t his mother, launching him into his own investigation of who his dad really is.

Related: Author Janet Evanovich on Her Next Big Career Move, Worst Summer Job and Jersey Roots

====== 9 ========

A Brain Teaser on Age and Birth Year

The last two digits of my birth year are the same as my age today. Can you state with 100 percent certainty how old I am?

—Thomas Maxwell, West Palm Beach, Florida

Readers, here’s how to solve this fun problem. Say you were born in 1980. You would be 80 years old in 2060, so that’s when the last two digits of your birth year would match your age. So how old is Thomas now? The last two digits of the year of anyone’s birth range from 00 to 99. Doubling only two of those numbers (9 and 59) results in the last two digits of the year now (the 18 in 2018). Thomas isn’t 9 years old (born in 2009) because his age has two digits. So he must be 59 years old (born in 1959).

====== 10 ========

Why You Should Never Use the Popcorn Button on Your Microwave

This may seem like a silly question, but I’ll bet a huge number of your readers would love to know the answer: All microwave ovens have a popcorn button, but every popcorn box instructs you not to use it. Why?!

—Ashley B., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Hey, I love questions like this! The answer is that many popcorn buttons are simply timers, and pre-setting a time is not a good way to produce the best popcorn. Many varieties are marketed, and their optimal popping time differs. You should follow the instructions on the box about listening to the individual pops. If you don’t, you may wind up with underpopped corn (not fluffy and too many kernels) or scorched popcorn.

====== 11 ========

Nexus4: Connect the dots - November 25, 2018

To solve online, click the link below the puzzle.

How to play Nexus4

Also, try Nexus4 for beginners and Other Nexus4’s

Solve online (thanks to J. Eric Ivancich)

About Nexus Puzzles

If you like Numbrix, try Jadium, usually a harder version.

====== 12 ========

Remembering Glen Campbell: His Wife Shares Her Story of Caregiving During His Alzheimer's Battle

It was a hot August day at Abe’s Garden memory care facility and residential community in Nashville. The sunny morning had rolled into an overcast evening as the staff prepared dinner for the residents and some visitors. The late afternoons were typically quiet, but this day, two musicians—a violinist and a cellist from the Nashville Symphony—set up in a common area and soft music began to play just outside the room of one of the residents, country music star Glen Campbell.

“We opened the doors so the music would flutter into his room,” says Kim Campbell, 60, Glen’s wife of 34 years. “He had his family holding his hand, he had music filling the room. It was beautiful, tranquil and serene.”

The next day, on August 8, 2017, Glen, who had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease in 2011, died at age 81.

A Wild Ride to Stardom

Glen Travis Campbell, the seventh son of 12 children, grew up on a farm—his father was a sharecropper—near Delight, Arkansas, about 90 miles southwest of Little Rock. When he was 4 years old, a $5 three-quarter-size Sears, Roebuck and Co. guitar arrived via mail order from his uncle, and his hands, calloused from picking cotton, immediately took to the strings. By age 6, Glen was performing on local radio and by his teens he was playing in bars in town. In 10th grade, he quit school and moved to Albuquerque, where he played in his uncle’s band.

The early 1960s found Glen Campbell in Los Angeles working with a group of session musicians called the Wrecking Crew. He played on records for Elvis, Frank Sinatra and the Beach Boys (including “Pet Sounds” in 1966) and even filled in for Brian Wilson on a Beach Boys tour in 1964 and ’65.

In the later ’60s, Glen began charting his own hits, including “By the Time I Get to Phoenix” and “Wichita Lineman.” The catchy songs and his boyish good looks led to TV and movie gigs—a starring role opposite John Wayne in the 1969 movie True Grit and his own show, The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour on CBS from 1969 to 1972.

“Glen was born with music in him,” says his longtime banjo player, singer-songwriter Carl Jackson. “He was the most talented vocalist I ever heard in my life. He had perfect pitch and the greatest control of anybody I’ve ever seen. And he was so at ease. To him, performing and playing and singing was just like falling off a log.”

Looking for Love…

Over the years, the hits (“Rhinestone Cowboy,” “Southern Nights”) and the accolades—six Grammys, 1968 CMA Entertainer of the Year, three American Music Awards and, later, induction into the Country Music Hall of Fame and the Grammys’ Lifetime Achievement Award and a Career Achievement Award from the Academy of Country Music—kept coming.

So did the marriages.

Glen was married to Diane Kirk from 1955 to 1959 (they had a daughter, Debby), to Billie Jean Nunley from 1959 to 1976 (they had three children, daughter Kelli and sons Travis and Kane) and to Sarah Davis from 1976 to 1980 (they had a son, Dillon). Following his third divorce, Glen briefly and tempestuously dated fellow country star Tanya Tucker.

Then, Carl Jackson set him up on a blind date with the former Kimberly Woolen, a dancer, whom he married in 1982 and often credited for straightening out his life.

“Glen wouldn’t have made it through those times without her,” says Jackson. “I’ll go as far sometimes as to say Kim saved his life.”

Glen and Kim were together over three decades. He continued to release an album almost every year, and they had three children (sons Cal, 35, and Shannon, 33, and daughter Ashley, 31). Although they led a relatively quiet life, the couple weathered some tough times, as Glen, who had struggled with drug and alcohol problems in the past, had several well-publicized relapses.

Related: Ashley Campbell Opens Up About Remembering Her Father, Glen Campbell and Her New Album

The Diagnosis

The biggest challenge of their lives, though, would come when the singer was first diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment in 2009, then with Alzheimer’s in early 2011. Although the official diagnosis was a shock, there had been clues that something was off.

“The early signs were forgetfulness, repeating himself,” says Kim, adding that she tried hard to explain them away. “But then he became very demanding. If he came home and I wasn’t there, he’d call me. I’d answer and say, ‘I’m at the grocery store.’ Two minutes later, he’d call again. If I didn’t answer I’d get these really angry messages.

Then, when I got home he would follow me everywhere. If I went into the bedroom, he’d go too. If I went to the bathroom, he’d try to go to the bathroom with me. And if I took my clothes off and got in the shower, he would take his clothes off and get in the shower too.” She pauses and says with a laugh, “So there was an upside.”

At first, Kim adjusted to Glen’s behavior, as quirky as it was. Once she did an experiment and walked around the swimming pool 15 times. Glen followed.

“He was really sweet, never asking why we were doing that,” she says. “He just followed me, like my shadow.”

Reasonable questions like, “Where are my golf clubs?” (“In the garage, honey”) turned into questions like, “What’s a garage?”

Then one day, he got lost coming home. And then it happened again. “That’s when I knew we had to go back to the doctor,” she said.

Musical Memories

With all the changes in their lives, one thing remained constant: music.

“Music helped my dad stay active mentally and physically,” says daughter Ashley. “I feel like it helped him stay with us longer.”

Although in later years Glen Campbell’s music no longer seemed to be everywhere, like it did in the 1970s, he had never stopped performing and recording. The year of his diagnosis, he released the album Ghost on the Canvas and announced that he would continue with planned shows. Incredibly, the tour, which included kids Cal, Shannon and Ashley in the band, ultimately expanded from its original five-week run to 151 shows in 15 months. And even more remarkable, the family agreed to be filmed on the road for the 2014 documentary Glen Campbell: I’ll Be Me, directed by the actor-director James Keach.

“It was so important to Glen to do the film,” says Kim. “He really had a passion for letting people know what living with Alzheimer’s is like. He understood that he had [the disease] and knew that he’d announced it publicly. He chose to keep working.”

The movie shared the joy and triumph of Glen’s performances. It revealed how he relied on a teleprompter for lyrics and sometimes became confused selecting the proper key but also, amazingly, how he played melodies to near perfection. It also highlighted the family’s strain.

“Being in the hotel room with him before the show was really challenging because he was in the early to middle stage of Alzheimer’s,” said Kim, who is seen in the film explaining to Glen over and over where they are and what they’re doing, and battling with him not to use a knife or a razor blade to dislodge something from between his teeth. “But when he walked onstage, he just played right to the cameras. It was like a miracle every night.”

Despite still being able to play and sing, Glen struggled more and more as the tour went on. Everyone knew it was time to take a bow, and his final performance was in Napa, California, on November 30, 2012. He released three more albums, See You There (2013), Glen Campbell: I’ll Be Me (2015) and Adios (2017).

After the tour, Glen tried to live at home, but even though Kim had plenty of help, caring for him proved to be too much, she says.

“Our son Shannon, daughter Ashley, her friend Amanda and my nephew Matthew were all living with us, taking turns in teams of two to take care of Glen,” says Kim. “But it was still super-tough.”

Glen had become combative—getting mad and throwing and breaking dishes on the floor. Kim installed childproof locks on the cabinets, but Glen became angry and tore a cabinet off the wall.

“This was a 6-foot-tall strong man and we lived on a busy street. I fenced the back property. I sectioned off the stairs so he wouldn’t fall. I tried to protect him any way I could, but I was at my wit’s end.”

Kim admits she was depressed. She also saw the toll Glen’s deteriorating condition was taking on their children, who were in their late 20s and, to a large degree, had put their lives on hold to help their parents.

“None of us had quality of life,” she says. “Glen didn’t. The kids didn’t. I didn’t. We were trapped by Alzheimer’s.”

Blessed Support

Kim’s next move was to visit the newly opened residential community at Abe’s Garden in Nashville, where a few months prior, she had discussed the possibility of respite care or in-home care for her husband. But that time had passed.

“In-home care was out of the question because I already had a team and it wasn’t working for us,” she says. “Glen needed a specialized environment with people trained to take care of him.”

Abe’s Garden in Nashville was just that place. The nonprofit, established in 2007, is a model of residential, day and community-based programs for people with Alzheimer’s. It’s also a research site in partnership with Vanderbilt University’s Center for Quality Aging. But what’s most striking is the essence of the place—it feels like home, Kim says. In fact, the facility’s three unique households, where residents are housed based on their specific needs, incorporate gardens, activity rooms and open kitchens—and all the programs are designed to evoke memories.

Related: Marty Stuart Shares the Story Behind the Last Photo of Glen and Kim Campbell

As much as it seemed like the right fit, Kim still faced another hurdle: overcoming the stigma that she was “putting her husband in a home.” Ruth Drew, director of information and support services at the Alzheimer’s Association, says this is a common problem. “I’ve talked to many people over the years who said, ‘My husband and I promised each other we’d never put each other in a nursing home.’ But when we are in the circumstances of providing around-the-clock care for someone, we learn that it’s not always possible to give good 24-hour care at home.”

Kim knew this firsthand. But Glen’s celebrity meant that Kim and her family received horrible comments—even death threats—mostly on the internet. But every night when she went to have dinner with her husband or—before he lost his ability to speak—heard him say how grateful he was, Kim was reminded that she’d done the right thing.

“I didn’t just put Glen anywhere,” she says. “Our family joined this community. I know these people, I know their families. It was such a blessing to us, to have that peace of mind that no matter what time of day it was, Glen was being checked on and cared for and loved.”

Once Glen had moved in to Abe’s Garden, Kim had a chance to exhale, ever so briefly. She says during this time, more than any other time in her life, she drew on her faith to move forward.

“I don’t know how I could have walked through this without my relationship to the Lord,” she says. “My husband was lost in dementia; it consumed my life. So I had to make a choice to be happy and productive.”

Kim created a support group for people with spouses with Alzheimer’s, started her blog, CareLiving, and, whenever possible, attended ballet classes and her favorite, Dancefix, to take care of herself and relieve stress.

“No one should attempt to go through this alone,” Drew says. “No one can be on duty 24/7 indefinitely. We’re human beings and we can’t hold up to that. Family caregiving takes a toll and there are ways to come through it well by getting information and support.”It’s been nearly one year since Glen Campbell died. Today, Kim Campbell has made it her mission to get the word out about options available to families dealing with Alzheimer’s. She speaks on the subject and is developing a foundation.

“I know how harshly this disease impacts families,” she says. “People were there for me so I want to be there for them. We’re walking through this together.”

Help for Caregivers

More than 5.7 million Americans are currently living with Alzheimer’s disease. That number is projected to soar to nearly 14 million by 2050, according to the Alzheimer’s Association. The impact on those suffering from the disease, for which there is no cure, is enormous. But the effect on those caring for Alzheimer’s patients is almost immeasurable. Some 16.1 million Americans provide unpaid care for people with Alzheimer’s or other dementias. This year alone, these caregivers provided an estimated 18.4 billion hours of care valued at more than $232 billion.

====== 13 ========

Exclusive Premiere: Lewis and Lee Brice Share 'Blessed' for Thanksgiving With this Live Acoustic Performance

Here’s another reason to think about all that you are thankful for! This video of the heartwarming song “Blessed” by Lewis Brice, performed with his brother, multiplatinum CMA/Grammy nominee Lee Brice is an acoustic gem. “Blessed” is a touching testament to gratitude and these brothers deliver it with earnest sincerity and brotherly harmonies.

When considering what makes him feel blessed, Lewis Brice shares, “To have another year where my family is well, my music career is on the up and up, my friends are still cruisin’ the to the soundtrack of life… That people out there are actually tuning in to these little snapshots of my life, and relating to it their own in some way. For all of that, I’m so blessed!”

Lewis’ brother Lee doesn’t appear on the song recording, but sat in for this special video. Lewis explains, “This song ‘Blessed’ is a family song to me. It was inspired by when I was away from home for the first time during Thanksgiving. Even though I was away from my family, I was with another great family, and I was still able to have the FaceTime call, the pictures and all that. I realized that what I had was very special, and not everyone has family in the same ways, so you have to to appreciate what you have, and most importantly the people in your life that make you blessed. In this case, it was actually a picture of my brother and his family that set off that feeling for me. This video was taken on his bus before we played a show together in Arlington, Texas. Being able to capture the moment of singing a song about our family together made total sense to me, and I think it really rounds it out. Anytime I get to collaborate with him is always a pleasure.”

Watch “Blessed” here, download or stream the song, releasing this Friday, and share what makes you feel #Blessed with the #Blessed hashtag as we celebrate Thanksgiving and the holidays.

Lewis’ debut self-titled EP, produced by himself and his brother Lee, was released via Pump House Music on July 14, 2017, to glowing reviews with prominent digital and streaming placements worldwide, and quickly returned to the Top 15 of the iTunes Country chart. Since then, Lewis has been named one of Rolling Stone Country’s “New Country Artists You Need to Know” and Billboard’s “Country Artists to Watch in 2018.” Tracks from the EP have featured on SiriusXM The Highway, CMT Music and Spotify’s New Boots & Wild Country playlists, and the EP’s lead single ‘Best Ex Ever’ has reached the Top 40 of MusicRow’s Country Breakout radio chart.

Find out more at lewisbrice.com

====== 14 ========

Click here for Microsoft Internet Explorer



====== 15 ========

Enable and disable cookies that websites use to track your preferences

Cookies are stored on your computer by websites you visit and contain information such as site preferences or login status. This article describes how to enable and disable cookies in Firefox.

How do I change cookie settings?

Note: Cookies are enabled by default in Firefox.

To check or change your settings:

Click the menu button Options . Preferences . Select the PrivacyPrivacy & Security panel and go to the History section. In the drop-down menu next to Firefox will: Firefox will , choose Use custom settings for history .

Check-mark Accept cookies from sites Accept cookies from websites to enable cookies, and uncheck it to disable them. If you are troubleshooting problems with cookies, make sure that Accept third-party cookies is NOT set to Never. For more information, see Disable third-party cookies in Firefox to stop some types of tracking by advertisers. Choose how long cookies are allowed to be stored: Keep until:

they expire: Each cookie will be removed when it reaches its expiration date, which is set by the site that sent the cookie.

I close Firefox: The cookies that are stored on your computer will be removed when Firefox is closed. Close the about:preferences page. Any changes you've made will automatically be saved.

Click the menu button Options . Preferences . Select the Privacy & Security panel and go to the Cookies and Site Data section. Select Accept cookies and site data from websites (recommended) to enable cookies. To disable cookies, select Block cookies and site data (may cause websites to break). If you are troubleshooting problems with cookies, make sure that Accept third-party cookies and site data is NOT set to Never. For more information, see Disable third-party cookies in Firefox to stop some types of tracking by advertisers. Choose how long cookies are allowed to be stored: Keep until:

they expire They expire : Each cookie will be removed when it reaches its expiration date, which is set by the site that sent the cookie.

I close Firefox Firefox is closed : The cookies that are stored on your computer will be removed when Firefox is closed. Close the about:preferences page. Any changes you've made will automatically be saved.

Click the menu button Options . Preferences . Select the Privacy & Security panel and go to the Cookies and Site Data section. Select Accept cookies and site data to enable cookies. To disable cookies, select Block cookies and site data and use the drop-down menu next to Type blocked to choose the type of cookies to block. For more information, see Disable third-party cookies in Firefox to stop some types of tracking by advertisers. Choose how long cookies are allowed to be stored: Keep until:

They expire: Each cookie will be removed when it reaches its expiration date, which is set by the site that sent the cookie.

Firefox is closed: The cookies that are stored on your computer will be removed when Firefox is closed. Close the about:preferences page. Any changes you've made will automatically be saved.

Websites report cookie errors

If a website gives you an error message saying that you cannot accept cookies, see Websites say cookies are blocked - Unblock them.

====== 16 ========

Survivor: David vs. Goliath: Dan Rengering Goes from 'Hot Cop' to Left in the Cold

Survivor: David vs. Goliath has arrived! Every week, Parade’s Mike Bloom will bring you interviews with the castaway most recently voted off of the island.

All eyes were on Dan Rengering on Survivor: David vs. Goliath’s 25th night. It wasn’t unexpected for him, considering that he had drawn attention this season due to his close bonds, challenge prowess and idol plays. Nor was it unusual outside the game, as he had gained online notoriety last year as a “Hot Cop” while on patrol. After Nick Wilson threw a Vote Steal into the works, Dan played his second idol, which he assumed only close ally Kara Kay knew about. But in true social media fashion, Dan got thrown up a block in the form of the first-ever “Idol Nullifier.” Thus, Dan was unable to nullify the six votes coming his way, and it seemed the Superman fan found his Kryptonite.

One could argue that Kryptonite came weeks ago when Dan first got settled on the Goliath tribe. The man who underwent life-changing weight loss before Survivor was able to make significant gains in the first couple of days, flirting his way into a close partnership with Kara and finding his first idol. But all was not completely sunny for the man from the Sunshine State, as his carelessness caused Jeremy Crawford to discover the idol, outing the secret to his tribe. The swap sent him away from Kara, but under cover of more comfort blankets with the discovery of a second idol and the founding of “Brochachos Inc.” alongside CEO John Hennigan. These extra forms of protection bolstered Dan’s confidence, which made him bristle against Goliaths and Davids alike come the merge. He fumed when he found out Elizabeth Olson was targeting him, and he and Angelina Keeley failed to become brothers-in-arms with her war metaphors and his attitude towards her. These emotional reactions, coupled with Dan misplaying his first idol at John’s expense, caused Kara to explore other alliance listings. When she leaked the intel about his remaining idol to the Davids, the barometer was forecasting a perfect storm of advantages. First, Nick stole the vote of Alison Raybould to give the David alliance six guaranteed votes. Then, correctly fearing a maneuver was in the works, Dan played his idol on himself, his safety all but guaranteed. But he and Goliaths never expected a “Deus Boudreaux Machina,” as Carl Boudreaux’s Idol Nullifier invalidated Dan’s play, causing his group’s six votes to hit him squarely in the chest without a bulletproof vest.

Now out of the game, Dan talks with me about what led him to attempt his idol play, his reactions to what his fellow Goliaths said about him, and why he turned down treachery to embrace an honest game.

Was there anything at Tribal Council that tipped you off towards playing your idol?

I’ll be honest with you. Before we left for Tribal, Christian told me. He was heartbroken about it, he was like, “It’s you, man. It’s definitely going to be you.” And I was like, “Alright! Well, I’ve got something in my pocket for that, brother.” But when they stole the vote for Alison, that made me really question if I was going to play it for myself or her. My biggest thing was being Goliath strong, and I wanted to make sure everyone on our tribe was taken care of. Then I was like, “They’re way smarter than that. They’re not going to take her vote and then vote her out. They’re still coming for me.” I trusted Christian enough to know they were coming for me.

During the vote, we see you and Kara discuss whether to play the idol on yourself or Alison. Considering that she had spent the episode plotting against you and working with Alison, what did she tell you at that moment?

She actually told me to play it for myself. I’m the type of person who likes to talk my ideas out, even in my personal life. So I thought, “She’s right here, let me ask her real quick.” It kind of worked out, but then it didn’t work out.

What was going through your head when Carl played the Idol Nullifier, considering you had no idea something like that even existed?

I knew I was going home when the Nullifier came out. My first thought was, “Well, this sucks. There’s nothing I can do now.” I could be mad at Carl, but Carl played what was handed to him. Can’t be mad about that. I also thought, “Jeff, really? Why didn’t you tell us about this, man? Come on!” [Laughs.] Like, give me some kind of clue! That way I can be mentally prepared to get taken out like this.

Let’s backtrack to the beginning of your boot episode. You expressed frustration with your fellow Goliaths after John’s boot, feeling that you had made a sacrifice for the team, only to get alienated. Can you elaborate on that?

It was frustrating. We kept talking about being Goliath strong. It was something we said from the beginning because we all believed if a David went all the way to the end, they were going to win no matter what. Everybody loves an underdog story; everybody loves Rudy. That’s where I was frustrated. I played this idol and told everybody I was going to play it for us. Only one person knew about my second idol, but because of Jeremy, everybody knew about my first idol. So I was like, “I’m going to be a team player.” I felt like I was the ultimate team player when I played it for Angelina, who we had gone back and forth on taking out. I was frustrated being left out. As you said, I made a big sacrifice; I played on idol on someone we had discussed getting out. Nobody likes feeling left out, especially in a game for a million dollars.

Did you get a sense at the time that Kara, Alison, and Alec were looking to break that mantra to take out other Goliaths?

I mean, we knew Alec was going to flip when he took out Natalia. [Laughs.] To be honest, I was surprised with Kara and Alison. Kara was my closest ally, and I talked with Alison about being Goliath strong for the longest time. It was definitely a surprise on my part watching it back.

What’s your reaction to some of the things Kara was saying about you throughout the season? There were a couple of times early on when she said you were too clingy, and in this past episode she wanted to cut you because you were too emotional.

I mean, that’s how she views things, that’s fine with me. I can’t be upset about it. Am I emotional? Absolutely. I wear my emotions on my sleeve. The island, home, anywhere I go. It’s pretty easy to tell how I feel. I’m not good at hiding it. That’s just the kind of person I am. Did I think I was dead weight? Of course not. Nobody’s going to sit here and say they were dead weight or an anchor. I didn’t even think I was at the bottom. I just thought the Davids wanted to take me out; I didn’t realize anybody on our tribe [did too].

On the note of your emotions, was that component of your personality something you tried to keep in check going in?

It came out in the natural game of Survivor. You can’t fake it for 39 days; you can’t fake it for a week! You’re going to be who you are out there for the most part. It’s who I am; it came out. I figured there was no point hiding who I was. I wore a S.W.A.T. shirt; I wasn’t trying to hide who I am. I was me 1000%. There’s definitely no conscious decision to hide it.

One of these emotional moments comes at the merge when you angrily react to Elizabeth targeting you. What was prompting that reaction?

I didn’t understand why Elizabeth was targeting me. That was my biggest frustration. I didn’t see that I had a huge social game; I was trying to float under the radar as best I could. So I was like, “I don’t understand.” When most people don’t understand something, they get a little frustrated. If you’re going to come after me, I’m going to come after you 1000 times harder, as hard as I can. I didn’t quite get it. If you’re going after a big physical threat, obviously John is in way better shape than I am. And Alec was sitting there dominating on all of the challenges. I’ve been laying back, trying to be low-key so I wouldn’t be the guy to get taken out at the beginning of the merge. I didn’t understand at all why I was the big target. I mean, now I do! Watching it back and talking to her at Ponderosa, I get it. But at that time, I didn’t.

A couple of times in the game, you discussed the dominant position you were in. Do you feel like there was a point in time where you were overconfident, considering how everything transpired?

Looking back, obviously, I wasn’t playing nearly as good a social game as I should have or thought I was. But sitting there in the game, you think, “I’ve got two idols. I’m golden.” You don’t know a Nullifier is coming, so you think, “That’s two Tribals. As long as I play one at each of them, I’m good.” I was definitely confident out there. But it wasn’t something I started with; it was something that came slowly. I found two idols; I was on Tiva where we won everything but the chicken and eggs. Of course, I was going to be confident. I had John as an ally, Christian and I were good friends, the Goliaths had the numbers. I think anybody who said they wouldn’t be confident in my shoes is crazy.

At your last Tribal Council, there was a discussion on the potential of cross-tribal alliances. Considering what you’re saying about Christian, it seems that, like the other Goliaths, you were also pursuing connections with the Davids.

I talked to Christian about some stuff. We talked about getting rid of Alec. But when he won the immunity necklace, that obviously wasn’t an option. And honestly, as silly as this sounds, I was happy about that. I was like, “I’ve got an idol, he’s got a necklace, we’re going to go up a number. I don’t have to go back on being Goliath strong.” I felt awful. Morally, I don’t like turning my back on people. Christian and I definitely talked about getting rid of Alec until he won the necklace. I remember in one of my confessionals, I was like, “I’m so glad that’s not an option anymore.” I felt terrible about it because I like Alec.

On that note of the promises you make, let’s talk about your relationship with Angelina. It seemed you two never saw eye to eye, but you did end up playing your first idol on her. What was your dynamic like?

Her and I never really got into big battles together. I think it was more like “let me vent about you in the confessionals.” I told her I was going to play my idol on her, so I felt like I had to. That’s just me. When I say I’m going to do something, I’m going to do it. I was hoping it would play into my favor because A. She now owes me and B. I showed the Goliaths I would stick to my word. Angelina and I never had any big clashes, outside when I was like, “Hey, we’re not doing what you want just because that’s what you want. We’re going with the majority here.”

At Ponderosa, you talked about how you didn’t want your kids to see you lying, cheating, and stealing to get ahead. Even after eighteen years, there’s still conversation on Survivor about what stays within the confines of the game and what transcends to life outside of it. Where do you stand on that idea?

I feel like you should be you. If you lie, cheat, and steal in real life to get ahead, then by all means. But that’s not who I am or what I’m going to do. I understand some people are going to do whatever they have to for a million dollars, but I’m not willing and ready to do that. My kids, when they get older, would watch that and say, “Dad. [Sighs.] You shouldn’t have done that!” [Laughs.] I’m going to have to answer to that one day when they’re old enough, and that’s not something I want to do. I didn’t want to be anybody else but me while I was out there, and that’s what I was. I wasn’t willing to give that up, even for a million dollars.

Another thing you struggled with was coming from a team-based environment like the S.W.A.T. team into an individual game like Survivor. How much did that impact your game?

My teamwork got the best of me. With my job being on a S.W.A.T. team, we always take care of each other and other people, doing the best we can to help individuals with their situations and problems. That’s what I did out there. One day, when it was wet, we couldn’t get the fire going. I was beating myself up about it because I’m supposed to be taking care of my people. These are my people, and I couldn’t do it. Looking out for other people instead of myself got the best of me.

You came into the game working your way through your new confidence from your weight loss and social media fame. Considering how the game transpired, did you take that confidence we spoke about into your real life as well?

Absolutely. In my everyday life, I’ve become a lot more confident. I don’t question myself as much as I used to. If I make a decision, I stick with it. Even if I still springboard off of people, I’m more confident. I’ve done something that not a lot of people can claim they’ve done. Playing Survivor is a big deal and made me more confident in real life.

====== 17 ========

Simply the Best: Tina Turner Talks Life, Love, Optimism and David Bowie

“Maybe I’m here for a reason, and maybe the reason is to share my story with you.”

Tina Turner, 79, lives life to the fullest and always has. She shares openly and in riveting detail in her new memoir, My Love Story, from Atria Books. If you want to get closer to a living legend, this engrossing work is decidedly the way to do it. You’ve watched and listened to Turner, the singer and actor, and no doubt marveled at her seemingly boundless energy and determination — as well as at her exceptional talent.

What were the odds that a young woman named Anna Mae Bullock from Nutbush, Tennessee, would rise to the extraordinary heights that she has? You’ll be fascinated by her descriptions of her tumultuous partnership with the abusive Ike Turner, of her work with other music legends, and most of all, perhaps, how she came to be with the man of her dreams, Erwin Bach, whom she met at 46 when he was just 30.

Tina Turner's new memoir is out now and is just in time for holiday giving. (Tina Turner and Atria Books)

With 200 million record sales to her credit and numerous awards, including 12 Grammys, this icon has drawn more concert-goers than any other solo music performer — ever. And considering the breadth of live performance offerings present and past, that is no small achievement.

Turner tells us about suffering a stroke, being diagnosed with intestinal cancer, and undergoing a kidney transplant with a kidney donated from her husband. She writes poignantly about losing her eldest son, Craig, 59, to suicide on July 3 of this year. She prompts us to think about our purpose here, and inspires us to reflect on why things turn out the way they do and how we can move past them when the outcome isn’t what we desired.

“I can look back and understand why my karma was the way it was,” she writes. “And I have never been so completely happy as I am today.”

Do you remember when, in the ’80s, “What’s Love Got to Do with It,” “Better Be Good to Me” and “Private Dancer” charted at 1, 5 and 7 respectively and consecutively? Listeners wanted more Tina Turner. Here’s more from her for Parade.com, and a suggestion of a really great gift idea (hint-hint) for the ardent Tina Turner fan or ’80s music devotee. It’s a great read.

"A romantic Christmas vacation in Gstaad, 1986." (Tina Turner's personal collection)

The first thing that strikes me about your life is that you have lived the good and bad, glad and sad, up and down, back and forth and around and around. You always come back with such a positive attitude and “can-do” spirit. At this stage of your life, to what do you attribute that?

I was born with a Buddha nature inside of me and I’ve always held on to my childhood optimism. I look forward, not back. Hard as it is sometimes, I try to believe that everything happens for a reason. Good comes out of bad. Joy comes out of pain.

When you were younger, and dealing with some of the challenges that would have stopped many people in their tracks, what traits of yours did you call upon to manage those trials and tribulations?

People always ask me where I get such great strength, the strength to survive my childhood, my time with Ike, and now all my medical problems. I don’t think about it that way. I put one foot in front of the other and keep going, one step at a time. “I’ll go on” is my mantra.

With so much emphasis on exercise and fitness in conversations around health in 2018, when you started dancing, and continued doing so in the Revue, you were doing some pretty intense cardio there. Did you just do that naturally, or did you have to build it up?

I’ve been in motion since the day I was born. As soon as I started walking I was hard to catch. My mother was never sure where she would find me — up a tree, under a bed. I had boundless energy. And once I started dancing, I just kept moving. It never occurred to me to exercise. Life was exercise.

You’ve performed with and made friends with so many highly respected artists. It was so fun to read about your impressions of and interactions with David Bowie and Mick Jagger, for example. Among all of them, who do you think may have had the greatest impact on your career — helped you by something they said or taught you or actually did for you?

My fellow musicians have been incredibly generous and supportive. I’m grateful to all of them, but David Bowie will always have a special place in my heart. When I was trying to establish myself as a solo artist in 1983, David told the executives at his record company that he was going to see his favorite singer — me! — at a show at the Ritz in New York City. He started a stampede to the theater. The label (which had been one of my labels, by the way) booked seats, looked at me with new eyes and green-lit a record deal. “Let’s Stay Together,” the Private Dancer album, and my wildest dreams of success followed.

People, women included, can sometimes be quite competitive and critical of each other. You talked about playing to the women in the audience, making them like you on stage. Tell us more about your rationale.

I don’t like it when performers are too sexual on stage in terms of their dress or their actions. That’s a lazy way to get attention and I think it is disrespectful to the audience. I wanted women and men, older people and younger people, to feel comfortable with me. We were there to have a good time together, so I kept the atmosphere friendly.

The population of Nutbush, Tennessee, is still under 300. There’s a sign on your birthplace and a highway named after you. How do you feel about that place now? Do you cherish it, resent it, feel any specific emotions about it at all?

"I'm so serious in my high school graduation picture, which was taken in St. Louis in 1958. I remember feeling very grown-up in my sweater and fitted skirt." (Tina Turner's personal collection)

There were times when I suffered in Nutbush, especially when I was growing up without a mother. School was hard for me. Although I didn’t know it then, I had a learning disability, and I was so ashamed whenever I failed in front of the class. But there’s a wonderful expression, “turning poison into medicine,” and that’s what happened years later, when the very school where I felt so ashamed became the Tina Turner Museum, a place meant to inspire children.

It feels like you naturally kept your ego in check all the way through the stages of your growth as a performer. You said “it didn’t matter if five people came [to a show] or five hundred.” You would give them “your absolute best.” How did you behave in such a generous and professional way all of the time?

I’ve always had a wonderful relationship with my audience, whoever they are and wherever they are. I felt their love and I wanted to give it back to them. We worked together when I was on stage — there was always a real connection.

You obviously have a talent for decorating! And you must have many beautiful and treasured possessions. If you had 30 seconds to get out of your house, what one thing would you absolutely grab first?

Erwin! Seriously, I love beautiful things and I enjoy surrounding myself with them. But they don’t define me. When I left Ike, I had nothing — not a fork or a spoon — and I was happier than I’d been in years.

You also seemed patient and kind with paparazzi and fans. How did you do that consistently?

I get really tired of talking about myself, but I understand that reporters and photographers are just doing their jobs. As for fans…my fans are the best. I remember I had to cancel a concert at the last minute in Sweden because I was sick with a sinus infection. Instead of getting angry, the audience cheered for me to get better. They sent cards and flowers and they all came back when the show was rescheduled.

Before you met Erwin, did you wonder if you’d ever meet “the one”? And if you hadn’t, would you be OK with that?

"On a trip to Russia with Erwin in 2008 for a live performance." (Tina Turner's personal collection)

I wondered if the right man would come along. I had spent so many years with the wrong man that I wasn’t willing to compromise, so there were definitely dry spells. I was so busy after Private Dancer that I told myself I was fine being alone. Of course, that attitude went out the window a few seconds after I met Erwin and learned the meaning of “love at first sight.”

Your health history is not a simple one, and yet, you persevered in true Tina Turner style. If you could go back and do anything differently when it came to taking care of yourself, what would that be?

I took such good care of myself, or so I thought. I didn’t smoke or do drugs, and I maintained a healthy diet. But I wish I had known more about the basic workings of the human body. Information is so important — most people don’t know anything until they’re in the middle of a medical crisis. I started asking all the right questions after I became ill. Why didn’t I ask them before? I didn’t really understand the consequences of high blood pressure, for example — that it could affect my kidneys — and I ended up needing a kidney transplant.

What advice would you give other women in your age group about their health?

Don’t fixate on age — it’s just a number. I was on the cover of Vogue when I was 73. But stay informed about your health, sleep when you need to and make sure that love is a part of your life.

Many would want to have your emotional balance, and your story of “Baptist to Buddhism” is another wonderful irony. What do you say to us about how to say centered, balanced and in control?

I think it is so important to be spiritual — to cultivate the higher part of yourself. As a Buddhist I have my practice, and it really helps me to manage my feelings, especially when life is hard. Every life has its tests, some more challenging than others. But we have to learn from these challenges and evolve.

What’s next on your life to-do list?

Nothing! I announced my retirement and found myself working on a musical, a book and a documentary! My dream is to be without a schedule — to spend time with Erwin and our friends, to take care of my garden, to stare at Lake Zurich and to relax!

Mind Your Body with Stephanie Stephens features celebrities and high achievers age 45+ who share their latest projects, healthy living secrets and more.

====== 18 ========

The Voice: Fun Facts About The Four Teen Contestants On Season 15

The Voice is known for having one or two great young singers each season, several who have gone on to win, including last season’s 15-year-old Brynn Cartelli, who was coached by Kelly Clarkson, and 17-year-old Danielle Bradbery from Team Blake Shelton.

This year there are four young women who have made it into the Top 11 and will perform tonight for America’s vote: Team Jennifer Hudson‘s Kennedy Holmes, 13; Team Kelly’s Chevel Shepherd, 16, and Sarah Grace, 16; and Team Adam Levine‘s Reagan Strange, 14.

Parade.com had the opportunity to speak to the teens backstage after last week’s Live Shows performances to get some fun facts and more.

Sarah Grace (Photo by: Tyler Golden/NBC)

Sarah Grace

“I have been singing my whole life and I picked up trumpet in the sixth grade, and I have been blessed to have both of those outlets. I have been able to take things I learned with my voice and move them to trumpet and I have been able to take things that I learned on the trumpet and move to my voice. The more technical side of my singing I have learned from my trumpet. I never had a vocal lesson until I had a vocal lesson with Kelly Clarkson.”

“I am always wearing some kind of heels or shoes that give me height because I feel good in heels,” says the petite singer.

Chevel Shepherd (Photo by: Trae Patton/NBC)

Chevel Shepherd“I have a pair of lucky socks that I wear onstage and I am wearing them right now. They are mismatched music note socks. I have a black one and I have a white one. I wear the right one on my left foot and the black one on my right foot. It is something I wear on stage every time I perform. I feel without them I am not going to perform my best. That is my good luck charm. I haven’t washed them because I feel as if the luck is going to wash away. They don’t stink though, I promise.

“I used to be a cheerleader and get thrown in the air, so that was fun and I can do a really good horse noise.” Which she demonstrated and it was excellent!

Kennedy Holmes (Photo by: Tyler Golden/NBC)

Kennedy Holmes

“Not all people from my generation listen to music from people of all times, like the 1980s, but I do. I listen to Marilyn Manson and I also listen to smooth jazz. I go to sleep listening to Rain, so I am all over. I am learning about all different styles and genres to become more educated to learn what was happening before I was ever born.”

“One more thing: I also have a birthmark under my lip so people think I have been biting my lip.”

Reagan Strange (Photo by: Tyler Golden/NBC)

Reagan Strange

“I absolutely love chicken tenders with fries, Ketchup and Dr. Pepper. That is my dream meal.”

“Wardrobe helps me stay true to myself. They’re not going to put me in heels 10-inches tall and they’re not going to put me in a crop top. They’re not going to over sophisticate me and that’s what I love. You know that you’re going onstage feeling 100 percent comfortable, so the only thing you have to focus on is your singing. You’re not worried about: Are my pants like I like them? Are my shoes like I like them?”

The Voice returns tonight at 8 p.m. ET/PT on NBC when the Top 11 take the stage.

====== 19 ========

Exclusive Clip: Pure Digs Deep into the Real-Life Mennonite Mafia

The truth can often be stranger than fiction. Such is the case for Pure, WGN America’s newest drama. Living in the era of Breaking Bad, many pieces of pop culture have focused on various facets of the drug trade and mob mentality. But Pure highlights perhaps the most unlikely source of illegal activity: the Mennonites.

Inspired by a Mennonite organized crime ring that smuggled drugs north from Mexico, Pure stars Ryan Robbins as Noah Funk, a pastor who finds himself drawn into actions of questionable morality. The pressure is mounting from all sides for Noah, between gang leader Eli Voss (Peter Outerbridge), DEA agent Phoebe O’Reilly (Rosie Perez), and his own wife Anna (Alex Paxton-Beesley). The teaser clip below highlights Noah’s struggle; while The Who’s “Behind Blue Eyes” echoes in his mind, he debates ending the illicit activities of his own people, who he considers “violent and degenerate.” But the last ominous words do not come from Noah, but another member of the Mennonite community: “The day will come, we’ll all be judged.”

Pure premieres on WGN America on Wednesday, January 23 at 10 p.m. ET.

====== 20 ========

Corporate Mindfulness: Oxymoron, or Gateway to a Better World?

It often takes a personal crisis to impel someone to embark on an active mindfulness program. That’s how it was for Mark Bertolini, CEO of corporate insurance giant Aetna.

In 2004, Bertolini was on a skiing trip in Vermont when he smacked into a tree and tumbled down a 30-foot-deep ravine. He fractured five of the vertebrae in his neck and severed a bundle of nerves running from his left arm to his spinal cord. He underwent extensive medical treatment and tried a full menu of pharmaceutical painkillers, including OxyContin, Vicodin and Fentanyl, but he was unable to make a full recovery. The pain persisted.

“It was as if somebody were burning my arm with a torch all day long, and to this day it feels this way,” Bertolini told the New York Times in 2015. “It’s never stopped.”

Like many in his predicament, Bertolini turned to alternative healing modalities, including acupuncture and yoga. He found these to be beneficial and ended up embracing many elements of the yogic path—sporting amulets emblazoned with Sanskrit mantras and installing a large statue of the elephant-headed deity Ganesha in his executive office. But he wasn’t just flaunting the external trappings of yoga culture and philosophy. In a mindful moment of altruism, Bertolini reportedly gave his lowest-paid workers a 33.3 percent salary hike. And he decided to share with all of them the benefits of yoga and meditation.

In 2012, he set up a pilot mindfulness program at Aetna, partnering with the Integrative Medicine Program at Duke University, the American Viniyoga Institute (AVI) and eMindful, a company that creates mindfulness apps, programs and online courses. Aetna employees took classes in yoga and mindfulness meditation. The Duke medical team monitored key stress indicators, such as heart-rate variability and levels of the stress hormone cortisol. Participants also filled out questionnaires aimed at assessing how much they felt yoga and meditation were benefitting them.

Why all the data-gathering, EEGs and lab work? While yogis may place their faith in their higher selves or the teachings of spiritual masters, the corporate world places its fervent belief in “metrics”—numbers and statistics that substantiate a particular viewpoint or course of action. “Show me the metrics” is the power mantra in the corporate universe. And recent decades have brought an abundance of metrics confirming the physical and psychological benefits of yoga and meditation.

That kind of hard scientific data is what makes it all seem real—less “woo woo”—for Wall Street power brokers such as Bertolini and executives at Goldman Sachs, BlackRock, General Mills and Google, all of whom have instituted corporate mindfulness programs of one sort or another at their companies.

Not that they’ve lost sight of the bottom line. The studies all show that meditation can increase a person’s productivity and emotional resilience. And a happier, more productive worker is one who will yield more profit

for a company—and be less likely to burn out or freak out in the shark tank of corporate life. Ironically, the very people who designed and built the shark tank are now finding that they stand to gain from embracing what is pretty much its antithesis…within reason, of course.

But Bertolini was into it with his heart as well as with his head. He’d experienced profound pain, and pain is one of the most efficient, if least pleasant, catalysts for compassion.

Still, there were skeptics within his own company who he had to convince. To that end, the Duke University study was a good way to slip some mindfulness into Aetna’s corporate culture. Duke set up the lab work, eMindful created a custom meditation app for employees, and American Viniyoga Institute director Gary Kraftstow created a program, adapting the ancient practices of hatha yoga to the boardroom.

Stephanie Harding is the yoga teacher and yoga therapist who administered and taught the AVI yoga program at Aetna’s corporate headquarters in Hartford, Connecticut. She’d first gotten into yoga as a replacement for jogging during a pregnancy in the 1990s. Much like Mark Bertolini, she fell in love with yoga. Harding completed her training at the American Viniyoga Institute in the mid 2000s and remains a member of the AVI staff as a part-time consultant.

“In the AVI training, we learn about stress reduction,” she says. “There are a number of people in our training who come from the corporate environment—including me.”

So Harding was ideally suited to bring yoga into Aetna. “The class is designed for people who have never done yoga before,” she says. “You don’t have to be flexible. You don’t have to get into crazy poses. The movement was very slow and mindful—moving with the breath—because that’s the style of Viniyoga.”

The classes were free of charge to employees and strictly on a voluntary basis—although participants in the initial study were screened to fit certain statistical parameters.

“Because it was initially a scientific study, there was a selection process to get into the program at first,” Harding explains. “Employees had to agree to fill out questionnaires and participate in certain tests. So there was a core number of people who were in the study. And then, after the study was published in the Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, it continued as a regular yoga class.”

The class sessions were much like the beginner’s yoga classes Harding teaches to the general public, with a few exceptions. “First of all, we were giving people some fairly scientific information on why yoga helps stress, and how stress affects the body,” she says. “I sometimes do that in my regular classes as well—but not to the same extent. Also, because we were in a corporate environment, there was no Sanskrit, no chanting, no philosophy. It was strictly movement and breath. That was the main difference between this and other classes I teach. We treated yoga as an intervention for stress.”

And did it work? “The people who stuck with it definitely felt the benefit,” Harding says. “I could see how they were when they walked into class—the tension in their necks. You could see their shoulders hunched up, almost to the ears. And then by the end of class, they’re in a resting pose and you could hardly get them up off the floor. They were just so relaxed.”

So, did Bertolini and other top Aetna executives don their Lululemon yoga togs and get into a Downward-Facing Dog pose alongside the marketing intern, the regional assistant sales manager and the guy from maintenance? Not quite.

“At least in the classes that I taught, which were at Aetna’s headquarters, the people I worked with most were either call-center people or IT people,” Harding says. “But sometimes, not too often, you could tell that there were management people who would also attend.”

Sustaining attendance is one of the major challenges of yoga classes in the workplace, and Aetna proved no exception.

“People would drop in and out,” Harding says. “That’s what it’s like in any yoga classes, but in a corporate environment it can be even worse. The pull of work sometimes makes it difficult for people to attend. They’re traveling or they have to be in a meeting. So there would be a limit to what they could get out of it.”

But even a little benefit can make a big difference. Approximately 13,000 Aetna employees (roughly one quarter of its 50,000-strong workforce) attended at least one class, either in Hartford or at another Aetna office in California. According to Aetna’s figures, those who did reported a 28-to-36 percent reduction in stress levels, a 20 percent improvement in the quality of their sleep and a 19 percent reduction in any pain they were experiencing. Cortisol levels and heart rate variability also decreased measurably.

“The biostatisticians were beside themselves,” Bertolini told the Times.

Worker productivity went up, gaining an average of 62 minutes per week, which Aetna values at $3,000 per employee, per year. So if the 13,000 employees who took mindfulness training all added $3,000 to Aetna’s annual profits, that amounts to an impressive $39 million. And if all 50,000 Aetna employees were to get mindful to the tune of $3,000 annually, the corporation would enjoy an even more impressive $150 million bump in profitability. And that’s not even counting the additional $2,000 per employee savings in health care costs that Aetna calculates it can reap from the health benefits of mindfulness. Metrics like these can make mindfulness an easy sell to shareholders.

But of course you can’t put a price on happiness. On a purely subjective level, that was perhaps the greatest dividend to be reaped from yoga and mindfulness training at Aetna.

“People would tell me how much they appreciated the class and how much better they felt afterwards,” Harding says. “And we’d have returnees also. There was a core group of people who, as much as they could, would come back to class. So all of that has to be a positive outcome. Do they then carry goodwill, calm and serenity back into the workplace? That I don’t know.”

But if some of that good feeling permeates the workplace for even an hour after a yoga class or mindfulness break, that’s a significant step forward. Of course, if corporations were truly to embrace mindfulness, there would be no more predatory lending practices or insurance policies, no more insider trading, toxic assets, cyber-monopolies or employee intimidation or harassment. That’s certainly a beautiful thought—a possibility to hold in mind, a dream to cherish.

Meanwhile, in the here and now, mindfulness is all about baby steps—accepting gradual progress rather than searching for quick fixes and magic bullets. “Be the change you wish to see in the world,” Mahatma Gandhi famously said. In other words, it all starts with you. True mindfulness will not render you passive or complacent—a better corporate robot.

Instead, it will help you to become more actively compassionate and committed to making any situation better for all involved. Bringing a little mindfulness into the office might seem a small thing. But its positive consequences could be bigger than you might imagine.

Mindfulness, a very simple form of meditation, has been proven to increase calm, reduce depression and help combat anxiety associated with our increasingly frantic existence. In this special guide, the technique is explained in clear, everyday language, with additional information on its spiritual roots and present-day application. Buy a copy today.

