====== 1 ========

THE HIPPOCAMPUS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND PHYSICAL HEALTH

is nothing more than good and a bad memory. —Albert Schweitzer

The hippocampus is a key area of the brain involved with basic function, part of the temporal lobe and intimately related with the amygdala. The hippocampus is involved with memory storage and retrieval, while the amygdala is best known for its role in and alarm in the face of potential threats. When functioning properly, the hippocampus is thought to create an appropriate context for , helping to support a coherent narrative of what is and is not really dangerous, keeping the amygdala regulated so that it is active only when appropriate...and buffering against excess , both from the and internally-generated.

Posttraumatic and stress-related effects

In conditions where fear-based responses have become poorly regulated, such as , the hippocampus has been found to be smaller in size and less effective at grounding the alarm signaling of the amygdala. It isn’t clear whether having a smaller hippocampus is the result of , a factor which predisposes to developing PTSD, or both. While there are many studies showing an association between PTSD and other conditions, and smaller hippocampi, there are only small twin studies comparing traumatized with non-traumatized suggesting that smaller hippocampi may be a risk factor for subsequent PTSD. On the other hand, animal studies have shown that chronic stress directly reduces the size of the hippocampus, and effective treatment can increase the size of the hippocampus and other brain regions. Most likely, there are complex two-way among hippocampus size, environmental factors, and risk for positive and negative impacts on well-being.

Such persistent activation of threat-response systems when no threat is present is associated with negative health effects due to connections between the hippocampus and other parts of the brain, including the HPA-axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) which regulates stress such as cortisol and adrenaline in the brain and body. In fact, the hippocampus has been found to play a role in well-being beyond its role in PTSD.

Self-esteem, health and the hippocampus

In recent research (Lu, Li, Wang, Song and Liu, 2018), study authors highlight the role of the hippocampus for both self-esteem and physical health, seeking to understand if the hippocampus is part of the brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and greater physical health. In reviewing the prior literature, researchers offer key observations. First, higher self-esteem is associated with better health outcomes and longevity, likely via higher reported levels of positive states including , relaxation, and joy. Lower self-esteem, in contrast, is associated with negative health outcomes, with increased risks for and , and use, and increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases.

Second, the the hippocampus is closely involved with self-esteem. This makes sense given that the hippocampus is involved with autobiographical memory, a key part of our sense of self and , how we feel about ourselves and the stories we tell ourselves and others about who we are. Neuroimaging research has shown that the hippocampus is larger and more active in people with greater self-esteem. Finally, the hippocampus is connected not just with psychiatric problems, but also plays a role in physical health. Research has shown, for example, that the hippocampus is smaller in size in Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, chronic and inflammation. The hippocampus is larger, on the other hand, in people with greater aerobic fitness, suggesting it may play a role in overall health.

Does the hippocampus connect self-esteem with physical health?

Given these observations, Lu and colleagues hypothesized that the hippocampus might be part of the underlying brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and physical health. In order to answer this question, they recruited 239 college students for a neuroimaging research study looking at the following factors: self-esteem, via the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES); physical health, via the Chinese Constitute Questionnaire (CCQ), a standard, validated measurement tool of general physical health; and structural MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), to look at the size of the hippocampus in study participants. Researchers then analyzed the data and performed a “mediation analysis” to determine what, if any, role hippocampal volume had in mediating the relationship between self-esteem and physical health.

First, they found that self-esteem and physical health were significantly correlated with one another in their study, confirming the results of prior research. They also showed that in this group of participants self-esteem and hippocampal volume were positively correlated for both left and right sides of the brain. The larger the hippocampi, the greater the reported self-esteem. Furthermore, they also found a positive correlation with hippocampus size and physical health, again for both left and right sides. Replicating the findings of previous research, they reported three key relationships: 1) self-esteem and physical health; 2) larger hippocampus and self-esteem; 3) larger hippocampus and physical health.

Source: Lu et al., 2018

However, while suggestive, these findings alone don’t provide evidence that the hippocampus is a primary player in determining how higher self-esteem leads to better physical health. In order to see whether the hippocampus is part of the pathway connecting self-esteem and physical health, researchers analyzed the data to see whether the connection between self-esteem and physical health remained as robust after factoring out the role of the hippocampus. In other, words, we can see how much the hippocampus mediates between self-esteem and physical health by seeing what happens when we subtract the contribution of the hippocampus, and see what is left over. When study authors performed this mediation analysis, they found that (illustration) there was a statistically significant decrease in the correlation between self-esteem and physical health, showing that hippocampal size is a key factor connecting the two. However, self-esteem and physical health were still related, independent of the hippocampus, showing that it is not the only factor connecting the two.

What can we do to enjoy greater self-esteem and physical well-being?

This is an early yet intriguing finding suggesting that the hippocampus has a primary, but not exclusive, role in determining how self-esteem leads to better physical health. It is tempting to speculate about the role of the hippocampus in identity and sense of self as an overarching influence in providing good sense of self, secure and healthy relationships with others, and as a result better self-care, especially given how trauma can interfere with physical and emotional health, and impair self-care.

On a basic level, however, the hippocampus is involved with regulating key physiological factors, balancing stress and relaxation responses depending on the context, under the influence of “top-down” factors from higher brain centers involved with executive function and conscious control of behavior. Future research can look in more detail at other brain networks involved in hippocampal control, in order to find ways to optimize physical health as mediated by self-esteem, to understand what specific behaviors may influence hippocampal function to foster greater health and whether existing and new treatments can target key brain regions to be more effective.

Does increasing self-esteem increase the size and function of the hippocampus? If so, what are the specific mechanisms? How does aerobic exercise increase hippocampus size, and how much of the health benefits are the result of altered hippocampal function? What tools can we develop to leverage the role of the hippocampus on health? Is the hippocampus involved in the positive effects of gratitude, , and happiness on well-being, shifting the stories we tell ourselves about who we are in literally healthier ways?

How much of a role does the hippocampus play in ensuring we can have healthy relationships with others, a factor which is also associated with better physical health? It makes sense to keep doing things we know help us feel better about ourselves, enjoy greater self-esteem and self-efficacy, and do more of what makes us feel better and be healthier, while looking forward to understanding how best to use emerging brain science to provide additional tools for improving health and quality of life.

====== 2 ========

HAVE WE UNDERESTIMATED THE HARM CAUSED BY LOW SELF-ESTEEM?

Until now, there’s been surprisingly little research on the prime driving factors of self-harm among LGBTQ students who are statistically at a much higher risk of suicide and non- (NSSI) than their heterosexual counterparts. For the first time, a new study, “Psychological Correlates of Self-Harm within Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual UK University Students,” reports that low may have a bigger influence on self-injury behaviors than or .

Source: Sharon McCutcheon/Pexels

Based on the cohort used for this study, almost two-thirds (65%) of students in their early 20s who self-identify as Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual (LGB) had carried out non-suicidal self-harm over their lifetime. Tragically, 35 percent of LGB students in this survey reported an attempted suicide in their lifetime compared to 14 percent of non-LGB students.

Other types of NSSI self-harm are behaviors such as , binge drinking, non-lethal overdoses, cutting, burning, scratching, and trichotillomania.

The authors explain the layout of their latest research on self-harm: "This study explores the association between lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) status and self-harm in UK students. There is currently limited data on this association, and the role psychological variables have in potentially explaining this link, in UK students. We examine whether LGB status is associated with self-harm (both non-suicidal self-injury [NSSI] and suicide attempts [SA]), and whether 4 psychological variables (depression, anxiety, belongingness, self-esteem) mediate this association.”

This study was a collaborative effort by researchers from the University of Manchester, Leeds Beckett University, Lancaster University, and Edith Cowan University in Australia.

"Surprisingly, there is little data on the psychological mechanisms that might explain the association between being lesbian, gay or bisexual, and self-harm in UK students. This data highlights how low self-esteem may leave some LGB students more at risk. Interestingly, anxiety and depressive symptoms did not appear to be important once self-esteem was taken into account,” first author Peter Taylor said in a statement.

Senior author Elizabeth McDermott of Lancaster University added: "Young people's mental is a national concern and this study confirms that lesbian, gay or bisexual young people have elevated rates of suicidality and self-harm compared with heterosexual youth. We know much less about how LGB young people seek help for their mental health problems, or what type of support would be effective."

Anecdotally, I corroborate the conclusion by Peter Taylor et al. that low-self esteem puts lesbian, gay, and bisexual students at higher risk of self-harm. Based on my first-person experience as a gay student in the 1980s who suffered from a triple whammy of (1) clinical depression, (2) crippling anxiety, and (3) low self-esteem—I realized in adulthood that it was primarily my feelings of worthlessness and low-self esteem (more than depression or anxiety) that pushed me to the brink of taking my own life.

Can Physical Activity, Mental Toughness, and Sub-Clinical Narcissism Facilitate a “Sunny” Triad that Combats Low-Esteem?

For the second part of this blog post, I’m going to shift gears and present some prescriptive advice I’ve cobbled together based on a blend of the latest empirical evidence and personal life experience.

Because there’s such a dearth of evidence-based research on the link between low self-esteem and self-harm amongst members of the LGBTQ community, I’ve made myself a human guinea pig and deconstructed specific factors that helped me boost my self-esteem as a gay teen through the lens of the latest research on subclinical narcissism (SN) and the so-called “Dark Triad” (DT) of narcissism, , and Machiavellianism.

After piecing together the latest findings on some adaptive benefits of subclinical narcissism over the past week, I’ve created a new term and coined it: “The Sunny Triad." The ST consists of physical activity (PA), mental toughness (MT), and healthy doses of subclinical narcissism (SN).

Source: diggis/Shutterstock

Last week, I wrote a Psychology Today blog post, “Don’t Believe the Hype! ‘Narcissists’ Aren’t Necessarily Evil" inspired by a study from Kostas Papageorgiou and colleagues at Queen’s University Belfast, “The Positive Effect of Narcissism on Depressive Symptoms Through Mental Toughness: Narcissism May Be a Dark Trait, but It Does Help with Seeing the World Less Grey,” published Nov. 1 in European .

In my "Don't Believe the Hype!" blog post—which tries to dissuade people from indiscriminately throwing around the derogatory label " " without acknowledging that narcissism exists on a spectrum—I share my own stories of overcoming low self-esteem and adopting a “YES! Bring it on. I got this!” mindset as a gay teen. For me, the key to overcoming my tendency to inflict self-harm involved developing some healthy narcissism and a "sense of agency" at a time when I felt my life didn't matter.

Papageorgiou posits that healthy doses of SN are correlated with increased mental toughness, more to Experience (OE) and fewer depressive symptoms (DS). I agree.

Notably, over the years, I've found that music can play a pivotal role in kick-starting an upward spiral of PA, SN, MT, and OE by creating to break a sweat doing some moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). For more, check out this "Subclinical Narcissists' Playlist" of 22 songs I curated to help generate more self-esteem and overall oomph.

As a side note: I realize that the growing list of acronyms herein is beginning to sound like alphabet soup... But each of these factors (SN, MT, OE, PA, etc.) are key elements that can be blended together into a psychosocial concoction that has the power to boost feelings of self-sufficiency, self-worth, higher self-esteem, and lower depression.

Coincidentally, after sharing my latest blog post on the possible upside of healthy doses of narcissism, Gregory Carter of York St. John University retweeted the link with a comment, “An interesting article that chimes with some of the positive outcomes (for the self) associated with aspects of sub-clinical narcissism, also reported in work by me and @DrMDDpsych and other papers with @DrRobertVaughan @YSJPsych.”

After reading Carter’s Tweet, I Googled his research and found a recent paper he’d done with Robert Vaughan, “Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger? Mental toughness, the Dark Triad, and Physical Activity,” (2018) which identified a positive relationship between mental toughness, sub-clinical narcissism, and higher levels of physical activity among elite-level athletes.

This paper by Gregory Carter and colleagues overlayed with the work of Kostas Papageorgiou et al. triggered an “Aha!” moment in my and was a catalyst for my realization that physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism may be part of a “sunny triad” that can increase self-esteem. Based on my own life experience and the empirical evidence provided by the aforementioned researchers, I suspect that combining the "sunny triad" of three acronyms (PA + MT + SN) on a regular basis in day-to-day life may be a recipe for boosting self-esteem.

Over the past few days, I’ve been corresponding with Gregory Carter for a follow-up blog post and Q&A we’re collaborating on tentatively titled: ”Physical Activity May Brighten Aspects of the Dark Triad: Can physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism create a "sunny" triad?”

====== 3 ========

MULTITASKING IN THE MIND'S EYE

Source: Pixabay / CC0 Public Domain

It’s common knowledge by now that multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to go about our daily business. Study after study has shown that when we try to perform multiple tasks at the same time, we end up doing each of them more slowly and less accurately than if we had focused on one task at a time, which is all our actually permits us to do. And while we’re not always aware of this inefficiency in our own efforts at multitasking, we notice it every day in other people. Just this morning, for instance, when I stopped by a local fast food establishment to pick up breakfast, the headset-wearing cashier who approached me at the counter simultaneously took my order while completing an order in drive-thru, and on the way to pick up my food, restocked cups, removed the hash brown basket from the fryer, and set up three cups on the automatic soda dispenser. I was not the least bit surprised, then, when I got to my car and discovered that my two ham biscuits and coffee had turned into a breakfast burrito and hot tea with a cookie on the side. Multi-tasking is, quite simply, a bad idea. Our brains are wired to focus on one task at a time, and to try to do more than that is to fight against our own , neurally speaking.

And yet, fight we do. Flying in the face of the prevailing about the fundamental inefficiency of multitasking, most of us spend our days performing multiple tasks at once because it simply makes us feel like we are getting more work done in a shorter span of time—it gives us the illusion of efficiency. Given our insistence on multitasking, in spite of what the scientific evidence might say, it is comforting to learn that this illusion of efficiency might not be purely illusory after all. New research from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan suggests that, while trying to perform many tasks at once is less efficient than taking them on one at a time, the perception that we are multitasking can, under certain circumstances, actually improve our performance. Srna et al. presented people with a variety of activities that could be viewed as either single tasks or collections of multiple tasks, and compared their performance on the tasks on the basis of which way they perceived them.

In one study, 162 participants were divided into two groups and asked to watch and transcribe an educational video. One group was told they would be completing two tasks simultaneously—a learning task and a transcribing test--while the other was told they would be working on a single learning task meant to test their learning and writing abilities. In other words, while both groups were performing exactly the same activity, one group viewed their effort as multitasking, while the other considered themselves to be performing a single task. When the results of the two groups’ note-taking sessions were compared, the people who perceived the work as multitasking outperformed the group that viewed it as a single task, transcribing more words, showing greater accuracy in their transcriptions, and scoring higher on an unannounced quiz at the end of the study. The perception that they were multitasking significantly improved the first group’s efficiency, as compared to the second, single task group.

In another study, 237 participants were divided into two groups and asked to work on two puzzles—a 15 x 15 matrix of letters from in which they searched for words in a horizontal, vertical, and diagonal pattern, and an anagram task in which they constructed as many words as possible from a string of ten letters. The “multitasking” group was told that the puzzles related to two different studies (perceptual and identification), while the “single-tasking” group was told that the two puzzles were both part of a single “perceptual-identification” study. As with the video transcription study, the group that believed they were performing two tasks at once outperformed the group that believed they were performing a single task, coming up with more words in the time allotted. Once again, the illusion of multitasking appeared to increase efficiency.

The researchers conjecture that the boost in efficiency they observed in the participants who perceived themselves as multi-tasking has to do with their relative engagement in the tasks with which they were presented. Previous studies have demonstrated that people’s for investing effort and attention increases with the difficulty of a given task. The participants’ perception that they were multitasking may have increased their engagement with the tasks because they considered performing multiple tasks at once more challenging than performing one task at a time. This conjecture was supported by physiological measures, in that the multitasking group exhibited greater pupil dilation during their work than did the single-tasking group, and pupil dilation has been shown to be associated with people’s “attentional and mental effort, processing load, and arousal.” The perception that we are multitasking may increase our engagement with a task simply because we view it as a challenge.

Another possible reason for increased engagement in perceived multitasking is the cultural perception that multitasking is a desirable . We may focus more attention on multitasking than on performing one task at a time simply because we wish to be perceived as good multitaskers. Whatever the precise source for this increased engagement may be, the study suggests that we focus more attention on an activity when we perceive it to involve multitasking, as compared to the same activity when we perceive it as involving only a single task, and that this increase in focus makes us work more efficiently.

Srna et al. are quick to clarify that their study in no way contradicts the voluminous evidence that trying to perform several tasks simultaneously is far less efficient than performing one task at a time. Multitasking, in the way most of us go about it, is still a bad idea. When faced with an activity that can be broken down into component parts, however—balancing our checking account, for example, or creating a budget report at work—approaching it as a collection of tasks instead of as a single tedious job can sharpen our focus and give us an edge in the way we execute it. While the reality of multitasking creates the false illusion of efficiency, the illusion of multitasking can make greater efficiency a reality.

====== 4 ========

THE UNEXPECTED SCIENCE OF FRESH STARTS AND FAILURES

A new study published in the journal Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes looked at the effects of “fresh starts” on performance. The fresh start effect, as it’s come to be known, is the idea that a person can disassociate their past performance outcomes from current ones. Temporal landmarks act as a kind of mental reset button to help get us back on track and get us focused on our most cherished goals.

Source: Source: Pixabay

The most common fresh start: January 1st, the start of every New Year. It’s no coincidence, for instance, that gyms see upwards of a 20% boost in memberships at this time.

The evidence has generally pointed to the benefits of fresh starts. They motivate a person to do better in achieving a goal. But now this current research tells us that they don’t always work. They can actually backfire and make us perform worse, not better. The researchers say it has to do with what comes before the performance reset.

Fresh starts are most effective, they suggest, when a person experiences failure before the restart, like how a failed plan in the month of December prompts the need for a kale-only food plan starting Jan 1. But the evidence of this paper is showing that fresh starts should be avoided if a person’s past performance was successful. If a restart is used incorrectly in such instances, it will only hinder future goal-directed behavior.

Source: source: Pixabay

The pros and cons of fresh starts: The study

There were four studies. In the first, participants took part in 10 one-minute word games where they were paid for every word they generated correctly. Halfway through, they received feedback. To manipulate the fresh start, the testing group had a reset applied with the last 5 rounds scored from zero (offering a new starting point). The control group received the same continuous scoring throughout all 10 rounds.

The second study had participants use a performance tracking app. They were asked to focus on a habit they wanted to improve and to imagine using the app to get them there. Resets were applied to all participants. But half of them assigned to a “weak performance group” were led to believe they were performing poorly, while the other half assigned to a “strong performance group” were led to believe they were performing well.

In both these first two studies, a questionnaire measured participants’ and , in addition to performance metrics. In both instances, the only people who benefited from the performance resets were the ones who had (or led to believe they had) been performing less well. And the resets actually hindered the performance of those who been doing well previously.

The third follow-up study used a similar word game. Except this time, participants were given the opportunity to complete a further round of word games that could potentially earn them extra pay. When resets were applied, the strong performers in particular were less motivated to continue on with the additional rounds.

In a final study looking at archival data, the researchers went to a high-performance domain --professional baseball. They were curious to see whether resetting a baseball player’s batting average would depend on their past performance.

Source: source: Pixabay

They could do this because in baseball, a player’s batting average gets reset to zero when they get traded (a natural fresh start). The findings showed that when players’ batting averages were lower than that of their league average (i.e. failed past performance), a trade led to a 3.8% increase in a player’s batting average. Opposite, players performing above average (i.e. successful past performance) led to a 5% decrease.

What to do about it

The takeaway: Fresh starts should be used with care. A person should be more selective in their performance resets, and recognize in themselves the difference between their good and bad past performance. If a person has been succeeding and hitting their goals, it’d be for them to avoid starting tasks on temporal landmarks.

For instance, this can be achieved by exaggerating the of a continued goal process and drawing to the previous periods’ reporting and metrics. A person who’s doing well thus far on a particular project could, let’s say, see Monday not as a new start to the week, but as a regular day that continues from the day previous. Not to condone working over-time on weekends, but it might even help to do a little bit of work on the Sunday.

And for those of us lagging behind in our personal and professional goals, no need to worry – January 1st is right around the corner.

Want to know more about goals, motivation, and peak performance? Head on over to get tactical advice and insights from the latest research.

====== 5 ========

HOW FREE IS OUR WILL?

Source: Pixabay

When I give talks demonstrating that we all have innate psychological predispositions – traits that influence our behavior across our lifetimes – I often get asked what implications this has for . If our behaviors are affected in some way by our genes or by the way our brains are wired, doesn’t that mean that we’re really not that free after all?

The answer depends, I think, on the kind of free will you’re after and on an of the mechanisms by which we make choices. And let me say at the outset that we do make choices. The idea that has somehow done away with free will altogether or proven that it is an illusion is nonsense. All neuroscience has shown is that when you are making decisions, things are happening in your brain.

This is, to put it mildly, not a surprise: Where else would things be happening? And it really has no implications for free will, unless you are a dualist. If you think of the mind as some kind of object that has existence independent of the brain, then I suppose you might be upset to find that your decisions have a physical basis in brain activity. But if you think of “mind” not as an object but as an activity or process – the brain in action – then, well, seeing the brain in action as you make a decision is just what you’d expect.

So, yes, we make choices – really, really. But how free are those choices? How much are they constrained by other things over which we really have no control? How much are they affected by antecedent causes?

In particular, if I have some psychological traits over which I had (and continue to have) no control, and those traits influence my behavior (or at least my behavioral tendencies) then am I really fully in control of my own actions? If someone asks me to a party and I decide not to go, is that because I’m wired to be shy? Perhaps I could have chosen to go, and maybe sometimes I do, but maybe only because I happen to be in a sociable mood or feeling brave that day, and maybe I am not in control of that either.

Well, the first thing to say is that this problem arises no matter the origin of our psychological traits. In my book INNATE, I present the evidence that variation in and in the processes of brain development lead to innate psychological differences between people, which affect the trajectory of their lives, influencing their experiences, the way they react to them, and the types of habitual behaviors they develop. But if you’d rather believe—in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence—that all such traits come completely from experience instead, the problem is just as acute.

If we each have real and stable characteristics of temperament and , then it doesn’t really matter for this question of free will whether they came from genetics and brain development, or our experiences and . In either situation, some antecedent causes have affected the physical structures of our brains in a way that influences our decisions, right now, at this moment. In which case, you could argue, that our will is not so free after all.

In one sense, this is trivial – our decisions, in any given situation, are of course affected by our prior experiences and our current . The whole point of having a brain is that it lets you learn from the results of actions you have taken in the past in various types of scenarios. That information is then used to predict the outcomes of a range of possible actions that could be taken when such a scenario is encountered again.

I don’t think anyone sees that as undermining our free will – indeed, you could say that choosing between those options, based on what we have learned of the world, in order to further our own goals, is the process of free will in action.

It is the idea that the options open to us are constrained somehow by our underlying psychological predispositions that seems to threaten our freedom.

And this does seem to be the case. In the first instance, the range of options that even occur to us – that somehow arise in our brains for consideration – is limited by our personality traits and experiences. Two different people in ostensibly the same situation, with the same primary goal, may nevertheless be choosing from a very different set of possible actions. This is because the interplay of their underlying traits and their experiences across their lives will have created a very different set of additional goals, constraints, and heuristics.

For example, two people in a meeting may share a goal of advancing their ideas on some topic under discussion. But one of them may have a conflicting goal – avoid social at all costs. This may be due to a natural inclination towards , reinforced by a lifetime of experience, where social interaction is not as intrinsically rewarding as it is for other people, and where the subjective feeling of embarrassment is more acutely felt.

Even if it is not consciously perceived, that goal of avoiding embarrassment may act as a powerful constraint on the person’s behavior. They may come home and complain to their partner how they’d wished they’d been brave enough to speak up – instead, stupid Gary who never shuts up dominated the meeting as usual and ended up getting his way. “I wish I had more !”, they might say, conceding that their conscious desires were somehow thwarted by their underlying psychological make-up. ]

The decider-in-chief

This seems to be the type of thing people are worrying about when confronted with the evidence that we really do have lasting psychological traits that influence our behavior. And this worry appears to be more keenly felt when such traits are shown to have a physical basis in the way our brains are wired. It seems to threaten the primacy of our conscious selves in the process.

Perhaps we’re like a puppet president – making “decisions” about what to do, but only from the highly limited set of options presented to us by the generals and civil servants – limited based on criteria we are never aware of. Or maybe we’re not even really making the decisions at all – perhaps even that stage of the process is dominated by factors. Maybe we’re like a magician’s stooge, impelled to make certain decisions through influences beyond our apprehension, with only an illusion of control.

Personally, I think this goes too far. It can certainly be demonstrated that many of the decisions we make are affected by things of which we are not aware. That does not mean that all the decisions we make are like that. Even if we’re on autopilot most of the time, that doesn’t mean we can’t ever take the controls. And anyway, being on cognitive autopilot most of the time is not necessarily a bad thing – quite the opposite, in fact.

The last thing we would want is to have to make decisions from first principles every time we are doing something. If we had to consciously weigh up every aspect of every decision in every situation we find ourselves in we’d be paralyzed by indecision. And we’d quickly be some other critter’s lunch. Life comes at you fast: Vacillate and die.

Habits and heuristics

Instead, most of our behavior is effectively habitual. We learn from experience over our lifetimes that certain behaviors are profitable or appropriate in certain situations – these are the heuristics that subconsciously guide most of our actions. And our behavior is even shaped by our ancestor’s experiences, in the sense that we have inherited a suite of genetically determined behavioral tendencies that were adaptive in the environments and scenarios that our ancestors tended to find themselves in in the past.

Now, some people argue that if we can’t make decisions that are completely divorced from any preceding events, effects, or causes, that we are not really completely free at all. But why would we want to do that? Totally free decisions, uninformed by any prior events, would be essentially random and pointless (and highly likely to get you killed sooner or later).

Being free – to my mind at least – doesn’t mean making decisions for no reasons, it means making them for your reasons. Indeed, I would argue that this is exactly what is required to allow any kind of continuity of the self. If you were just doing things on a whim all the time, what would it mean to be you? We accrue our habits and beliefs and intentions and goals over our lifetime, and they collectively affect how actions are suggested and evaluated.

Whether we are conscious of that is another question. Most of our reasons for doing things are tacit and implicit – they’ve been wired into our nervous systems without our even being aware of them. But they’re still part of us ­– you could argue they’re precisely what makes us us. Even if most of that decision-making happens subconsciously, it’s still you doing it.

Ultimately, whether you think you have free will or not may depend less on the definition of “free will” and more on the definition of “you." If you identify just as the president – the decider-in-chief – then maybe you’ll be dismayed at how little control you seem to have or how rarely you really exercise it. (Not never, but maybe less often than your ego might like to think).

But that brings us back to a very dualist position, identifying you with only your conscious mind, as if it can somehow be separated from all the underlying workings of your brain. Perhaps it’s more appropriate to think that you really comprise all of the machinery of , even the bits that the president never sees or is not even aware exists.

That machinery is shaped by our shared evolutionary past, by each individual’s genetic heritage, by the particular trajectories of development of their brain, and by their accumulated experiences over their lifetime. Those things all shape the way we tend to behave in any given circumstance. That doesn’t mean we can never exercise deliberative and conscious control over our decisions – just that most of the time we don’t (in part because most of the time we don’t need to).

Can we choose not to be a certain way? No, probably not. But can we choose to act in a certain way despite having opposing tendencies – yes, absolutely, in some circumstances at least. This may be effortful – it may require habits of introspection and a high degree of self-awareness and – but it can clearly be done. In fact, one of the strongest pieces of evidence that we really do have free will is that some people seem to have more of it than others.

====== 6 ========

HOW SCHOOLS THWART PASSIONS

This post is a somewhat modified version of the transcript of a TEDx talk I delivered in May, 2018.

Follow your passions. That’s what almost every commencement speaker says to the new graduates. It’s almost cruel. If all you’ve been doing is school and school-like stuff, how do you have any idea what your passions might be or how to follow them? To find and follow your passions you need lots of time and freedom to play. Play, almost by definition, IS following your passions. But we’ve pretty much removed play from young people’s lives.

Source: Max Pixel. Creative Commons

Over the past several decades we’ve continuously increased the amount of time that children spend at school, and at schoolwork at home, and at school-like activities outside of school. We’ve turned into a time of résumé building. You don’t build passions by building a résumé, trying to impress other people. You build passions by doing what you , regardless of what others think. It’s no surprise that people who are famous for their passionate achievements have often declared their dislike or even hatred of school. For quotes about schooling from 50 such people, see here.

Wounded by School

Some years ago, Kirsten Olson, who was then a Harvard graduate student, began to conduct research on the ways that highly successful people were inspired by their experiences at school. She hoped to document how passions were kindled by school. But her early findings led her to turn that thesis around by 180 degrees. The book that eventually came out of that work is entitled Wounded by School. [For my review of the book, see here.] Here is quotation from the book’s forward, written by her thesis advisor Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot: "In her first foray into the field--in-depth interviews with an award-winning architect, a distinguished professor, a writer, a executive--Olson expected to hear stories of joyful and productive learning…. Instead, she discovered the shadows of pain, disappointment, even in their vivid recollections of schooling. Instead of the light she expected, she found darkness.And their stories did not merely refer to old wounds now healed; they recalled deeply embedded wounds that still bruised and ached, wounds that still compromised and distorted their sense of themselves as persons and professionals."

Since the time when Olson’s respondents would have been in school, school has become even more oppressive. Recess has been reduced or removed. Creative activities have been largely removed from the curriculum. Homework has been increased. All in the name of improving scores on multiple-choice, one-right-answer standardized tests. The results of all this are not surprising. Research has shown that over these same decades, creative thinking has declined at all grade levels (here); and , , and among young people have increased (here and here). A 2014 survey by the American Psychological Association found that were the most people in America, and 83% of them attributed their stress to school (here). These are not conditions that promote the development of passionate interests.

My brother Fred

Now I’m going to switch to something happier, and tell you about my youngest brother Fred Carlson. His last name is different from mine because he has a different father. Fred is 12 years younger than me, so he started 1st grade in public school the same year I started college. He lasted there through 4th grade. Around that time my mother became something of a hippie and moved onto a Vermont commune with my younger brothers. Fred left public school then and attended a little free school, which my mother helped to start. The school had no imposed curriculum and he could do there whatever he wished.

That school wasn’t certified as a high school, however, so, at age 14, he enrolled in 9th grade at the local public school. On his second day there the principal told him, “We don’t like you hippie types around here.” So he left and never went back. Then, with no school, he hung around the commune for a couple of years and helped to build a house. He got interested in wood and carpentry. He also got interested in music and learned to play guitar and banjo.

When he was 16 he enrolled in a publicly supported program designed for high-school dropouts. The guy who ran the program asked him what he’d like to do, and he said, “I’d like to build a banjo.” Nobody there knew anything about instrument building, but the head of the program helped Fred find a local person, a guy named Ken, who had a woodworking shop and knew just a little about banjo building. And so, with Ken’s help, Fred built a banjo. After that, Fred used the small sum of money that his father had saved for his to take a 6-week course at a guitar-building school and to purchase the equipment he needed to set up his own shop. The rest is history.

Source: Fred Carlson, Beyond the Trees

By the time Fred was 21 years old, one of his beautiful guitars was on display at the Smithsonian Museum. Ever since then he’s continued to make one instrument after another, each one different from any of the others; each one a new invention. He is famous among luthiers for his artistry, , and craftsmanship. (For one example, see the inserted photo; for other examples, see here.) Fred believes, and so do I, that if he had stayed in school he would never have found his passion.

Self-Directed Education as the Pursuit of Passions

I’ve spent part of my academic researching the outcomes of Self-Directed Education—that is, outcomes for people who did not go to a curriculum-based school, but, instead, educated themselves by pursuing their own interests. These include, many years ago, a study of the graduates of the Sudbury Valley School, in Massachusetts, where students, from age 4 on through late teenage years, are free all day to pursue their own interests; and, more recently, a study of grown unschoolers (see here and here). Unschoolers are people who for legal purposes are homeschoolers, but are not bound by a curriculum and are continuously free to pursue their own interests. The most interesting finding, for our concern now, is that a high percentage of these young adults were pursuing careers that were direct extensions of passionate interests they had developed as children in play. Here are a few examples:

A girl who loved to play with boats went on, as a teenager, to apprentice herself to a ship captain and then became captain, herself, of a cruise ship.

Another young girl played with dolls, as many girls do. Then she started making doll clothes; then clothes for herself and her . At the time of our study she was head of a pattern-making department in the high-fashion dress industry.

A boy was passionate about all kinds of constructive play. He would make whole villages and factories, to scale, out of modeling clay. As a teenager he’d hang around local garages and learn about automobile mechanics by asking and watching. At the time of the study he was a much sought-after machinist and inventor.

Another child fell in love with science fiction. Through that he discovered mathematics and became passionate about it. He went on to become a math professor.

Still another was obsessed with computers as a teenager. At the time of the study he was 22 years old and founder and head of a very successful software development company

A girl fell in love with circuses when she was 3 years old and began training to become a performer at age 5. By the time she was a teenager she was performing professionally as a trapeze artist, and from age 19-24 she and her best friend founded and ran their own contemporary circus company.

A boy became passionate about making YouTube vides with friends at age 11. In his teens he began to study filmmaking. His experience and passion led him to be hired, at age 18, as production assistant by a major film company. At age 20, at the time of the survey, he was working with a famous director in Los Angeles on the production of a major film.

A boy by age 15 was pursuing three passionate interests—wilderness hiking, paragliding, and photography. At age 21, at the time of the survey, he was successfully pursuing a career as an aerial wilderness photographer, combining all three of his passions.

A girl who had previously been in a traditional school revolted, at age 13, and left school never to return. She then developed passionate interests in art, revolutions, and wildlife. At the time of the survey, at age 28, she was a full-time Greenpeace activist, fundraiser, and manager.

Source: Molly and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack MacDonald, with permission

Source: Marley and Akilah Richards, with permission

These are just some of the many examples documented in my research. All of these people were able to discover and pursue their passions because they had left, or had never enrolled in, a curriculum-based school.

More recently I asked some of my unschooling friends about their young children’s passions. Here are three examples of what I learned:

Kerry McDonald’s daughter Molly has several passionate interests, one of which is baking. When someone asked her, when she was 9 or 10 years old, what she wanted to be when she grew up, she replied: “A baker, but I already am one." One thing I’ve learned is that people on the Self-Directed Education path don’t divide life into a period of preparing for the future followed by a period of living that future. They don’t distinguish between learning and living or learning and doing. That’s true when they are children and it’s still true when they are adults.

Molly’s younger brother Jack is heavily into photography. He particularly admires and emulates the work of the famous landscape photographer Ansel Adams. I’ve attached one of Jack’s artistic photographs, called “reflections.”

Akilah Richards’s daughter Marley has a beautiful voice and is deeply into voice acting. By age 13 she already had gigs providing the voice for animations and fan fiction audios. Her voice acting has also led her to learn Japanese, because some of the works she most enjoys were produced in Japan. By age 14 she was tutoring another young person in Japanese.

The great advantage that these young people have in life is this: They are not going to school.

So, How Does School Thwart Passions?

It’s almost too obvious. Schools thwart passions by:

Requiring everyone to do the same things at the same time. It’s not possible for all the children in a room to be passionately interested in the same thing at the same time. Replacing intrinsic with extrinsic motivators, such as grades and trophies. To pursue a passion you have to focus on what YOU want to do, not try to impress others or win honors. Threatening students with failure or , which generates . Fear freezes the mind into rigid ways of thinking and negates the possibility of passionate interest. Teaching that there is one right answer to every question, or one right way to do what you are supposed to do. That’s a surefire way to nip any possible emerging interest in the bud. Teaching children that learning is work and that play, at best, is just a break from learning. But anyone involved in a passionate interest knows that play and learning and work are one and the same.

So, in conclusion, if we want our children to grow up with passionate interests, we must find alternatives to school. Or, at least, we must reduce the role of school and school-like activities in their lives and increase greatly their opportunities to discover and do what they like to do—that is, to play.

What has been your experience with finding and pursuing a passionate interest? Are you one of the lucky ones whose career is a manifestation of passion and play? How did you discover that passion? This blog is in part a forum for discussion, so please share your comments, questions, and stories in the comments section below.

====== 7 ========

IS SOCIAL MEDIA PDA A SIGN OF HAPPINESS OR OVERCOMPENSATION?

Source: John Jones via flickr | CC0 License

We all know those people on social who are constantly posting information about their relationship. Sometimes, we might think, "Oh, that's sweet," if we know and like the couple. Other times, we might find ourselves rolling our eyes and thinking, "Stop showing off and overcompensating." So, are these couples actually happy and our eye-rolling is the function of or disbelief? Or are they really overcompensating?

People often are suspicious of those who share a lot of relationship information on social media. Research has shown that people dislike those who post over-the-top, affectionate social media messages about their partners. Yet, the majority of research actually shows that people who have a couple profile photo, are "Facebook official," or post about their relationship tend to be more satisfied with their relationships than those who do not engage in all this showing off. People are often surprised to hear this, as it goes against their intuitions about couples who frequently post about their relationships.

However, if you step back, it makes sense that happy couples post relationship content on social media. Imagine a couple that is in a committed, happy relationship. They are more likely to have linked profiles and to be a committed couple unit that might post a couple or family photo as a profile photo. They are likely to spend a lot of time together, spend holidays together, and take vacations together. If this couple is moderately active on social media, then they will share photos of social gatherings, holidays, and vacations, which will naturally include each other. So it shouldn't be surprising at all that these kinds of social media posts are associated with higher satisfaction and commitment. In my own research, conducted with two of my former undergraduate students, Amanda Havens and Dayana Petrenko, and Michael Langlais at University of Nebraska-Kearney, we wanted to address the discrepancy between two contradictory intuitions:

The notion (backed by research) that sharing one's relationship on social media is a sign of a happy and committed relationship. The notion that sharing one's relationship on social media implies trouble and may involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship.

In two studies, recently published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, we surveyed a total of 348 adult users about how they used Facebook in their . We asked them to rate how frequently they engaged in general displays of the relationship, such as posting photos or status updates about their relationship or partner. These questions were similar to the types of behaviors assessed in previous research. We also assessed what we called "excessive relationship displays," those that went beyond the kind of relationship displays that these individuals engage in offline. Specifically, we asked how often participants posted:

Potentially embarrassing information about their partner or relationship.

Content on their partner's wall that they would be uncomfortable to say in person.

Content that showed more affection than they normally show in public.

We found that excessive displays were much less common than general relationship displays. We also found that even though they were correlated with each other, the way they related to satisfaction was quite different. As past research has found, general relationship posts were associated with greater satisfaction. So people who have a couple profile photograph and post photos and statuses about their relationships tend to be more satisfied than those who infrequently engage in those behaviors. But excessive displays were associated with less satisfaction. So people who post relationship information that they deem as potentially embarrassing or that shows more affection than they are comfortable expressing in person were actually less satisfied.

In the second study, we also asked participants to rate the extent to which they felt that Facebook had made them feel closer to and more intimate with their partners. Once again, we saw a positive effect for general relationship displays. Those who posted more relationship information on Facebook felt that Facebook helped bring them closer to their partners. Overall, excessive displays were not related to these perceptions. However, for people who were especially low in relationship satisfaction, posting excessive displays was associated with perceptions that Facebook had brought them closer. This suggests that these types of over the top displays are being used to compensate for weaker relationships. First, those who are less satisfied may post Facebook content that shows levels of affection that they aren't displaying in their actual offline relationship. These individuals then believe that engaging in these types of posts has helped their relationship. It's not clear if it actually has this helpful effect on their relationships. It is possible it has no effect or is even harmful. We would need to follow people's relationships over the long-term and to find out how their partners react to their Facebook activity in order to understand the actual consequences of these posts.

These findings demonstrate the paradoxical of social media and its relation to feelings of social connection. In a series of studies published in 2011, Kennon Sheldon and colleagues found that frequent use of Facebook was associated with both feeling connected to others and also feeling disconnected from others. Their explanation for these seemingly contradictory findings is that Facebook can make people feel more connected to others, but it is also the case that those who are feeling disconnected may turn to Facebook to seek out social connections that they are lacking. Something similar may be happening in the case of romantic relationships. People who are less satisfied with their relationships may engage in excessive displays on social media in order to bring them closer to their partners, and social media displays may also help people feel closer to their partners.

Returning to the two competing intuitions raised at the beginning of this post: 1) Relationship posts are an indication of a happy relationship, or, 2) relationship posts involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship. Our research suggests that both are true. The types of displays that simply involve sharing photos and information about one's relationship may indicate higher levels of satisfaction. However, when someone's relationship displays on Facebook reflect more affection than they show offline, it is likely that they are in a less satisfying relationship.

====== 8 ========

HOW TO DECIDE WHETHER TO MARRY

is often wonderful. Many people swear by it.

It’s also bizarre. You’re electing to commit to lifelong devotion, to feeling like wanting to accommodate another person forever no matter who they turn out to be over time.

Having children is elective too, though more like electing to enter an arranged marriage. You get the child that your arrange for you.

In marriage, you’re volunteering to throw all in with someone of your choosing, which, when you stop to think about it, is rash. If instead, you were committing to lifelong devotion to a , you’d be joining a cult.

Looks play a big part in many marriage decisions. Looks are a convincing, often life-altering optical illusion. Nothing appears more eternal than youthful hotness. Yet nothing is quite so perishable.

No wonder marriage is so heavily subsidized by and culture, our bodies insisting on it, our culture extolling it. If it weren’t, we’d never make such a radical commitment. People don’t just marry drunk in Las Vegas. Many marriages are made under the intoxicating influence of hormonal conviction and subtle, yet wall-to-wall social pressure. Still, marriage can be a wonderful thing.

in search of a lifelong partner is bound to make us ambivalent. We’re deciding to stop deciding about someone, in effect, to trust them forever. We’re pouring over details of another person to decide whether we can stop pouring over details and just love them.

Intoxicating hormones have to convince us to overlook lots because we’d otherwise be too cautious. And by now, with less social pressure to marry, our cautiousness gets expressed. We size each other up warily, more in line with what you’d expect from such a humongous decision.

So how best to decide whether to marry in times like these? Here are some tips, with some application to any big decision.

1. It’s the matrimony, stupid.

Courtship wariness can breed meta-wariness, wariness about each other’s wariness. Either of you might begin to suspect the other of “ of intimacy,” or of being ungenerous, paranoid, controlling, , needy, greedy, expecting too much, moving too quickly or moving too slowly, any of which may be true but isn’t necessarily. All of those characteristics are perfectly natural for two people doing this dance on the courtship tightrope before deciding whether to fall toward or away from each other, committing to each other for life or breaking up.



If you both enter into the courtship knowing that you’re on the tightrope, you’re less likely to take the jitters and jerks of the dance as personally, mistaking each other’s caution or zeal for a character flaw. It’s not you or your partner but the humongous commitment your considering making that’s giving you the jitters.

2. Fighting is a red flag; not fighting is even more dangerous.

Kids bicker. It drives their crazy but serves a purpose. They’re learning what works and doesn’t work in the give and take of life. Chalk it up to practice.

Courting couples have to learn how to fight too, learning how to minimize fighting in your give and take. You’re learning where to tuck in or jut out your elbows for the most efficient give and take. You’re also assessing whether you can tolerate the bickering that you probably won’t be able to eliminate. You’re -testing the relationship, which is much smarter done before than after taking your vows.

Again, if you both recognize that this is part of the courtship dance, you’re less likely to escalate into meta-fights – fights about the fact that you fight. As a result, you’re more likely to get a clear reading on what kinds of compromises you’ll have to make if you commit to marriage.

3. Throwing all in to see whether you want to throw all in.

Courtship in general, not just the bickering, is practice marriage, a tentative commitment which is a necessary but complicating oxymoron. You’re both mustering your most enthusiastic effort to determine whether you want to muster you most enthusiastic effort ‘til death do you part. You don’t want to buy marriage until you’ve tried it and you can’t try it ‘til you’ve acted as though you’ve already bought it. So you act like you’ve bought it and see how it goes. You pledge love to see whether you want to pledge love.



You have to. You’ve got to find out whether throwing all in compels your partner to reciprocate or get complacent. You give an inch hoping to discover that your partner will give an inch rather than taking a mile. If your partner takes a mile, run a mile. Get out before it’s too late. But in the testing, test earnestly. Really show up, to see whether you really want to show up forever.

4. In stress-testing the relationship, take pride in your strategic cleverness instead of taking self-protective umbrage.

Showing up is easier said than done, what with your understandable wariness about what you might be getting yourself into. It’s easy to feel compromised by partnership. Romance is the dream that you can just be yourself and loved unconditionally. Courtship starts with romance but moves on to something less dreamy, more realistic. You can’t just be yourself. You have to tuck in your elbows to make room for each other. If you pretend that courtship is like any other no-big-deal decision, you’ll feel surprised, insulted or threatened by the compromises – injured pride. That will throw off your assessment.

The alternative is to take quiet pride in your strategic cleverness. Pat yourself on the back for bending over backward for your partner. Pretty cunning. It’s you skillfully testing how your partner responds. If you decide that bending over that much is not worth it, at least you’ll have the consolation of thoroughness which you wouldn’t get if hurt pride makes you stingy.

5. Leave out of it.

Though your culture might imply that marriage is an easy, obvious, natural virtue it isn’t. These days, it’s an optional preference, a lifestyle choice, not a moral imperative. You don’t have to marry. If you choose that lifestyle you’re under moral obligations within it. But you’re not under obligation to choose the lifestyle.

You are, however, under moral obligation to decide whether you want it. These days, the residues of our culture’s marriage imperative still have people feeling obligated to marry when their hearts aren’t really into it. Don’t be like that. Know your heart as best you can. To go through the motions of wanting to marry because you’re still under the influence yesteryear’s moral mandate is like the closeted gay entering hetero . It’s unkind to the person you’re courting.



Also, in the practice bickering, moral mandates get tossed around. If you’re unwilling to do something for your partner, he or she might imply that you’re ungenerous, selfish or greedy, even narcissistic.

You might be, but courtship is a lousy test for whether you are. You’re testing your willingness to give all to someone forever. If you’re unwilling, it doesn’t prove that you’ve got some fatal character flaw. Despite what you hear from exes, not every person who pulls out of partnership is a narcissist. Deciding you don’t want to give all to someone forever might merely mean that you want to give elsewhere.

6. Rehearse a story that would rationalize each outcome.

As with any big decision, you’re going to feel a lot of tugs. “I can’t choose that. How would I ever justify that decision?” For example, “I can’t pull out of this courtship. It would prove that I’m ungenerous.” Or, “I can’t marry. How would I ever explain dropping my pledge to protect my independence?”

To neutralize those subconscious tugs, treat those questions as real, not rhetorical. For each possible choice, rehearse something you could say to justify it to you, some answer to some friend’s “what happened there?”

It doesn’t have to convince your friend who is likely to support and you whatever you decide, but something that would be convincing enough to you. Armed with an armful of self-justifications, one for each choice you might make, you can make the decision without subconscious tugs biasing your decision.

====== 9 ========

NOVEMBER 17 - 23

November 17 - 23

It's the start of the holiday season, instead of madly consuming, try a little quiet reading with these essays. See what the experts have to say about the mental health of college students, the usefulness of regret, whether "our" universe was made for us, and more.

====== 10 ========

THE COLLEGE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS (UPDATE)

In 2014, I wrote a series on the college student mental health crisis, what may be causing it, and what we might be able to do about it. I receive more inquiries and requests for interviews about this topic than anything else. Because I have explored this issue in more depth, I decided the time was right for an update.

What, exactly, is the “college student mental crisis?” It refers to the fact that (a) significant numbers of college students experience mental health problems (between a quarter and a third at any given time), and (b) over the past 15 to 20 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the demand for mental health services on college campuses.

To give one example of the numbers we are talking about, last month a research report came out that found rates of “past year treatment" had risen from 19% in 2007 to 34% in 2017. In addition, students with lifetime diagnoses increased from 22% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. The trend lines in these categories had been moving up steadily through the 1990s. Here, then, is the nutshell summary of the crisis:

In the 1980s, at any given point, perhaps 1 in 10 college students could be readily characterized as needing/wanting/using some form of mental health treatment. Now that number is 1 in 3, with trend lines rising.

Here is the $64,000 question about these numbers: What is really going on? Are we seeing an “epidemic” of mental illness racing through the country? Or are we seeing a shift in attitudes, definitions, and the expectation of, availability of, and willingness to seek mental health treatment? My opinion is that the primary cause is a change in attitudes and use, with an important secondary cause being an actual increase in emotional fragility and distress (and thus an increase in and depressive conditions).

The first point is certainly true. That is, there have been major changes how people think about mental health and major increases in folks’ willingness to use mental health services. This attitude change is clearly one major reason for the difference. Some scholars argue that attitude change and a willingness to seek treatment is the only reason for the shift. In this interpretation of the crisis, people were suffering with mental illness in the 1980s and '90s at similar rates as they are now, but they were much less likely to talk about their problems openly and much more reluctant to seek treatment (perhaps because of stigma) or had less knowledge or access to do so.

Fellow PT blogger Todd Kashdan, a psychologist for whom I have much respect, recently made this case. He acknowledged that students are in some ways more sensitive and prone to anxiety, but argued against an epidemic of mental illness. He offered data from three sources that suggest that mental health problems have not gotten worse. For example, a major National Co-morbidity Study found that just about 30% of people surveyed between 1990-1992 had a mental health condition and almost the exact same percentage was found in those surveyed between 2000-2002. However, despite similar base rates, the numbers of folks who sought treatment had almost doubled in the same period. Ronald Pies has made a similar argument, namely that what has changed is treatment-seeking behavior, rather than actual levels of mental illness.

Although their arguments are important, the data they report are not the only data on this topic. I see a number of indicators that things have actually gotten worse, especially when we look at this generation and data in the last decade.

Some general population level data do suggest fairly stable trend lines (such as those reports offered by Kashdan and Pies). At the same time, there are some data suggesting general levels of well-being and happiness in the country as a whole are decreasing somewhat. It is clear that we are witnessing disturbing trends in some specific populations in the U.S. For example, we have definitely seen substantial increases in rates of suicide, substance misuse, and depression in certain demographics, such as middle age, lower-class whites.

Trend lines in adolescents and young adults also show evidence of increases in psychopathology. Jean Twenge has been tracking cohort data carefully and has found significant changes in stress, depression and anxiety. The NIMH has found an increase in the frequency of Major Depressive Disorder diagnoses in adolescents. The rate was 7.9% in 2006 and jumped to 12.8% in 2016. That is almost a 50% increase, based on good diagnostic assessments (not service utilization). The suicide rate for adolescents and young adults (per 100,000 people) also has seen a jump. It was 9.9 in 2006 and 13.5 in 2016. Again, about a 50% increase in the past decade. These are substantial changes and are not self-report or treatment-use data.

A similar pattern is found if we compare college student self-report data on feeling distress. The American College Health Association puts out an annual report based on large surveys of college students. I pulled scores from 2008 and compared them to scores in 2017 on feeling overwhelming anxiety, , , and ideation, both in the past two weeks and in the past year.

Source: Gregg Henriques

Source: Gregg Henriques

As depicted in these graphics, we see a substantial increase in rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and some increase in loneliness.

In sum, there are a number of data pointing to actual increases in rates of mental illness/distress. The strongest data point to this being a generational phenomenon with increases in children, adolescents and young adults emerging since the 2000s. I should comment here that this is not something that has to do with college students per se. That is, there is not much reason to suppose that college students would be worse off in terms of mental health than those who don’t go to college.

The take-home message is this: The college student mental health crisis refers to the massive increase in treatment-seeking in college students. Whereas perhaps 10% were self-identified and seeking treatment in the 1980s, now approximately 33% are. This massive rise is likely a function of both more accepting attitudes about reporting distress and seeking and receiving treatment, and actual increases in , anxiety, and depression and other related problems.

There are no signs of this abating. Indeed, when I spoke about the trend with Dr. David Onestak, the Director of the Counseling Center at James Madison University, he made the point that we should no longer call it a "crisis" because it has been going on for more than a decade and does not appear to be slowing down. Rather, this distressing state of affairs seems to be the “new normal.”

My next post will be on why things have changed and will offer some resources for what we should be doing about it.

====== 11 ========

WHAT TO DO WITH FEELINGS OF REGRET

One of the most frequently experienced emotions is regret. Feelings of regret can stem from looking back on past behaviors and decisions and believing that a better outcome may have occurred if a different choice was made. Topics that seem to elicit the most regret are , , romance, , self, and leisure (Newall, Chipperfield, Daniels, Hladkyj, & Perry, 2009; Roese & Summerville, 2005).

When having regret, a person can experience emotional, , and neurophysiological effects. Regret is often accompanied by other negative emotions such as , disappointment, self-blame, and frustration. In addition, people frequently engage in cognitive exercises trying to understand why they made a poor decision or acted as they did, and what other choices they could have made to reap a better outcome. Moreover, regret activates certain areas of the cortex region of the (viz., lateral orbitofrontal, dorsomedial prefrontal).

Researchers differ as to what stimulates regret. Some argue that “opportunity breeds” regret—meaning that regret is strongest under conditions when a “correction” action exists (the “opportunity principle”). For example, many people experience regret over the extent of their education; yet, the opportunity to rectify this “deficit” remains open for most people. It is the availability that spurs regret.

An argument for supporting the “opportunity principle” is that there are few rationalizations that can effectively diminish the “stewing” of regret because actions that can address it are still accessible. Under this theory, feelings of regret will continue until a corrective action is taken (Roese & Summerville, 2005).

Other researchers, however, believe that feelings of regret are more likely to occur and more prominent under situations when there is no opportunity to rectify the decision or action (Beike, Markman, & Karadogan, 2009). That is, the opportunity that existed before and was not taken advantage of is now lost. It can be argued that age is a factor which can affect available opportunities. Theoretically, education can be obtained at any age; however, it is not as easy for older aged individuals. Similarly, finding romance late in life is more difficult than when one is younger, and the field is more open.

Excuses can be of little help in assuaging the pain of regret when little to no opportunity exists to correct the person’s poor decision or behavior (e.g., because of time or scarce resources). People may berate themselves for letting an opportunity pass by that cannot be obtained later.

Regret can be an aversive emotion impacting life-satisfaction. However, if regret is confronted appropriately, it can have a positive effect. Regret can lead to a retrospective analysis that may help people understand the reason why they thought or acted as they did. At that time, there may have been a specific reason. By making sense of their past thoughts or actions, individuals may:

Feel less pain, remorse, and self-condemnation.

Change their thoughts and behavior to that which will now lead to a desired outcome.

Learn from their mistakes and incorporate this into their subsequent decisions and actions.

More specifically, what can people do to accentuate the positive and reduce the negative effects of regret? Newall et al., (2009) and Bjälkebring, Västfjäll, Svenson, & Slovic (2016) offer some of the following suggestions:

Do not let feelings of regret “eat you up" Engage in and do not allow regret to become overwhelming If necessary, suppress the feelings

Do not repeat in your mind “if only” thinking Accept what happened and come to terms with it Accept that there are some instances or events that are out of your control Accept that no life can be lived without regrets

Do not exaggerate personal responsibility and harbor great self-blame

Forecast regret By preparing yourself, it may lessen the surprise and pain

Look for the benefits that derive from regret. How did it encourage you to Better understand yourself Make yourself a better person

Overcome feelings of regret by doing reparative actions Apologize to those you hurt Do not procrastinate in correcting your poor judgment or action Consider opportunities more fully and take advantage of those you might otherwise have let slip by

Instead of focusing on the negative outcomes of regret, be more mindful of how regret has stimulated Learning from experience Growth and positive changes in you



Regret is an emotional mechanism. If one ruminates on lost opportunities, then regret becomes maladaptive and can stymie growth. On the other hand, if regret reminds us that our time is short and that opportunities may be transitory, it helps us strive for a life well-lived.

====== 12 ========

A UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? STATISTICS AND THE MULTIVERSE

In parts one and two of this four-part series, I looked at the vexed question of whether the universe was somehow – and by Someone – fine-tuned for us. There may not be a genuine, no-nonsense, unequivocal answer, but there is much to be learned by merging statistics, logic, and common sense, especially when it comes to the difference between probabilities before and after an event, and much head-scratching occasioned by the multiverse hypothesis.

For example, philosopher Niall Shanks asks us to imagine shuffling a deck of cards and then dealing them out, face down. What is the likelihood that someone could predict the entire sequence, in advance, and without any hanky-panky? The chance of getting the first card correct is 1 in 52. The chance of getting the first two cards correct is 1/52 x 1/51 = 1/2652, and so on, so that the probability of guessing the entire deck in the proper order is 1/52!. (The notation "!” in mathematics is described as “factorial,” with 52! = 52 x 51 x 50 ... x 1.) This is an unimaginably small number, something like one in ten followed by 60 zeros. And yet, it is also true that the chance of the cards having been dealt in the order that actually occurred is 100 percent. They had to come out some way, and among the near-infinite number of possibilities, one in particular actually emerged. Is that astounding? Yes, if you concern yourself with the chance of that precise outcome before it happened. But no, if you look at the post-hoc outcome, knowing that it had to be one way or another.

Alternatively, consider the probabilities before versus after a simple physical event, such as the position of a golf ball before versus after a golfer hits it. It would take a near-miracle to identify, in advance, the precise eventual location of that ball. But the outcome – wherever the ball ends up – isn’t miraculous at all, nor is it evidence of divine intervention or of the golf course having been designed so as to arrange that particular eventual placement of the ball since it had to be somewhere. Even though any one specific location is extraordinarily unlikely, it is even less likely that the ball would have disappeared entirely, or had it landed atop the flat head of a hippo. For us to marvel at the fact of our existing (in a universe that permits that existence) is comparable to a golf ball being astounded at the fact that it ended up someplace.

There are many ways to interpret what might be called the unexpectedness of our existence, none of which necessarily supports the claim that we must attribute that existence to particular pre-planning, by the cosmos and for us. Every person exists because a particular egg (one out of roughly 500 ovulated by his or her mother over the latter's lifetime) encountered a particular sperm (one out of roughly 150 million produced by his or her father in a single ejaculation). Every member of the human population – roughly 7.5 billion – can, therefore, insist that his or her existence was fore-ordained, evidence of a kind of me-thropic principle.

For a more wide-ranging example, the Chicxulub asteroid crashed into what is today Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula 66 million years ago, eventually wiping out the dinosaurs and clearing a path for the rise of mammals and eventually, us. Without that impact and the ecological niches that were opened up by the demise of those previously dominant dinosaurs, it is extremely unlikely that our species would ever have evolved. Had things proceeded differently, the prospect is vanishingly smaller yet that I would be writing this blog, or that you would be reading it.

Should we therefore see the Chicxulub impact as further evidence that our planet was fine-tuned, with my writing and your reading in mind? And that the dinosaurs’ destruction was mere collateral damage en route to the ultimate goal of creating Homo sapiens roughly 65 million years later? If so, then we are responsible for that asteroid and were it not for the universe’s goal of producing us, T. rex and company would still be around. Mazel tov! We really are important!

Physics has additional possible explanations for what masquerades as cosmic fine-tuning. Of these, one of the more intriguing (albeit difficult to grasp) is the possibility of “multiverses,” which revisits the question of probabilities before versus after an event, albeit in somewhat different guise. Here is astrophysicist Martin Rees:

"There may be many “universes” of which ours is just one. In the others, some laws and physical constants would be different. But our universe would not be just a random one. It would belong to an unusual subset that offered a habitat conducive to the emergence of complexity and consciousness. The analogy of the watchmaker would be off the mark. Instead, the cosmos may have something in common with an off-the-rack clothes shop: if the shop has a large stock, we are not surprised to find one suit that fits. Likewise, if our universe is selected from a multiverse, its seemingly designed or fine-tuned features would not be surprising.[i]."

Under the multiverse hypothesis, there is not only a potentially infinite number of universes, but the basic physical laws and constants might well vary across them. It is a radically difficult concept, but perhaps no weirder than basic quantum mechanics, which we now know to be valid. It was recently reported that there are something like two trillion galaxies in the currently known universe, which is about 20 times more than had previously been thought.[ii] Each galaxy consists of millions – in some cases, billions – of stars, many of which have their own planets. And although it appears that the fundamental physical constants hold across the known galaxies, the mere fact that there are so many (the overwhelming majority of which are not in any meaningful sense “known”) opens the possibility that our Earthly experience may be a small subset of the possible – even without introducing the prospect of multiple universes.

Niall Shanks suggests that the multiverse hypothesis “does to the anthropic universe what Copernicus’s heliocentric hypothesis did to the cosmological vision of the Earth as a fixed center of the universe.”[iii] Now, post-Copernicus (and Kepler, Galileo and others), the Earth is known to be just one planet among many, in one galaxy among many. Perhaps we’re just the occupants of one universe among many. Interestingly, even as he demoted the Earth, Copernicus himself placed the Sun in the center of the universe, just as he assumed that planetary orbits were perfect circles, an assumption that was widespread in early astronomy, based on the notion that the “heavenly bodies” are necessarily perfect, just as, in their geometry, circles are perfect. Galileo, too, assumed that planetary orbits were circular; it wasn’t until Kepler – using data from the aforementioned Tycho Brahe - that astronomers recognized they are elliptical. The cosmos, like the human body, is far from perfect. But like the human body and the bodies of all other organisms, it is good enough to have permitted us and them to exist.

In my next and final post on the question of whether the universe is anthropic, we’ll take a look at quantum weirdness, along with other weirdnesses.

David P. Barash is professor of psychology emeritus at the University of Washington. His most recent book relevant to this topic is Through a Glass Brightly: using science to see our species as we really are (2018, Oxford University Press).

[i] Martin Rees. 2001. Our Cosmic Habitat. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[ii] .com/news/universe-has-ten-times-more-galaxies-than-researchers-thought-1.20809

[iii] Niall Shanks. 2004. God, the Devil, and Darwin. New York: Oxford University Press.

====== 13 ========

HOW MANY FACES DO YOU KNOW?

Source: TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock

Throughout our lives, we commit faces to . We can recall classmates from elementary school, neighbors who share our morning commute, and the actors in our favorite television shows. But how many of those faces are stashed in a permanent mental repository?

Researchers at the University of York sought to pin down that number—estimating that people know an average of 5,000 faces. And that figure simply represents the number of faces we might know, not the number we are capable of knowing.

“We may not have an upper limit for face learning,” says Rob Jenkins, the lead author of the study, which was published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The thousands of faces we commit to memory may only be the tip of the iceberg for this mental capacity.

Jenkins and his colleagues asked 25 participants, between 18 and 61 years old, to list people whose faces they would clearly recognize. The researchers helped by providing prompts to consider specific social niches, such as colleagues, of family, and retail staff. Participants also listed every famous figure they would recognize.

Next, the investigators showed participants a slideshow of famous faces and calculated a ratio based on the number of faces they recognized in the lineup and the number of famous faces they had initially said they would recognize. (This was not done with non-famous faces, since it wasn’t feasible to collect photos of them.) Applying that ratio to participants' self-generated lists of both famous and non-famous faces allowed the researchers to arrive at a final estimate.

The concluded that on average, participants’ minds held an inventory of roughly 5,000 faces. The capacity differed greatly between participants, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. That variation may be due in part to the in which someone was raised—a rural or urban area, for example—as well as their level of exposure, Jenkins speculates.

As humans transitioned from living in small, tight-knit communities to a large, interconnected world, the ability for facial learning appears to be up to the task. “It seems that if you’re building equipment that allows you to differentiate between a couple of hundred individuals, in doing that you’re building apparatus that’s also good for several thousand,” Jenkins says. “Maybe you can’t achieve the former aim without incidentally gaining the additional capacity we use now.”

The collection of faces we know is impressive given that learning a new face requires observing and internalizing the same visage with various expressions, at different ages, and in assorted contexts. A face can look different when its owner puts on makeup, gets a haircut, ages five years, or appears in a darkened restaurant rather than a brightly lit room. “The key to learning each face is learning the person’s variability,” Jenkins says. “You have to be exposed to the way the face changes.” (Importantly, people generally tend to be poor at remembering faces they encountered only briefly, he says. That deficit becomes exceedingly important in legal or forensic situations, such as during eyewitness testimony.)

Identifying how many faces people recognize—and how those faces become familiar—is relevant for deficits of face perception, says Wilma Bainbridge, a post-doctoral researcher at the National Institute of Mental who studies the perception and memorability of images. For example, she suggests, face vocabulary could potentially be used as a marker of perceptual decline in the course of Alzheimer’s disease.

The also possesses a strong capacity for object memory, yet evidence suggests that faces require a unique form of processing, Bainbridge says. Humans are drawn to the geometry of faces from an early age: Research demonstrates that infants show a preference for an image of two dots above a third (which more closely mimics a face) compared to two dots below a third. Faces are also visually potent; another study found that photographs with faces were more memorable than those without faces, as measured by a computer game asking participants whether they had seen a given image before.

Evolutionary adaptiveness can help explain humans’ skill for face memory in particular. Faces that embody more emotion or threat are especially enduring, Bainbridge says. “It may be less important to know a familiar or unfamiliar place, because you can take time to explore,” Bainbridge says. “But it could be really important to pick out your friends and your enemies.”

====== 14 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY

How do we make nudges work better, and for longer? By better characterizing the environment in which we want to improve the decisions people make.

====== 15 ========

WHY MANY WOMEN DON’T FEEL THANKFUL ON THANKSGIVING

Behind every beautiful thanksgiving dinner and touching family photograph lies hours and hours of hard labor, which probably was performed by a woman.

Now this is not true for every family. In some families, everyone contributes to planning, cleaning, cooking, and hosting. In other families, one person (often but not always a woman) does the bulk of the work but truly finds it a labor of . If one of those scenarios apply to you, or if you have a different way of celebrating (or not celebrating) the holiday that you enjoy, you might not find this post relevant.

However, if you are one of the many women who are overwhelmed and exhausted, and yet somehow have carved out the time to read this post, this one is for you.

To understand where we are today in terms of and the holidays, it’s helpful to think about the broader context of gender and (paid and unpaid) labor.

The US Department of Labor gathers data on who is working, how many hours, and where. In the 1960s, men and women actually worked about the same number of hours per week. However, men typically worked outside the home, and women typically worked inside the home. Since the 1960s, women have increased the number of hours that they work outside the home, and men have increased the number of hours that they work inside the home. However, the increases have not been at the same rate. The number of hours that women work outside the home has increased more than the number of hours that men work inside the home. This means that women are still doing more housework and childcare than men. This also means that the total number of hours worked per week (hours outside the home + hours inside the home) is greater for women then men. The difference is relatively small; women work about five hours more per week than men. Still, women would probably like those hours back. Across a month, this would add up to 20 hours that they could use however they wanted!

In fact, the data show that men typically devote their five extra hours each week to leisure. Like watching football on TV. Which brings us back to Thanksgiving…

With this in mind, it is not surprising that women do most of the work on Thanksgiving. They typically do most of the work at home, and the “traditional” of Thanksgiving probably exacerbates this. At Thanksgiving, people often want to do things like their did, and their grandparents did, which makes it even more likely that the work required to celebrate the holiday will fall to women.

Moreover, the extra work that women do is not limited to cooking and cleaning. Women also typically manage the social and emotional tone of the day. This is referred to as emotional labor. Sociologist Arlie Hochschlid coined this term in the context of the , but the term applies to the home as well. Examples include (but are not limited to): making sure that conservative Aunt Sally is not seated next to cousin Frank who’s studying at Berkley, getting all of the invitations out within a matter of minutes so that no one feels that they were invited last (and doing so without using social or texting because that would be tacky), and providing children with activities and entertainment that are neither boring nor overstimulating.

Is it really surprising, then, that many women do not feel all that on Thanksgiving? Sure, in the big picture they are thankful for their family and loved ones and the opportunity to be together. However, expecting a person who got up at 4am to stuff a cold turkey to be happy, relaxed, and feeling thankful at 4pm may not be realistic.

With that in mind, here are a few tips for the day.

1. Don’t pressure yourself to feel thankful. It’s ok not to feel all that thankful on Thanksgiving. Maybe you will feel thankful on a different, less hectic day instead. Mixed feelings also are allowed. Whatever you feel is valid and no one can take that away from you.

2. Make minor changes. If you typically do all of the heavy lifting on Thanksgiving, major changes are probably not going to happen in (literally) a day. However, delegate as much as you can, from setting the table to playing with small children so that they are not underfoot. You may think that asking for help with small things won’t make a difference, but it adds up.

3. Lay the groundwork for next year. If you want share responsibility for the holiday more equitably in the future, now is a good time to lay the groundwork. When people ask how you’re doing, it is ok to say that you are a little tired, stressed, etc. and that maybe next year you should not try to do it all yourself. Hopefully, this will plant a seed for change.

4. Plan a time just for you. Mark off at least an hour to do something that you want to after the celebration is over. Sitting down with a cup of tea or a glass of wine to read a book or enjoying a bubble bath are good choices. (Please note that your activity cannot be combined with something that you already planned to do for others, such as going for pedicures with your six nieces who range in age from preschool to high school). When things get hectic or stressful during the holiday, picture that moment when you will sit quietly with a book or slide into your bath.

5. Think about next year. When it is all over, spend some time thinking about what you would like to stay the same for next year and what you would like to change. Then, in the coming months, make time to talk honestly with others about this. Conversations about switching up who does what for the holidays will go more smoothly ahead of time than in the heat of the moment.

Time is getting short, and I should leave you now to bake pies and peel potatoes. To sign off, I will not say “Have a Happy Thanksgiving!!” to those of you feel stressed or overwhelmed. Instead, I will say that I hope that you can find some happy moments during your busy holiday. Good luck, ladies. And Godspeed!

Postscript: This post refers to how men and women spend their time on average, not to every man or woman. If you are a man, and are reading a Psychology Today post about how gender dynamics affect the division of labor on holidays, there is a good chance that you already are the type of guy who is doing his fair share preparing for the day. If that’s the case, make sure to get in on the tea, wine, or bubble bath when the day has come to an end….

====== 16 ========

MAN AND METAPHOR

Source: D. Erdmann & D. Blankenstein, mit freudnlicher Genehmigung

You can’t go home again. —Thomas Wolfe

Yes, you can. —Homer (implied)

The trope of going native is familiar and poorly understood (Krueger, 2017). Some hipsters and other adolescents take a playful transitional approach, experimenting with garb or hairdos before returning to the square & normative. When going native becomes a deeper project, what does it do to a person’s ? How does he [bear with me on the choice of ] see himself and how do others see him? How do these perceptions differ between the members of his original and his adopted group?

Alexander von Humboldt, though “interested in everything” famously resisted going native, while is friend Bonpland, a French botanist, did. Humboldt returned to his ancestral Berlin; Bonpland settled in Argentina, growing crops and fathering children. Humboldt, here above chilling poolside in Mérida, inspired a series of conferences, which explore psychological, sociological, historical, and literary aspects of travel. I signed up to discuss Gonzalo Guerrero.

Source: J. Krueger

In the Yucatán peninsula, Gonzalo Guerrero is the archetype of going native. More myth than man, we can’t be sure that he existed, but this is not essential to this story. We do know that he looms large in the Yucatec imagination. According to the Spanish chroniclers of the late 16th Century, who are less than completely reliable, Gonzalo was cast away on the shore now known as the Mayan Riviera, before rising to prominence among a Mayan group in the Chetumal region. He led them in war against their neighbors and then again against Spanish intruders, and he fathered the first generation of mestizos. For Gonzalo, going native was a survival strategy. The legends that have grown up around him emphasize his martial prowess, and various statues depict him as a warrior. His Spanish family name having been lost, Gonzalo is now remembered as Gonzalo Guerrero, Gonzalo the Warrior. A painting by Fernando Castro Pacheco, displayed in the Palacio del Gobierno in Mérida, highlights a different aspect (see photo to the left). Here, Gonzalo is seen clutching his family and looking vulnerable. The play of light enhances him and his psychological tension. His family remains in the shadows, perhaps to remind us of essential differences. This painting is remarkable in its departure from the Gonzalo’s iconic statuary representation. In stone, Gonzalo presents as strong, defiant, and bearded, but otherwise fully Mayanized. In the painting, we get a glimpse of going-native as a process ridden with conflict.

Oddly, psychological science has little to say about the concept of going native. Where are the theories and empirical studies? Research is squarely focused on issues of immigration, assimilation, dual consciousness, and bi- or multi-culturalism. Important as these issues are, they fail to plumb the experience of those individuals who penetrate an alien culture, thereby risking to be radically transformed. Social psychology, as a , has a tradition of focusing on the experience of disempowered groups. This concern may have created a blind spot for the concept of going native because – hipsters aside – this concept is tied to European expansion, domination, and colonialism. It is here that those who go native swim against a most powerful historical current. The default perception is to see these anadromous adventurers as traitors and savages-by-choice. In the subcontinental Indian context, for example, Kipling warned such types to “never forget that one is a Sahib” (cited in White, 2010).

It may be difficult to think of specific historical examples of individuals gone native, but it seems safe to say that the concept has a foothold in the European imagination; it evokes images and possibilities both alluring and forbidden. With reliable historical data being scarce, a handful of literary treatments drive the dominant narrative. At the extremes, we find characters like the Earl of Greystoke, whose natives are not even human, or the demonic Colonel Walter Kurtz, who loses his mind (“The horror!”). In our time of industrial cultural production, the threat and of going native is occasionally resolved by a hero who becomes a native to save the natives. John Dunbar dances with wolves to save the Lakota, and the disabled anti-hero Jake Sully in James Cameron’s Avatar scores a triumphant victory over white industrial man (Krueger, 2010). He achieves this victory by going native more fully than anyone before. He is embodied as one. Hence the Avatar.

There is an instructive difference here. Dunbar returns to the white man’s world, presumably in yet another attempt to do good for the natives, whereas Sully’s mind is eventually made to reside in the Avatar in permanencia. Dunbar reconnects with ‘home,’ whereas Sully cuts all ties. Sully drinks up the cup of going native. Dunbar, in other words, leans on the mythology of the Odyssey, where the trials and tribulations of life are eventually rewarded with a hero’s return (Humboldt), whereas Sully chooses irrevocable immersion (Bonpland). Gonzalo though, if he existed, was the real Avatar. Flores (2012) notes both visual and psychological similarities. Both the Avatar and Gonzalo fight on the side of and the natives against European expansion and destruction. Gonzalo loses in the short term, but re-emerges as the Urvater (first father) of a new ; the Avatar wins in a Hollywoodian happy ending, which must come as a decisive victory of good over evil.

Across the types of Tarzan, Kurtz, Costner, and the Avatar, we encounter key elements of the European imagination: the fascination with nature, and creatures living in harmony with it. The desire to have what they have, and to take it from them by force. Then, there is the of being overwhelmed by nature and the natives, of not being able to cope with their very different world, and to either die or be swallowed up. This is a form of ego anxiety ( , 1965/1933). The emotional base of European supremacy is ambivalent (Ullrich & Krueger, 2010).

Returning to Gonzalo, we must concede that we know very little about him. One man who became obsessed with Gonzalo is Canadian Professor of English Robert Calder, who after decades of searching for Gonzalo wrote a wonderful book to introduce us to the legend and the few bits of evidence that have been handed down (Calder, 2017; see also Fray Diego de Landa’s, 1566, summary). Gonzalo is not a capitan, he is a marinero. His ship sinks in a storm (Odysseus), and he and some shipmates wash up on the Yucatec shore. The local Maya capture and eat most of them, but they save Gonzalo and a few others to be fattened first and eaten later. Gonzalo and a padre by the name of Jerónimo de Aguilar escape and wind up with a friendlier group of Maya down near Chetumal. They are still slaves, but they manage to build trust and obtain privileges.

The plot thickens when Gonzalo’s and Jerónimo’s strategies diverge. Gonzalo goes native, while Jerónimo holds on to as much of his Spanish identity as he can. To Jerónimo, Catholicism and the Crown remain anchors, while Gonzalo transforms his body with tattoos and piercings. He could shave his beard, but, like another Mexican icon of the blessed imagination – the most interesting man in the world – he chooses not to. To these Maya, Gonzalo’s martial skills make him more valuable alive than dead. Nachán Ka’an, the cacique, uses him against his neighbors and later against the Spanish. Jerónimo has a harder time. He bets on total submission. One of his strategies is to convince his captors that he will not bother their women. They test his will by sending a beautiful girl to tempt him; Jerónimo resists – or so he says. As Gonzalo earns the chief’s trust, he is eventually made a captain (Nakom) to lead warriors, and given the hand of the chief’s daughter, Zazil Há. Gonzalo makes war and . From a sociological standpoint, his assimilation is now complete. He has gone fully native. From a psychological standpoint, certain questions remain. How has his identity, his self-conception changed? Can we even know?

Jerónimo is our only source, and perhaps he made it all up. When Cortés lands in the Yucatán, Jerónimo tells him that there is another Spaniard in the selva. Cortés tells Jerónimo to fetch him, and Jerónimo goes and pleads with Gonzalo to return to the Spanish banner. Gonzalo declines, pointing to his commitments, some of which (e.g., his tattoos, his family) are irreversible. Conceivably, Gonzalo is making a rational decision, judging correctly that he would not be able to function again in the Spanish context. He realizes perhaps that he who has gone native will be viewed with suspicion upon return. Gonzalo cannot go back because his transformed body marks him as a heathen. Indeed, in an attempt to make sense of Gonzalo’s choices, one of the chroniclers, Fernández de Oviedo, speculated Gonzalo was a Muslim, a Jew, or a Converso, but no real Catholic (Calder, 2017). Who else would join the savages?! Clendinnen (cited by Calder, 2017, p. 83) put her finger on the psychological spot when writing that “for one of their own to acquiesce in such filthiness, and to choose it over his own and his own people, was to strike at the heart of their sense of self.” The identity of the native-goer and the identities of the referent groups are interwoven.

I have by necessity emphasized the male and the European perspective. What about the female and Mayan view? Who is Zazil Há, and what is her role in Gonzalo’s transformation? Without her, his fate and story might look rather different. This is a chapter that wants to be written. Meanwhile, we are left to ponder questions of identity that pervade the stories we tell about ourselves (McAdams & McLean, 2013). Extreme cases like Gonzalo are instructive because they highlight conflict and transformation. Such cases are tests of identity. Various parts of the Gonzalo story may resonate with you. Perhaps Gonzalo can encourage us to take another look at where we stand and why. What are the forces that shape us, and how will we respond when a storm throws us up against an unfamiliar shore.

Home to Homer

There is a curious sociological side to the reception of Gonzalo. In the Yucatán, he is widely known and revered. His legend is a rallying point against the official point of view, which still emphasizes the deeds of the conquistadors (in Mérida, these are the Montejos, father and son [el mozo]). The Yucatán is Maya country and far removed from Central Mexico, where the Aztecs provide the indigenous reference point. There, Cortés is credited with creating the race of mestizos with his slave, interpreter, and mistress, La Malinche. Cortés is reviled in the popular imagination there (just look at how Diego Rivera depicted him). Now consider the psychological problem: how can a positive image of an ingroup – here: la raza of mestizos – be constructed on the back of a raptor Urvater? The Yucatecans have solved this problem by embracing Gonzalo. Their ethnic identity is a blend of the Mayan, the mestizo, and the Mexican, and they can trace the mix to someone they can love.

And this is possible, I submit, because Ganzalo took the leap without a safety net. Gonzalo’s journey is not an Odyssey. In the Odyssey, the eventual return home is the engine behind the voyage; in Gonzalo, the hero does not look back to look forward. In conversation in Mérida, colleagues asked me why I did not consider Cabeza de Vaca as an exemplar of going native. Cabeza was shipwrecked in what is now Florida and walked all the way to the city of Mexico, a journey that took him eight years and that gained him repute as a healer and shaman among native populations along the way (Reséndez, 2007). But Cabeza had one goal: to reach home. And he did. He was a modern-day Odysseus. Gonzalo, who took a different path, remains unique and his legend has much to teach us.

Calder, R. (2017). A hero for the Americas: The legend of Gonzalo Guerrero. Regina, Saskatchewan: University of Regina Press.

Flores, L. E. (2012). Avatar o el regreso to Gonzalo Guerrero. La Jornada Semanal, 880. https://www.jornada.com.mx/2012/01/15/sem-luis.html

Freud, S. (1965/1933). New introductory lectures on . ( . James Strachey). Oxford, England: W. W. Norton.

Krueger, J. I. (2010). Back to the story. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/one-among-many/201003/back-the-s...

Krueger, J. I. (2017). Going native. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/one-among-many/201708/going-native

Landa, D. de (1566). Relación de las cosas de Yucatán. 2nd ed. Mérida, Yucatán, September, 2011.

McAdams, D. P., & McLean, K. C. (2013). Narrative Identity. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 22, 233–238.

Reséndez, A. (2007). A journey so strange: The extraordinary tale of a shipwrecked Spaniard who walked across America in the Sixteenth Century. New York: Perseus.

Ullrich, J., & Krueger, J. I. (2010). Interpersonal liking from bivariate attitude similarity. Social Psychology and Science, 1, 214-221.

White, E. R. (2010). In search of identity: Inner diaspora and psychic healing in Rudyard Kipling's Kim and Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children. South Asian Review, 31, 9-26,

====== 17 ========

THANKSGIVING: GRATITUDE OR GRATIFICATION?

Yesterday was the fourth Thursday in November, the day we recognize as Thanksgiving. Like many – though pointedly not all - Americans, the author was fortunate to be in the company of loved ones. As anticipated eagerly, the centerpiece of the event was a carefully prepared, sumptuous dinner. People laughed, teased, and caught each other up with their news. At evening’s end, they sat by a fire telling stories and sharing pictures. Although no one stated this directly, it was clear that everyone felt somehow affirmed and reinvigorated, both for who they have been and for who they will be. Then the visitors got in their cars and went home.

Today is another special day, so-called Black Friday. No has proclaimed this a time of national consolidation; most of us are back at work. But tens of millions are bustling about the stores. Others are on-line. Officially – though unofficially it never ends - the Christmas season is underway. Shoppers dream of special bargains; retailers pray that months of red ink will end. Thank heavens that this year’s date, November 23, is the earliest the event can be.

Such goings-on should make us ponder the character of our country’s celebrations. Who are we as a people? What energizes us? What values do we hold dear?

In any society, public holidays are special moments dedicated to answering the above questions. For the most important of those occasions, workers – at least government workers – have the day off. Schools, post offices, and many other public services are closed. The stock market pauses; banks lock their doors. In the U.S., there are 10 “official” federal holidays:

New Year’s Day (Jan. 1)

Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (3rd Monday in January)

Washington’s Birthday (3rd Monday in February)

Memorial Day (last Monday in May)

Independence Day (July 4)

Labor Day (first Monday in September)

Columbus Day (first Monday in October)

Veterans Day (November 11)

Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November)

Christmas Day (December 25)

As the reader can see, the holidays are of different sorts. Two celebrate the sacrifices of soldiers; one, of working people. There is remembrance of a president, an explorer, and a social reformer. A day of nation founding is marked; so is a key holiday. One holiday (with its preceding night of revelry) is just a calendar beginning. Finally, there is Thanksgiving.

Other publicly celebrated times – such as Valentine’s Day, Saint Patrick’s Day, Easter, and Halloween – are not federally recognized. Nor is that mammoth sporting event, the Super Bowl.

Although U.S. holidays are distinctive in their purposes and origins – and in the political wrangles that led to their enshrinement – those differences tend to be blurred or assimilated by the general culture of the society, and particularly by its commercial culture. Put simply, most are now occasions to shop, travel, and be entertained.

Contrast this with some not so distant centuries in European history, when holidays were indeed holy days. Sometimes they featured parades down thoroughfares, with key social groups claiming their positions in line. Celebrants gathered in common spaces or churchyards. Under religious auspices, people made their own fun, romping together. Different ages, genders, occupations, and social ranks mixed. Childlike behaviors were encouraged; so were minor acts of disrespect and impiety. There were and games; food and drink were abundant. In such ways, local communities proclaimed their identities. In an age of arduous existence, holidays were times to relax and refresh oneself – and to explore alternative value systems that challenged secular hierarchies and their codes of conduct.

Pointedly then, holidays are times to stop and reconsider the character of one’s life, to dabble in unusual behaviors, and to dream of new ways of living. Routines, particularly work routines, should pause. Normally dispersed people should unite. At such moments, the present swings loose from its normal placement in the scheme of things. The past blooms. And the future takes on newly imagined themes.

For such reasons, let people remember fallen heroes, ponder founding principles, and honor the groups that continue to make society vital. It is no shame to mix those solemnities with youthful exuberance.

Our contemporary holidays take on some of these meanings. Most of us are capable, if only for a few moments, of honoring the ancestors who made possible our current patterns of existence. Despite our mythology of being a fiercely individualistic country, we are a social people who love to be in the presence of those we care about. We are pleased to be “off work.” We enjoy eating and drinking.

Thanksgiving is one of the times that shows us at our best. It is also, and not coincidentally, one of the least commercialized of the honored days. To be sure, grocery stores are in overdrive; one can buy decorative items. Still, the event is largely a blip between the much more heavily commercialized times of Halloween and Christmas. To be sure, there are parades, like the famous one sponsored by Macy’s; but these are clearly run-ups to Christmas with Santa’s float at the rear. The same is to be said for televised sports. There is a profusion of these, but they are not the biggest of Big Games, which come later in the year.

Let us acknowledge that public acts of “giving thanks” are important, even profound matters. When food supplies are scarce or problematic, as in many societies historically, the blessings of a good harvest are very real. Thanks are offered, in part to the human workers who produced the bounty but mostly to ’s god or gods, who allowed the community to maintain its precarious existence. In that sense, the 1621 fall feast of the Massachusetts pilgrims was not distinctive – other settling groups had done the same – except for its joining of Native Americans with the scruffy immigrants.

How did Thanksgiving become a national holiday? In an attempt to build nationhood and steel military resolve, the Continental Congress formally encouraged individual colonies to have days of thanksgiving during the Revolutionary War. These events – conceived as “national days of prayer, , and thanksgiving” continued after independence. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first uniformly recognized day (Thursday, November 26) to thank God for the blessings granted the young republic.

Several subsequent Presidents (Jefferson being a conspicuous exception) continued that pattern, although different days and times of year were involved. The practice then became inconsistent, with states taking the lead.

As the nation lurched toward Civil War, Sara Josepha Hale, the editor of the popular magazine Godey’s Lady’s Book –and the author of an 1823 novel that featured a thanksgiving dinner - campaigned for Thanksgiving’s reinstitution as a national holiday. In response, President Lincoln designated Thursday, November 26, 1863, as such a day. Again, the focus was on to God. Pragmatically, it was a claim for national unity during a period of fierce division.

Lincoln’s precedent – effectively, naming the fourth Thursday in November – became the model for present times. Franklin Roosevelt did alter that pattern during the years 1939-1941, primarily to extend the Christmas shopping season. However, there was much opposition to “Franksgiving,” and in late 1941 Roosevelt signed a congressional resolution making the fourth Thursday as the official holiday.

Have the meanings of Thanksgiving shifted through the centuries? The earliest ceremonies focused on gratitude to God. They gathered community members for a feast. They emphasized that a time of great trial had come and gone. The calendar dates of the events were unimportant.

After Lincoln’s initial proclamation (which linked Thanksgiving to the stresses of war), the national custom became date-set and thus disconnected from any specific tests or trials. In the fashion of an officially sanctioned custom, local communities across the country were encouraged to do the event in their own ways. Parades, festivities, and football games were associated with the extended weekend of the holiday. The specifically religious focus of the holiday softened. Moreover, and as Roosevelt’s moving of the date made clear, there was increasing recognition that this was now the start of the Christmas shopping season,

It would perhaps be unrealistic to expect that a commercialized society like ours should not commercialize its holidays. Time off means time to shop. A day at home is an occasion to watch television and visit websites, all framed by commercial messaging. Go a large sporting event – or just watch one on TV – and sense the degree to which our enjoyments are “sponsored.” We find comfort in the companionship of successful products, or brand names. Their sole ambition is to please us; their possession proclaims that we have “made it.”

Again, who can blame us for seeking our pleasure-dose, for aspiring to be gratified? We want to center our thoughts on the wonderful meal before us. We treasure the support of the tablemates who make us feel good about ourselves. We hope that our favorite will be on TV – and that they will win. What feels better than a soothing drink and a warm fire?

Whatever the legitimacy of these satisfactions – and who can deny them? – we should remember that Thanksgiving is intended to turn our thoughts in the opposite direction. It is an occasion to thank those who make our lives – at all their moments - possible. Some of that thanks goes rightly to our families, however checkered our with them may be. Remember our good , the ones who stand by us in all circumstances. But beyond those carefully maintained circles others should be noted. Community members, once such an important part of people’s existence, continue to shape the local worlds in which we operate. Co-workers; church, team, and club members; fellow enthusiasts of our hobbies and causes all contribute to our sense of stability and purpose. Be clear that we also find support from people we do not know well – who build, repair, and otherwise service our existence. There are the unseen and unappreciated millions who contribute to our country and ensure its continuity. Beyond that, let those who have some awareness of the sacred foundations of our modest lives express that gratitude as well.

In short, the purpose of holidays (and Thanksgiving is just one of these) is to acknowledge indebtedness to others. Do not confuse gratification — the feeling of the full belly, warm fire, or comforting pat on the back – with that sense of willing obligation. We live as we do because others have made that existence possible. Let other times be devoted to self-encouragement, even self-love. At holidays, we thank those who have widened our realms of possibility.

====== 18 ========

HOW TO STOP FIGHTING WITH YOUR SPOUSE

Years back I saw a high powered, professional couple in San Francisco who went at each other’s throats, verbally speaking, twenty-four seven. Everything turned into an epic battle—whether the issue was eating meals, having , planning vacations, spending and saving money, decorating the house, rearing kids, or dealing with in-laws and ex-spouses. When they fought, they would revisiting one old hurt after another, and never resolving anything.

Both claimed they were powerless to control their tempers. Then, a distinguished British professor came to stay with them as their houseguest for several months, living in a guest room adjacent to their bedroom. “During that time, we never raised our voices,” the wife told me. “We were pretty courteous with each other. Pride, I guess.” They both agreed it was the best several months of their .

I wish I had a distinguished British houseguest to loan out to all my readers and clients. But I don’t. You'll just have to believe me when I tell you that you are capable of adjusting your behavior. It’s all about and following a couple of rules.

Where to start? The first rule is to make rules for how you as a couple will treat each other—rules you are responsible for following even in the heat of the moment. Like the couple I just described we often act as if the intensity of our gives us license to say or do anything, because, after all, we’re way to furious to be able to stop what’s coming out of our mouth! .

Of course we can stop ourselves and behave better--that is if we have a genuine intention to have a better marriage. If you or your partner can’t keep your anger from getting out of control, it’s important to get professional help.

Begin by sitting down with your partner and coming up with a few rules of your own. These might be, for example, “No yelling or name calling,“ “No bringing up past grievances during a fight” and “No bringing up problems at bedtime.” Many couples find it helpful to keep a written copy of the rules in a place where both will see it daily.

The second rule is to take the responsibility to change first, and make a sincere effort to keep fighting and negativity from escalating. Instead of waiting for your partner to do the right thing, take the initiative to add a note of or calm into a downward-spiraling conflict, or to postpone the exchange to a future time.

It doesn’t matter whether you use humor, or touch, or a simple refusal to participate in a non-productive exchange by saying something like, “If you want me to listen, get out of your debate posture!” The efforts you make to change the tone (or volume) of an increasingly nasty exchange can, over time, save and strengthen your marriage.

Of course, we want our partner to be the one to de-escalate and apologize first, especially if we’re convinced that he “started it” and is the one to blame. We lose sight of the fact that true victory lies in stopping the fight, and then making your point at a calmer time.

Don’t continue to participate in downward spiraling fights that go nowhere and threaten the foundation of and respect on which a good marriage is based. Happy couples are not couples that don’t fight. Rather they’re couples that fight fair, and take responsibility for their own words and actions, no matter how furious they may feel inside. If your motor is running for change, heres a book to help you to use your anger wisely and well.

====== 19 ========

DONALD TRUMP, NOT MELANIA, IS THE MOST BULLIED PERSON

Source: TMZ/Tyler Shields/Fair Use

Melania has failed to earn the 's sympathy for her recent declaration that she is the world’s most bullied person. And rightfully so. She is definitely not the most bullied person. That dubious distinction goes to her husband.

Melania may have been correct, though, had she complained of being the most bullied woman.

How do we determine who is the most bullied person? One way is by examining how much they are insulted, ridiculed and attacked in the news and entertainment media. There’s no contest. President Trump holds the number one place hands down.

Why our President is the most bullied person

There is a simple reason President Trump is the most bullied person in the world: the more powerful and famous you are, the more people are going to want to criticize, ridicule, attack, hate, and even destroy you.

The media and the general public don’t care about the flaws of the average John or Jane Doe. It is the rich, famous and powerful who are on the radar of the media, constantly on the lookout for the titillating information we crave to spice up our mundane, dreary existence.

With the possible exception of despotic dictatorships, the most bullied person in any country is its . In the US, it’s always been our President, even the most popular of them. And since the US is still considered the world’s leading power, the US President is the most bullied individual on the planet.

This is not to say that the President is only a target of . The President is also the nation’s most respected and supported person. But that does not negate the fact that he/she is the most bullied. There may be other famous people who temporarily move into the Number One position when they become the focus of worldwide negative media (think Harvey Weinstein). But as soon as the novelty wears away, the President reclaims the lead.

And if the President is a married man, the most bullied woman is likely to be his wife, the First Lady, especially if she assumes a public role, as many have done, including Melania. The media will examine her through a microscopic lens, searching for any imperfection or blunder to publicize in order to enhance their own ratings.

There are exceptions to the First Lady being the most bullied woman. Other women who hold top positions of power may be contenders, such as Hillary Clinton, especially during election season. But generally it is the First Lady that holds the position of the most bullied woman during the years of her reign. And this is especially true for Melania because of her association with Donald, commonly referred to as our Bully-in-Chief.

The Obamas were also the most-bullied

The Obamas were also the most bullied people when they occupied the White House. Barack was a recipient not only of praise; he was constantly despised and attacked by a sizable portion of Americans. And so was Barack’s wife. As reported in the New York Daily News:

During her eight years as First Lady, Michelle Obama withstood an onslaught of personal attacks and racist insults, with her critics seizing on her skin color and physical features – and repeatedly comparing her to a monkey in a bid to diminish her and tear her down.

The bullying of Melania

We feel sorry for children whose clothing is made fun of in school. Well, how about Melania Trump, whose wardrobe is a regular target of media ridicule. Her clothing was ridiculed only a few days ago: “Twitter goes after Melania Trump's unusual ensemble at the 2018 White House turkey pardoning.”

You may recall the worldwide attacks she suffered because of a coat she wore bearing the imprint, “I don’t really care, do you?”

But perhaps the most scathing attack on her wardrobe – or lack of one – was perpetrated a week ago by Bette Middler (I happened to find it funny, though Middler got mostly flack for her joke), who referred to FLOTUS (First Lady Of The US) as FLOTITS in a Tweet, The dry cleaning bill for the upholstery on Air Force One must be insane.#FLOTITS

Imagine – you have achieved the coveted status of First Lady of the United States, a position that should make you the object of veneration. Then someone posts an almost-nude picture of you from your previous as a model, accompanied by a vulgar caption, and it goes viral. This has produced an unprecedented situation: it is the first time in history that we can all see what our First Lady looks (looked?) like naked.

But the most serious barrage of bullying Melania has been subjected to is over the mission she has taken upon herself as First Lady: to combat bullying among children. She calls her campaign, Be Best, urging children to treat each other well. The media has had a field day with this, lampooning her as a hypocrite because she’s married to our Bully-In-Chief. How ironic to be bullied for taking up the anti-bully cause!

President Trump may be rightfully attacked for his public bullying behavior, unbecoming of a person in his exalted position. He has even been accused of causing an escalation of bullying among children: Donald Trump Has Unleashed a New Wave of Bullying in Schools. A highly publicized recent scientific study supports this contention.

Yes, indeed, our President fits the image of a classic bully. So it can certainly seem preposterously hypocritical for his wife to be taking up the anti-bully cause.

Our own hypocrisy

But there is something we tend to forget when we ridicule the Trumps. Bullying did not start with Donald and it won’t end with him. The bullies are not “them.” They are “us.”

Bullying is in our . As much as we attack the President for engaging in bullying, we enjoy being perpetrators and spectators of bullying as well, and we don’t want to stop. We enjoy it too much. The Trump presidency has been the best thing ever to happen to Saturday Night Live. Comedians’ careers have had new life breathed into them thanks to Trump. Trump has provided reporters, bloggers, and even psychologists with a steady stream of material, and the rest of us eagerly partake of their offerings. They give us something exciting to talk about at the water cooler, in the bar, on social media, and at our dinner tables.

No, the Trump presidency is not a cause of our bullying but a mirror of it. We are highly attuned when he bullies others but conveniently oblivious when we do it to him. And we do it to him much more than he does it to us. Jesus popularized the idea that we are adept at "seeing the speck in others’ eyes while failing to see the plank in our own." Does anything Donald has said about anyone rival the malevolence of Kathy Griffin’s appearance with a bloody replica of Trump’s severed head?

In fact, are not the things we routinely say about Trump far worse than what he says about us? Sure they are. It’s because we live in a democracy, and Trump knows that if he offends us too much we will vote him out of office. However, thanks to Freedom of Speech we can insult him all we want and, unless we work for him, there’s little he can do about it. While Kathy Griffin would have literally lost her head had she pulled such a stunt in a dictatorship, she is now enjoying renewed success as a result of Trump's attempt to ruin her career.

We may justify bullying the rich, powerful and famous by rationalizing that they deserve it, or that it is the price one pays for celebrity status. But it is easy to forget that celebrities are also human beings with feelings, just like the rest of us. While on the line at the grocery store, our gaze may be drawn to the humiliating stories and photos of celebrities that grace the covers of magazines. But do the celebrities enjoy the way they are depicted? Do they deserve to be publicly disgraced? Do we compassionately share their pain, or do we revel in the pleasure of schadenfraude?

If we are to learn anything about bullying from the Trump Presidency, it’s that the bullies are not “them.” They are “us.” As long as we enjoy the bullying of Donald, Melania, and others in positions of power, we cannot expect Trump to stop engaging in bullying, either. We may protest that he started, but doing it back makes us no better.

====== 20 ========

11 WAYS TO COPE WITH ANXIETY WHEN YOU’RE BUSY

Source: rawpixel for Unsplash

Finding ways to cope with is as much a matter of perspective as strategy. Anxiety in and of itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, and in fact can be a help, especially when we are busy. A powerful source of information and energy, anxiety can walk a fine line between motivating and overwhelming depending on how we choose to view it.

For those who live with anxiety on a more-than-occasional basis, choices tend to vacillate between giving into it or learning to live with it. “Perspective” can seem like a leisure activity in our fast-paced, information-packed world, rather than a line-item on a competent person’s calendar.

And yet, without perspective, there really is no competence. Information overload and the constant state of alert cause anxiety to fall off the fence and into the proverbial briar patch of overwhelm.

Learning ways to cope with anxiety when its optimization is still possible is far different than operating a rescue mission after it has all but crippled you. And when you’re busy (And who doesn’t feel “too busy”?), it is especially important to have some practiced methods of anxiety on-hand.

can be a tricky player. Sometimes it shows up as a factor beyond your control, forcing the hand of change and adaptation. Without it, there would be no growth, no strengthening, no evolution. And that is as true for the planet and its species as it is for the individual.

At the other end of the spectrum, stress can be a reflection of your mental and emotional responses to stimuli. Cognitively you may suspect or even know that the events triggering your anxiety in a given situation are actually “neutral,” and it is only your responses to them that are not. Frustrating as those times are (and we all have them), those are actually the “stressful moments” most imbued with opportunity.

Regardless of the origin of your anxiety, a stress response with a permanent green light isn't helpful. Chronic non-stop stress can overwhelm the nervous system and take its toll, both physically and emotionally.

You can, however, make choices and take actions to mitigate that stress response. There are ways to cope with anxiety so that you come out on the winning end and reap the benefits of anxiety as a resource.

Here are 11 strategies to try, especially when you’re busy:

1. Relaxation techniques for creeping-past-moderate anxiety.



By knowing how you instinctively respond to stress, you can best choose a course of action that either utilizes the stress or helps to quiet it. Do you get worked up? Retreat? Feel energized? Paralyzed? By knowing your unique tendencies, you can be in charge of your anxiety, not the other way around.



Moderate anxiety is where optimization lies. It’s where you will experience the “nudge” to get things done, push a little harder, risk going outside your comfort zone. It’s the “chatter” range of anxiety that keeps you accountable to the things that are important to you.



When anxiety starts “yelling” at you, however, the internal experience is literally like being yelled at. Your mind goes into overwhelm, or even shuts down as a defense mechanism.



Think of the difference between a that hits your system as “full dose” vs. “extended release.” Keeping anxiety at a “chatter” level will keep you comfortably on your toes and in sync with the it fuels.



On those occasions when the volume of your anxiety starts ramping up, it helps to have some techniques to bring your body and mind back into equilibrium. You may just need to dial back on the volume, or you may need to “reset” and start fresh after a break. The key is to recognize when your anxiety is starting to take control of you, and intervene with a relaxation technique that works for you.



Examples of relaxation techniques include:

• deep breathing

•

• body-scan meditation

•

• yoga and Tai Chi



2. Uni-task vs. multi-task.



We are all conditioned to believe that we must consistently do a gazillion things at once in order to keep up with the Joneses, let alone to succeed. But constant multitasking actually causes the to work less efficiently.



Learning to “uni-task” is at the heart of mindfulness meditation and is a powerful tool in helping to establish priorities while letting non-essentials fall away. Put down your phone and be with your child. Get out of the office and have a “walking meeting” with your co-worker. Get comfortable giving your to one thing at a time.



3. Spread the .



Direct your anxiety into helping someone else. It’s amazing how the proclivity for worrying dissipates when you are selflessly serving someone else’s needs. And it’s no secret that you will benefit, as well.



4. Exercise.



Even gentle exercise like walking or yoga can have a profound effect. The endorphins released with gentle exercise will keep you energized and focused without the uncomfortable anxiety effects.



5. Talk it out.



Having someone to talk with when anxiety starts to get ahead of you can help slow its progress and steer you back toward its productive benefits. A friend, counselor, or support group can help you keep perspective. And infusing a little into the conversation is great medicine.



6. Turn off to tune out.



Turn off the TV and say “night-night” to your phone at least an hour before bedtime. The last thing an anxious mind needs when trying to wind down is a barrage of hostile headlines and social notifications.



The -assaulting effects of your screen’s blue light frequency can also wreak havoc with your ability to drift off. Because it mimics the blue light of dawn, it can sabotage your sleep ritual by “waking you up.”



There are plenty of low-tech ways to relax before bed. Try a book with actual pages and/or a diffuser with calming essential oils. Or download a filter to your computer to change the light frequency.



7. Eat well.



How you eat affects how you feel, both physically and emotionally.



The common-sense guidelines for keeping your body healthy also pertain to keeping your brain healthy. Watch the caffeine, avoid fried and high-sugar foods, and eat oil-rich fish and plenty of vegetables. Keeping your blood-sugar levels on an even keel is one of the simplest ways to cope with anxiety while fostering a healthy all-around life.



8. Take action in spite of .



Instead of allowing yourself time to brood over all the possible outcomes of your choices, take action. Get into the game. Take baby steps if that is all you can do. But stand up to the fear and make adjustments once you are in motion. You’ll find that most of that catastrophizing was for naught.

9. Tell yourself you can handle this, because you are handling it.



When doubt creeps in, pull out a mantra that works for you -- something like, “I can handle this, and everything is going to be OK.”



While the anxietythat you are feeling is likely a signal for needed growth, there is no 911 for you to accomplish it all right now. You are handling the demands of this moment, and you willhandle the demands that come after. One breath, one moment, one task at a time.



By recognizing that you are managing -- even if not so gracefully -- you can also shed a common secondary anxiety that comes along with stress: “I can’t handle this.” You may not wantto handle it, but you can.



10. Be strategic in placing your expectations.



In the spirit of making stress as low as possible, strive to limit high expectations. Taking a moment to ask yourself, “Do I have control over this? And if so, how much?” can do wonders to position you advantageously and prevent the deflation that comes from having high hopes dashed.



Your hopes and are precious commodities. Be protective of them, and careful not to put them at unnecessary risk. Look to focus on realistic , informed by what is actually happening. Notice where you feel traction, and look to build expectations from there.



However, even when you’re keeping your expectations in check, disappointments will still happen. And, no matter how small they are, they can still hurt – because you care.



Your caring is a vital part of you. It’s OK to be sad for a short while when you feel disappointed before moving forward again. The important thing is that you are willing to keep moving so that you don’t get stuck in any feelings of disappointment along the way to pursuing your hopes and dreams.



11. Identify how you are overextending and pull back.



When stress rears its head, most of us stretch to meet its demands. This is how we grow and get stronger. But when we stretch too much and avoid setting limits, especially at work, we risk a diminishing return on investment. Perfectionism can lure us out of balance, as well.



For many of us, saying “no” can be tough. How can you limit someof your overextending? Where can you claim more time, more space for you? How, and to whom, can you say “no” or “not now” with consequences you can live with?



It is too tempting to say “no” and “not now” to our own needs in order to cope; but in the long run, this is a recipe for . While flexibility might be admirable, it can be an impediment to holding onto balance. Flexibility still needs to suit your own needs to be sustainable.

Anxiety has the ability to increase energy, streamline mental focus and boost productivity. Optimizing it relies on you being able to recognize its symptoms and keep a positive perspective, then using those symptoms to your advantage as much as possible. By having reliable ways to cope with anxiety, you can embrace it as a colleague that is accompanying you on your journey for your highest good.

====== 21 ========

EVIDENCE THAT DREAMS HELP US LEARN

One of the most interesting lines of research in dream psychology these days are the so-called “dream incorporation” studies. Incorporation of novel learned material into dream content significantly predicts success at permanent retention or learning that novel content (Fiss et al., 1977; De Konnick et al., 1990; Stickgold et al., 2000; Fosse, Fosse, Hobson, & Stickgold, 2003; Wamsley, Perry, et al., 2010; Wamsley, Tucker, et al., 2010; Wamsley et al., 2012; Schoch et al., 2018; Wamsley and Stickgold, 2018). If you dream about something you studied that day you are more likely to retain that information the next day. Improved performance on learning novel materials is significantly associated with the extent of dream incorporation—the greater the number of elements of the learned materials incorporated into , the stronger the acquisition of those novel materials in subsequent daytime performance tests. For example, De Koninck et al., 1990 found that second language acquisition scores were predicted by a higher frequency of dreams that incorporated elements (words, phrases etc) of the second language into dream content. Wamsley et al. (2012) demonstrated that learning to master a virtual maze navigation task was significantly associated with dream incorporation of elements of the maze. Greater incorporation predicted greater mastery. Learning-related dream incorporation into REM dreams is strongest on the night after and from 5–7 nights after learning, reflecting “day residue” and “dream-lag” effects, respectively (Nielsen et al., 2004; van Rijn et al., 2015).

The neurobiologic basis of these dream incorporation effects likely involves sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation processes. A large number of studies have now demonstrated differential performance improvements (e.g., from training to retest) on a large variety of tasks over an intervening period of sleep vs control periods of wakefulness. Human neuroimaging studies incorporating sleep dependent memory paradigms suggest that after new learning, there is physiological reactivation of brain areas recruited during learning (Peigneux et al., 2003, 2006; Oudiette and Paller, 2013; Oudiette et al., 2013; Fogel et al., 2017). Single cell recordings in animal studies have shown that during sleep there is a physiological replaying of the representation formed during waking learning (e.g. exploration of a maze). There is some evidence that this replay of neural representations of learned materials occurs in humans as well and is reflected in the content of our dreams (Stickgold et al., 2000; Wamsley et al., 2010; Kusse et al., 2012; Wamsley, 2014; 2018). “Targeted memory reactivation” refers to the use of cueing techniques to facilitate reactivation and replay of neural representations or during sleep to promote later waking recall of those memories (e.g., Cellini and Capuozzon, 2018, for review). For example, playing selected words or sounds during sleep that were previously paired with to-be-learned words during a learning phase before sleep results in better recall of the word-pairs post-sleep. Presentation of cues during sleep that had been previously associated with a stimulus during wake results in better recall of that stimulus during subsequent waking recall tests. These techniques have been used to improve memory performance in healthy people and in patient populations. By re-exposing subjects to odors, words, or tones (i.e., cues) associated with newly learnt neutral or emotional memories, emotional memories were reactivated and more readily recalled later. It should be possible to use targeted reactivation techniques to reinforce dream images of previously studied material. Then we would be harnessing the power of dreams in a whole new way.

====== 22 ========

WAS THE UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? LAST OF 4 PARTS

I've been exploring the so-called anthropic principle, the notion that perhaps the universe was somehow made with us in mind (suggested, according to its supporters, by the claim that if any of a large number of physical constants were just a smidgeon different, we wouldn't exist). If you'd like to catch up on this scientific-philosophical-theological and altogether skeptical journey, you can find versions one, two and three, in chronological order.

It seems likely that life exists elsewhere in the universe, if only because it has become clear that there is a huge number of potentially life-friendly planets along with other potential happy havens out there. And of course, if there is - and if the universe really was, somehow and by Someone, "made" - it's always possible that it was made for them: three-headed slimy slobbus beasts, or perhaps hardened chunks of metabolizing meteorite masses ... or whatever.

For extraterrestrial life to exist, it nonetheless seems likely (although by no means certain) that it would have to reside on one or more exoplanets, asteroids or perhaps a comet, rather than within a star or free-floating in open space. Moreover, such exoplanets would have to be associated with stars that, for example, don’t emit massive amounts of X-rays or other forms of radiation. But of course, this presumes that “life” would be consistent with “life as we know it.” Maybe there are critters out there who cheerfully bathe in hefty levels of what to terrestrial biologists are lethal amounts of energy, or get by and even thrive on not enough energy to sustain a perseverating entity that would qualify – to us - as “alive.” Most likely, I suspect, there aren’t.

Just a bit closer to established reality, quantum mechanics offers another potential solution to the anthropic conundrum, one that seems if anything weirder than the multiverse hypothesis. According to theory - the same theory that gives rise to, among other things, the very real computer on which this book has been written - matter at its most fundamental level is made up of probabilistic wave functions, which only transition to “reality” when a conscious observer intervenes to measure or perceive them. In the famous “double slit experiment,” light is revealed to be either a particle or a wave only after it is measured as one or the other. Prior to this, photons do not, in a sense, exist as clear-cut entities; afterward, they do.

Based on these and other findings, physicist John Wheeler, one of the towering pioneers of quantum mechanics, who coined the term “black hole,” (and who numbered Nobel laureate Richard Feynman among his students) suggested a “participatory anthropic principle,” whereby – believe it or not – the universe had to include conscious beings in order for it to exist. Personally, I don’t believe it.

I do, however, believe in evolution, which leads – by a stretch no more bizarre than Wheeler’s – to the suggestion that maybe it shouldn’t be surprising that we live in a universe suitable for life, something that has happened not because the universe has been fine-tuned for us or has somehow been “made real” by us, but because we are fine-attuned to it because of natural selection. Just as the physical qualities of air have selected for the structure of bird wings, and the anatomy of fish speaks eloquently about the of water, maybe the nature of the physical universe has in the most general sense, selected for life, and thus, for us.

There is also another, more peculiar way of incorporating natural selection into the anthropic quest. What if natural selection occurs at the level of galaxies, or even universes, such that those offering the potential for life are more likely to replicate themselves? If so, then compared to life-denying galaxies, life-friendly ones might conceivably have produced more copies of themselves, providing greater opportunities for life forms such as ourselves. Aside from the rampant unlikelihood of this “explanation,” it remains unclear how or why such pro-life galaxies would be favored over their more barren alternatives.

Nonetheless, physicist Lee Smolin has pursued the notion of “cosmological natural selection,” whereby perhaps not just galaxies but entire universes replicate themselves, courtesy of black holes.[i] If so, then what sort of universes would be favored – “selected for,” as biologists would put it? Easy: those that employ physical laws and constants that are “more fit,” i.e., that lend themselves to being reproduced. This conveniently explains (if explanation is the correct word) why our universe contains black holes (it’s how they replicate). It also leads to the supposition that perhaps intelligent beings can contribute to the selective advantage of their particular universe, via the production of black holes, and who-knows-what-else.

Another possibility, no less weird, was broached by Carl Sagan in his 1985 novel, Contact. In it, the heroine is advised by an extraterrestrial to study transcendental numbers - numbers that are not algebraic – of which the best known example is pi. She computes one such number out to 1020 places, at which point she detects a message embedded in this number.

Since such numerology is fundamental to mathematics itself and is thus, in a sense, a property of the basic fabric of the universe, the implication is that the cosmos itself is somehow a product of intelligence, since the message is clearly an artificial one and not the result of random noise. Or maybe the universe itself is “alive,” and the various physical and mathematical constants are part of its metabolism. Such speculation is great fun, but please bear in mind that it is science fiction, not science!

It should be clear at this point that the anthropic argument readily devolves into speculative and even theology. Indeed, it is reminiscent of the “god of the gaps” perspective, in which god is posited whenever science hasn’t (yet) provided an answer. Calling upon god specifically when there is a gap in our scientific may be tempting, but it is not even popular among theologians, because as science grows, the gaps – and thus, god – shrinks. It remains to be seen whether the anthropic principle, in whatever form, succeeds in expanding our sense of ourselves beyond that illuminated by science. I wouldn’t bet on it.

And yet, despite what we has been called Copernican Mediocrity – to which I would add Darwinian Mediocrity - just because the universe is unlikely to be what it is simply for our benefit, this need not, and should not, give rise to an alternative, “misanthropic principle.” Regardless of how special we are, or aren’t, wouldn’t we be well-advised to treat everyone (including the other life forms with which we share this planet), as the precious beings we like to imagine us all to be?

[i] L. Smolin. 1999. The Life of the Cosmos. New York: Oxford University Press

====== 23 ========

MANAGING THE EXPERIENCE OF SETBACKS AT WORK

Work deadlines are a fact of life for many individuals, and failure to meet deadlines can result in serious consequences. Unfortunately, set-backs are also common at work. Specifically, sometimes the progress workers are able to make toward their goals is inhibited by factors outside their control. For instance, a computer crash has the potential to undo a day’s worth of work. When deadlines must be met, such set-backs can be quite upsetting, and potentially demotivating.

However, to date relatively little research has considered the effects of set-backs on worker emotions and . More so, virtually no efforts have been made to differentiate types of set-backs. To this end, my co-authors Abigail Scholer, Jeffrey Hughes, and I designed two experiments to address this issue. Specifically, we identified two types of set-backs:

Distance Set-backs are characterized by a loss of progress. As an example, consider an employee working on a report due at the end of the day. A computer crash that causes some or all of the report to be deleted is a distance set-back.

Velocity Set-backs are characterized by a decrease in the rate of progress that can be made in the future. No progress is lost, yet all future progress is made more slowly compared to before the set-back occurred. For instance, a virus that causes a computer to slow down (thereby slowing future progress) is a velocity set-back.

We predicted that both types of set-backs would cause individuals to feel increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm while performing work tasks. However, we also predicted that whereas the effects of a distance set-back would eventually fade over time, the effects of a velocity set-back would persist.

Participants were randomly assigned to experience either a distance set-back or a velocity set-back while they completed a simulated work task. Halfway through the experiment participants were told their was a “computer glitch.” Participants in the distance condition were told this glitch caused some of the work they had already completed to be lost, and thus, this work would need to be redone. Conversely, participants in the velocity condition were told the glitch caused delays in the computer program, resulting in slower progress from that point onward. Importantly, the distance and velocity set-backs were designed to be functionally equivalent in terms of the likelihood of ultimately completing the task within the deadline. In other words, all participants had an equal chance to meet the deadline, regardless of condition. Participants who completed the task within the deadline were given a small cash reward.

As expected, participants had relatively negative initial reactions to both types of set-backs. Specifically, participants in both conditions reported increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm. Yet these reactions were relatively short-lived for participants who experienced a distance set-back; frustration and enthusiasm returned to baseline levels by the end of the experiment. On the other had, the increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm persisted over time among participants who experienced the velocity set-back. Although the set-backs were equivalent in terms of their effect on ultimately completing the task within the deadline, negative reactions to velocity set-backs were far more persistent compared to the reactions to the distance set-back. Downstream, frustration and enthusiasm predicted important motivational outcomes, including goal commitment, effort, and task performance.

These results highlight the importance of the effects that set-back can have on worker emotions and motivation. Managers should be cognizant of the fact that workers are likely to be upset following set-backs, and this may detract from motivation and performance moving forward. This may be particularly true following velocity set-backs. However, managers may be able to ameliorate the these deleterious effects by helping employees update their expectations regarding a reasonable rate of progress. In other words, following a velocity set-back managers may be to communicate to their subordinates that they understand the source of the slowed progress. Doing so may help employees reappraise the situation, form new internal guidelines for reasonable rates of progress, and remain committed to completing the task on time.

The full manuscript can be downloaded here.

====== 24 ========

BETWEEN HERE AND MY LAST STOP: MEMOIRS AND ASSISTED MAGIC

Source: Wikimedia

It was a fall about the time of the Women’s March 2016 that sidelined me and my pink pussy hat. I knew then that I had just participated in my last protest demonstration. Although a one-time believer is the "stay-at-home" movement -- research on , , and highlights from the Gerontological Society of America meetings, which I have been following for some years now, compelled me to reconsider. The 18th Annual Meeting was held in Boston this month. With research from diverse areas, they report on new scientific research and ways to promote healthy aging. Gerontological Society of America.

It came at a time, when I was feeling challenged and welcomed their ideas and energy. Despite my calling "aging in place the fountain of youth" in an earlier article, after my pussy hat fall my choices were limited: Moving in with children or into assisted living — for which I considered myself to be too young. Nonetheless, after reading once again Being Mortal by Atul Gawande, M.D., I began counting my blessings, and made a choice.

Gawande, a New Yorker staff writer, and long-time physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, points out that we can enjoy creative moments filled with meaning and vitality even in our later years.

As many reviewers have pointed out, Gawande's mission appears to be allowing people to live a meaningful life and shape the story of their own lives. While assisted living is sometimes considered a home, indeed, for people in their 60s, 70s, and older, it can be a place to begin a new adventure. If psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung born in 1875, folded up into full retirement, he may not have written one of his classic works, , , Reflections in 1962.

A book may not be in our future, but assisted living can become a starting point for a new life experience. Former colleagues almost jealously compare my living choice to The MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire. There writers and artists are nurtured while oftentimes completing a work in progress.

A Family Memoir

Falling as I did sidelined me, but also set in motion a plan to collect all published columns about my grandparents and put them into a book for my grandchildren. And indeed, with a black paper photo scrapbook, made by one of my sisters, and time to write uninterrupted, Italian Kisses: My Grandmother's , is now with Bordighera Press in New York City.

For people interested in memoirs, there is new and interesting research from the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf. As reported in Behaviour Research and and and Behavioral Practice, even unhappy memories can be transformed by editing and rescripting them: How to Treasure Happy Memories and Edit the Sad Ones (with references.)

An Assignment

Before our last stop, many of us have a myriad of , wishes and dreams, or a bucket list. Most people do not like to think about the last stop. However, a graduate school assignment helped us to come face-to-face with our mortality. We were tasked with writing our own obituary. It was a way to look at our goals and determine how we wished to be remembered. Write one today and then ask yourself: "Is this what I'd like my life story to say?" And if it is not, then ask, "What is missing? What did I hope to accomplish?"

One graduate school colleague said she wanted to be a physician. Someone chided her saying, "You'll be 50 by the time you become a resident." She thought for a minute and answered, "I'll be 50 anyway." And she enrolled in medical school.

Copyright 2018 Rita Watson

====== 25 ========

THE PROFOUND PLEASURE OF PUTTERING

Source: Pippalou/Morguefile

After an exceedingly long, exceedingly busy couple of years—during which any time I wasn’t actively doing something, I was worrying about things I should be doing—I woke up one morning with all the important tasks behind me and nothing pressing ahead of me. Nothing to do, nowhere to go, and no reason to worry about it.

My god, what a glorious feeling.

I got out of bed, put on comfortable clothes, may or may not have brushed my hair, and threw myself body and soul into puttering.

I wonder: Do know the deep, joyous satisfaction of puttering around the house? Or is a day without other people, for them, a day wasted?

Puttering around the house entails wandering from room to room, doing those little things you’ve meant to do eventually (changing light bulbs, throwing away old eye shadows, paging through catalogs that have stacked up on the counter…). You let your wander with your body, shedding superfluous worries with the abandon of a cat dropping hair on black pants.

Puttering has no goal unless you count the million little that crop up, to either be accomplished or not. I take profound pleasure in tossing those catalogs in the recycle bin, blowing drifts of leaves off the driveway, organizing my sock drawer. In puttering, I simply follow along wherever my meandering mind takes me--and if I don’t finish something, so what? I’ll finish something else. Have you ever noticed how soothing sweeping the floor can be?

On this day, after some indoor puttering, I strolled to the backyard, where I became suddenly aware of the paving stones that have waited patiently for more than a year to be placed. So I got a shovel and got to work. And in setting my brain free while I did the heavy lifting, I managed to re-envision the patio into something that’s becoming quite pleasing.

And yes, I even moved the bag of mulch that had been laying where I dropped it when I took it out of my car trunk so many months ago--although I did enjoy the running joke it had become. Stays where you put it! the bag boasted. Indeed it did.

I went into the house, then out. In, out. In, out. I did this, and did that, and then I did the other thing. Talked to myself, sang along with the radio, listened to a couple of the podcasts I earnestly downloaded long ago, for when I had time. For a while I just sat silently and stared into space as the frantic chatter in my brain slowed to a gentle mutter and then trailed off.

To an extent, puttering is a gesture of respect from our brains to our physical selves. It’s not about thinking, or reading, or producing. Instead, we take on “mindless tasks” that need only the most minimal participation of the brain We acknowledge our surroundings, consider what makes us comfortable, and tend to those things, however aimlessly.

This is not the same as housekeeping, which is more the drudgery of keeping a house functional. That’s serious, stodgy work. This is the frill on the turkey, taking care of the visual clutter that tends to exacerbate the racket of a busy brain. If we let our brains lead, they drift towards the little disturbances—piles of mail, unfinished projects—so we may handle them. We wash the bedroom curtains. Hang a picture. Make things nice.

When my life gets full, puttering around the house invariably falls off my schedule. On one hand, it seems indulgent. But it’s also not something one ordinarily schedules. Puttering typically occurs spontaneously, in between all the other things one does. It is both an activity, and the absence of activity.

But I realized the other day, as I drifted around the house, that this day of hardcore puttering felt deeply therapeutic. Set it free from all constraints, my brain meandered at its own pace and in its own way, unclenching and creating space through which fresh ideas wafted. It was relaxing, and refreshing, and rejuvenating. Plus I got rid of those catalogs.

====== 26 ========

TIME AND SPACE MAY BE PERCEIVED BY A COMMON BRAIN SYSTEM

Time and space are fundamental dimensions of the universe. Those dimensions are conventionally scaled by distinctly different methods of measurement. We use hourglasses and watches to record the passage of time; we use rulers and gauge blocks to index length. Yet, Albert Einstein’s revolutionary theory of relativity upset this simplistic apple cart by suggesting that time and space are actually inseparable.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

Einstein’s startling suggestion certainly challenges common sense. Nevertheless, research in science and has recently revealed that we use a shared neurobiological mechanism to make psychological judgments of time and space.

In one key piece of behavioral evidence, researchers found that the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length people reported it to be. In a parallel fashion, the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration people reported it to be. This surprising interdependence violates the belief that—at least psychologically—space and time are independent dimensions.

Furthering the unexpected of this finding is the fact that rhesus monkeys responded in the same way as did people when given comparable testing procedures. Clearly, the psychological interdependence of space and time is not uniquely human. Nevertheless, as primates, both monkeys and humans share key neural structures like the cerebral cortex.

Source: Monkeyland, South Africa

In our own research at The University of Iowa, we sought to advance our of the common processing of time and space by attempting to replicate the psychological interdependence of space and time in the pigeon—an animal which, like all birds, does not have a cerebral cortex. Remarkably, pigeons behaved just as did humans and monkeys: the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length pigeons reported it to be and the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration pigeons reported it to be.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

When adaptive behaviors are shared by extremely distant phylogenetic relatives, it is generally assumed that their evolution independently arose in response to common survival demands. Exactly what may have encouraged the common processing of time and space by birds and mammals has yet to be determined. Still, it is clear that the very differently organized brains of birds and mammals exhibit a common functionality: a finding that is turning out to be more common than is conventionally expected.

Indeed, the cognitive prowess of birds is now deemed to be ever closer to that of both human and nonhuman primates. Those avian nervous systems are capable of far greater achievements than the pejorative “bird brain” would ever have suggested.

====== 27 ========

ARE YOU SELFISH OR DO YOU JUST HAVE HEALTHY SELF-INTEREST?

Doris believed that decent, kind and considerate people never put their own needs before those of others, especially when dealing with loved ones. She thought only selfish people who failed to care about the feeling and wishes of others would ever put their own desires first. Unsurprisingly, Doris often felt people took unfair advantage of her and did not reciprocate her selflessness. In fact, most of her family and seemed to believe Doris was a bit of a martyr and derived satisfaction from her self-sacrificial M.O. In reality, however, she often felt resentful but because of and could never bring herself to express her true feelings.



After a brief course of CBT, emphasizing rational reframing and training, Doris reported feeling much better about herself and many of her . What I call the “O2 metaphor” (O2 as in oxygen) seemed to particularly resonate with Doris:



Imagine you’re flying a commercial jet seated between a very young child and a frail, very old adult. All of a sudden the cabin loses pressure. The oxygen masks deploy and drop down in front of everybody. Now, who is the first person you put the oxygen mask on? The helpless child? The struggling senior? No, and no! As every flight attendant will announce during the safety briefing, we are instructed to put on our own mask first before attempting to help anyone else. Because if we don’t, we’ll pass out almost immediately. And then, not only will we have failed help the child and/or the senior, but we now need help ourselves. Yet if we had first taken just a few seconds to secure our own air supply, we then would have been able to attend to the people around us who might need help. Also, by taking care of ourselves first, we can often avoid the predicament of needing assistance ourselves. Thus, often, only by helping ourselves first can we be a position to offer or provide help to others. This is the main difference between healthy self-interest and selfishness.



In essence, selfishness involves satisfying your own needs at the expense of others. Healthy self-interest is simply taking care of yourself but not at the expense of others. Related to this is the unfortunate notion that it is better to give than to receive. Why? This mistaken idea has led many people like Doris to be ungracious about accepting things from others. The irony is that it can be selfish to refuse to let someone to do a kind deed for us because it deprives them of satisfaction. Hence, neither giving or receiving is “better.” It is best to give and to receive.



At the heart of Doris’s lack of assertiveness was an element of rejection and abandonment . Indeed, many people believe that if they say “no,” or put themselves first, it will lead people to dislike them and might even rupture their relationships. But when we realize if someone reacts so dramatically to a simple act of healthy expression, the problem is with them and not with the assertive person. In these cases, it’s often necessary to recalibrate the relationship and keep in mind that the other person has some significant personal and interpersonal challenges.



So, when you’re about to say “yes” when you’d really rather say “no,” think of the O2 metaphor. Also, try not to be held hostage by exaggerated fears of your relationships’ fragility. Any healthy and truly meaningful intimacy ought to easily withstand a an occasional “no” and balanced instances of enlightened self-interest. Finally, allow yourself to receive gifts and accept kind acts from others so that they don’t feel rejected and fail to derive the pleasure of giving.



Remember: Think well, Act Well, Feel well, Be well!

Dear Reader: The advertisements contained in this post do not necessarily reflect my opinions nor are they endorsed by me. — Clifford

Copyright 2018 by Clifford N. Lazarus, Ph.D. This post is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional assistance or personal mental treatment by a qualified clinician.

====== 28 ========

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN LEADERS OVERESTIMATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS?

The very best leaders are self-aware. They know their strengths and limitations. They strive to overcome those limitations and become better leaders. At the same time, it takes self- to be a leader.

What happens when self-awareness takes a backseat to too much leader self-confidence?

Research by Leanne Atwater and colleagues has shown that leaders who overestimate their effectiveness tend to be and have too much belief in their own competence and are unrealistically – believing that they will be more successful than circumstances will allow. In addition, overestimators tend to ignore criticism and thus are unlikely to see their own flaws and they don’t work to overcome their weaknesses.

What about those who underestimate their leadership effectiveness?

Underestimators tend to overemphasize their weaknesses and undervalue their true leadership strengths. This leads to a lack of self-confidence (although some underestimators may work hard to try to compensate for their perceived weaknesses).

How about leaders who are accurate in estimating their leader effectiveness?

These leaders understand their leadership strengths and shortcomings and are better able to employ their skills, and work to develop those that are lacking.

How do researchers measure estimation of leadership effectiveness?

It is done by having both leaders rate themselves and the followers/direct reports of the leader completing the same ratings of leadership effectiveness. The amount of agreement/disagreement leads to determination of leader under and over estimators, and those leaders who have a good of how they are seen by their followers.

The research also shows that leaders who are in agreement with the ratings of their followers have higher potential for promotion and lower risk of experiencing leader derailment. In other words, knowing oneself, and how one is viewed by followers, helps boost a leader’s effectiveness, success, and continued leader development.

Follow me on : http://twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 29 ========

THE SIMPLE GESTURE THAT ENHANCES HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

Source: CC0 Creative Commons

In my twelve-step fellowship, we greet each other with a hug. Whenever I see my daughters, we hug. I’m not talking about a fleeting, drive-by, bro-style pat-on-the-back hug, but rather one that is substantial, sustained, and heartfelt. Hugging another person with intention and feeling is a powerful form of recognition, an unequivocal acknowledgement that he or she matters. It is often an indicator of emotional intimacy that says, “I got you,” even—or perhaps especially—in the face of adversity.

Physiologically, hugging precipitates the release of , often referred to as the “bonding hormone” because it promotes and strengthens existing bonds and , which includes the bond between mothers and their newborn babies. In this way, hugging and other forms of caring touch likely emerged as an evolutionary imperative—facilitating connection to enhance survival. Oxytocin is a chemical of interpersonal connection, not only released through physical closeness with another person but also through other forms of bonding, such as eye contact, smiling, and attentiveness.

In addition to such psychological sustenance, hugging also provides significant benefits, starting with its reducing, calming effects. Recent research demonstrates that oxytocin is associated with decreases in the stress cortisol and norepinephrine, as well as increased levels of the feel-good neurotransmitters and serotonin (the body’s natural ). Moreover, there’s evidence that hugs and the oxytocin release that accompanies them reduce heart rate and blood pressure, increase feelings of well-being, and improve immune system function and pain tolerance.[1]

Physical embrace in the form of hugging is an action with tremendous bang for the buck. Engaging in hugs and other forms of caring touch, such as placing an arm around someone shows kindness; putting a hand on another’s shoulder communicates support. Caring touch has multiple physiological and emotional benefits for both people. It reduces blood pressure, lowers cortisol, and stimulates the release of oxytocin. Touching also releases serotonin, which soothes and regulates mood.

Caring touch is a primary language of . It provides emotional nourishment—awakening and increasing feelings of calmness, trust, and secure attachment between parents and their children. Make time to connect with your children, regardless of how busy you are. Tell them that you love them—often. Too many parents don’t do this or only do it rarely, many assuming “they already know I love them.”

One of the ironies of human nature is that all too frequently, people make an effort to be more overtly kind and considerate to other people (sometimes complete strangers) than to their own families. They may be much harder on those with whom they are closest—partners and children in particular—taking the connection and relationship for granted. This was the case with my own father, and there have been times I succumbed to this phenomenon as well.

For five years during the mid-1990s, I was the clinical director for a hospital-based treatment program that provided medically managed detoxification and rehabilitation for adults. In addition to supervising the program’s social workers and counselors, my role included functioning as a sort of vice-principal, dealing directly with violations of program rules and determining consequences. We worked with an extremely challenged and challenging population, and when patients acted out—which occurred in all manner of ways—they had to meet with me. In response to my usual intentional professional demeanor, with surprising frequency, they would ask me, “Do you ever get angry?” In response, I’d smile and assure them that since is a natural human emotion, everyone gets angry sometimes.

On my return home, I’d tell my kids that the patients at work once again asked if I ever got angry, to which my elder daughter’s reaction was a combination snort-snigger followed by an always incredulous variation on the theme of “If they only knew.” While I took considerable pride in my professional , its incongruity with the liberties of laxity I sometimes took as a parent and partner only inspired self-reproach.

We need to be consciously aware of the tendency to take the people we love and their presence in our lives for granted and treat them less well. With this awareness, we are more likely to treat them with the kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love they deserve.

is a link in the chain that connects the past with the future. How did the way your parents talked to you influence your , your self-talk? Keep in mind that how you treat and talk to your children becomes part of how they treat and talk to themselves.

Every day, you participate in myriad encounters, each of which has an impact on other people, your , and you. The impacts of your actions ripple far beyond what you know or can observe, so with conscious effort, you can build more kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love into your actions throughout the day.

The size of the actions matters not; they all have meaning and value. Everything you do that is positive makes a positive difference somehow, somewhere, and in some way, especially with your children. As expressed so elegantly by psychologist and philosopher William James, “Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference. It does.”

Copyright 2018 Dan Mager, MSW

Author of Roots and Wings: Mindful Parenting in Recovery and Some Assembly Required: A Balanced Approach to Recovery from Addiction and

====== 30 ========

THE HUNGRY CONSUMER

The Hungry Consumer

Overzealous consumerism and holiday gift-giving is a double whammy. Today might be dedicated to excessive and aggressive shopping, but it comes one day after we’re supposed to appreciate all that we have. What does that say about us?

====== 31 ========

WHY WE CONSUME SO MUCH

In agricultural societies of the past, farmers were mostly self sufficient. They worked hard but consumed little. Today we consume so much that the oceans are filled with trash. What changed?

Rising Disposable Income

A great deal has happened. To begin with, rising global affluence following the Industrial Revolution put a lot more money in people's wage packets (1). The proportion of pay being spent on non essentials like food and shelter declined, leaving a surplus of “disposable income”.

This had several important consequences. Social mobility took off. Workers began using their disposable income to communicate social success and status.

This could be one reason that the bulk of disposable income is devoted to leisure activities. Of course, such activities are also pleasurable in themselves, from enjoying sunshine in a vacation spot to fine dining, or driving luxury vehicles.

In feudal societies there had been minimal social mobility and a luxurious lifestyle was the exclusive preserve of the landed elite.

This scenario changed profoundly with the rise of the middle classes following the Industrial Revolution. Some scholars argue that the lives of ordinary people in developed countries today are more luxurious in material terms than those of the most sybaritic monarchs of the past (such as Louis 16th of France) given the variety of consumer goods available (2).

The Rise of

Social mobility preceded the steam-engine-based Industrial Revolution. Cloth manufacturers “put out” their orders, or subcontracted them, to cottage weavers. Using tallow candles that shed a bright and steady light, cotters worked night and day to fill their orders and saw a modest increase in their standard of living (3).

Due to rising wages, a person could save to buy a better home, or better furniture, or more elegant clothing. With social mobility, every person was responsible for their own station in life. Keeping up with the Joneses was born.

The period preceding the factory production of cloth is aptly named the “Industrious Revolution (3).” It was accompanied by slow but steady economic growth culminating in the modern era of cheap global shipping and runaway consumption.

When living standards rise, beneficiaries are never really content with where they are. There is always someone else who has a better home, a better car, better furniture, or sends their children to better schools, or spends more on cosmetic surgery.

Aspiring to lead a more luxurious life is a treadmill that keeps consumers in debt and constantly working harder to get where everyone else seems to be. This is a positive climate for businesses.

, Advertising, and Artificial Needs

The desire for more goods and services is enabled by modern communication technologies. This played out following the introduction of television to towns in the US West. The rise of petty thefts that followed was motivated by dissatisfaction of viewers with their standard of living compared to that depicted on the small screen (4). In marketing terms, demand for many consumer goods was created overnight.

The same phenomenon occurs on the Internet where users are exposed to luxurious living by celebrities around the globe. Of course, Internet shopping is the ultimate enabler for luxury goods because they are rarely more than a few clicks away.

The desire for luxurious, and status-signaling, products is a powerful motive for workers. Indeed Thorstein Veblen, an early sociologist, argued that “conspicuous consumption” is the main reason that people with money choose to spend it (5).

The carrots of consumption may well be more potent than the sticks of in boosting work effort. Ordinary consumers today behave rather like the elites of the past with the key difference that elites don't need to work. Even the poorest segment of our society give in to cravings for luxury goods from designer watches, shoes, and sunglasses to electronic devices and cars.

Modern societies are something of a rat where people work hard at consuming during their off time and work even harder during their hours on the job so that they can earn enough to pay their bills. The irony is that although we live like the kings of history in terms of material standard of living, we do not recognize this reality (1, 2).

The flavor of this discontent is captured in the witticism that a rising tide lifts all yachts (rather than all boats). Improvements in living conditions in developed countries are real, substantial, and historically unprecedented, although pessimists cannot accept this and focus upon the unequal distribution of wealth.

Life expectancy of US residents doubled in the 20th century, for example, but this fact is lost today in concern over the fact that rich people live longer.

We would also like their money and avarice is a cruel master. Despite having too much, we are tormented by the desire for more knowing that other people are a lot better off than we are.

====== 32 ========

DO YOU HAVE TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING?

The old green paint on our house was chipped and fading, the color chosen years ago by the former owners. So my husband and decided to get the house painted gray with a white trim. We contacted a painter who brought us two books of paint chips with pages and pages of different shades of gray.

Wandering through what seemed like fifty shades of gray, we experienced what psychologists Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward called “the paradox of choice” (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Overwhelmed by all the options, it took us over a week to make our choice.

Psychologists tell us that being able to choose is a sign of autonomy and well-being (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Americans value freedom of choice as fundamental to our democracy, essential to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of .” We want to be free to explore our options, free to choose where we live and work and what we buy. If choice is good, then it follows that more choice is better. Or is it?

Source: By Huguenau. beer and wine aisle of a supermarket. Public domain on Wikimedia Commons.

Research has revealed that too many choices can paralyze us with indecision. Schwartz and Ward mention a supermarket that offers 285 brands of cookies, 230 soups, and 275 types of cereal. I recall the supermarket a scene in the film “Moscow on Hudson.” After years of waiting in line for coffee in Russia, a young defector played by Robin Williams, enters a New York market. Looking around frantically at all the choices in the coffee aisle and repeating “coffee, coffee, coffee,” he passes out from sensory overload.

How many choices are enough? Too much? In 1954, psychologist George Miller published an article about “the magic number seven, plus or minus two,” arguing that we can only keep 5 to 9 items in our working at a time. More than that and it becomes too much to manage.

Our economy presents us with a dizzying array of options, but, as Schwartz and his colleagues have pointed out, people actually feel worse as their choices increase (Schwartz et al, 2002) And now the Internet offers us an endless succession of posts on social , pop-up advertisements, videos, and links.

What’s the effect of all this? Is our culture offering us greater autonomy or distracting us from the important choices in our lives with a dizzying range of consumer choices?

Research has shown that people who “maximize”—trying to make the best possible choice from a wide range of options—experience greater , , self-doubt, and regret than those who “satisfice,” accepting a result good enough to meet their desired criteria (Schwartz et al, 2002).

So the next time you are faced with what seems like an endless array of options, you might want to consider what you’re really looking for. What are the important criteria that would make you satisfied with this choice?

References

Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. The Psychological Review, 63, 81-97.

Schwartz, B., &Ward, A. (2004). Doing better but feeling worse: The paradox of choice. In P. A. Linley & S. Joseph (Eds.). in Practice (pp. 86-104). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Schwartz, B., Ward, A., Monterosso, J, Lyubomirsky, S., White, K., & Lehman, D. (2002). Maximizing versus satisficing: Happiness is a matter of choice. Journal of and Social Psychology, 83, 1178-1197.

====== 33 ========

IS INSTAGRAM MAKING YOU POOR?

There’s a game I like to play whenever I feel the gut-punch of while scrolling through social . I call it, “How much did that selfie cost?” I play this game to remind myself that many people, including my , are spending WAY TOO MUCH MONEY on things that don’t last, often racking up credit-card debt that will keep them up at night for months, all for the glory of that one fabulous photo.

How much did that selfie cost? Usually, the answer is, “Too much,” but that doesn’t necessarily stop us from feeling a twinge of pain when we look at these posts. In fact, evidence has been mounting for a while that social media may cause or increase 1. Short of logging off completely, how’s a person supposed to deal with the onslaught of social comparisons that we face each time we check in with our friends and family? In this article, I'll talk about why we NEED (yes, need) to compare ourselves, and how we can do it in a healthy way.

Comparisons are inevitable

Some people advocate a lifestyle free of comparisons. Just stop, they say, and you’ll be happier and healthier. That’s a nice sentiment, but not very practical. First of all, even if you cut yourself off from all social media, you would still have the daily reminder of other people’s lives and money through their cars, clothes, houses, etc. Long before social media, the Joneses were the target of envy. Now, we have the Joneses, the Kardashians, and everyone in between, but regardless of how or to whom we are comparing, the very ACT of comparing ourselves with others is an innate human activity, and to suggest that we can just stop is to deny the reality of human .

Back in the 1950’s Leon Festinger wrote a groundbreaking paper on 2 that has since become the foundation of an entire branch of psychology. In this work, he laid out considerable evidence for two ideas.

1. “There exists, in the human organism, a drive to evaluate his opinions and his abilities.”3

Simply put, we want to know how we measure up. We need to have a sense of how well we are living; how successfully we are doing this thing called life. The standards by which we judge ourselves may differ wildly depending on our time, our culture, our age, our tastes, etc. but the need to evaluate our life’s progress by some standard is innate and can’t be removed. It’s natural and can be healthy if done right (more on this later).

2. “To the extent that objective, non-social means are not available, people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison respectively with the opinions and abilities of others.”3

There is no objective standard that defines what it means to live well. I can measure my by objective standards like BMI, cholesterol, blood pressure, and the presence or absence of disease. When it comes to lifestyle, there is no metric that marks the line where someone is considered successful. Rather, we are left to define success for ourselves, and often we use our friends, family, colleagues, and even strangers as the scale by which we measure our progress. This can be a problem when it comes to our financial lives.

Comparisons can be toxic

The problem isn’t that we compare ourselves, it’s WHO we choose as the target for comparison. I recently surveyed a group of people about their financial lives, their financial comparisons, and their emotional well-being. What I found was quite interesting.

We tend to compare up, and that brings us down.

Regardless of how poor or wealthy people were, most of them tended to compare themselves with those they thought were better off4. That's understandable when you are on the bottom of the economic ladder (there’s nowhere to look but up), but even those earning top salaries were more likely to judge themselves against those with more. Maybe we think that by looking at those further up the ladder we’ll be motivated to improve ourselves? That’s possible, but the effect of upward comparisons was fairly toxic, from what I could see.

In every income group, people who reported making frequent, upward comparisons also reported having more debt, lower savings, higher levels, and lower satisfaction with their own situation than people who compared themselves with those less fortunate. When asked about the emotions they experienced in their own financial lives, people who compared upward were experiencing significantly more negative feelings than those who did not.

Source: Source: Morningstar, Inc.

Clearly, comparing up isn’t doing us any favors. This suggests that when we scan Instagram or and judge our own lives by the way they compare to those dream vacation photos and shiny new cars all our friends are enjoying, we may be actively sabotaging our own finances. But if Festinger was right, and social comparisons are inevitable, then how are we supposed to avoid doing damage to our hearts and our wallets?

The Exception to the Rule

In my study, there was a small group that defied the trend. Most people said that they usually compared themselves to a friend, family member, neighbor or colleague. All of these comparison targets followed the same trend: upward comparisons were most common, and they were associated with lower financial well-being.

The exception to the rule was a small group of people who said they compare themselves to a role model or mentor. In this group, regardless of whether the role model was better or worse off, financially, the person making the comparison tended to feel good about their own financial life. Not just good, but compared to the rest of the bunch, they felt great!

I followed this study with an experiment where I asked one group of people to choose a financial role model and answer a few questions about them while another group answered questions about their normal comparison targets. Both groups then answered questions about their financial habits and emotions.

The people who thought about a role model were significantly more confident and felt more in control of their financial lives after the exercise than the people who made their normal comparisons. This suggests that, while we can’t get rid of our need to compare, we might be able to make those comparisons work FOR us and not against us.

How to choose a role model (and not have it backfire)

Research into the effects of role models on and behavior suggests that we need to take care when we choose a role model, or the results can backfire5. Penelope Lockwood is a giant in this area of research, and her work suggests that people need to be careful when choosing a role model. According to the results of her studies, people who choose a role model whose success is far beyond what they themselves believe they can realistically achieve can actually become demoralized rather than energized by the comparison. This is why Warren Buffet is probably not a good financial role model. Unless what you admire and want to emulate is his humility and habit of living below his means, then using him as your comparison target will probably do you more harm than good.

So, RIGHT NOW, think about someone whose financial life or behavior you admire. You don’t need to know them or their finances well. The point is to find someone whose lifestyle you admire (even if you only have a glimpse), and that you think you can realistically achieve for yourself over time. Make sure the goal you are setting is realistic, positive, and practical. Anecdotally, when I have done this exercise with strangers, be they online survey participants, friends, colleagues, or financial advisors, there are two things that people seem to admire most:

1. Contentment.

2. A lack of stress over money.

These characteristics likely go hand in hand.

Once you have someone in mind, ask yourself the following questions:

1. What is it about their financial life or behavior that you admire?

2. What qualities or values do you think have led them to their current situation?

3. Do you have (or can you cultivate) any of those qualities or values?

4. What is ONE small thing you can do RIGHT AWAY to be just a little more like them, financially?

5. Picture yourself doing that one thing, even just once.

Role models can help channel our natural need to compare into an action-oriented energy that helps us to make progress toward a real goal. By redirecting our toxic comparisons to this role model, we can (hopefully) avoid the overspending (or under-saving) that can come from trying to keep up with the expensive selfie habits of the masses.

Conclusion

The next time you come across that gut-punch Instagram post, catch yourself. Take a breath and think about the person you just named above. Remind yourself of the qualities you admire in them, and of the good things that are around the corner for you by following in their footsteps. Maybe, then, that expensive selfie won’t seem quite so admirable in comparison.

====== 34 ========

HOW REFLECTING ON OUR POSSESSIONS CAN CURB IMPULSE BUYING

“Wilful waste makes woeful want.” – Mrs. Gaskell, Wives and Daughters, 1866.

A consistent theme of this blog is discussing ways to shop, buy, and consume prudently, and derive maximum pleasure from these activities. Unfortunately, most of us have far too many possessions to fully enjoy or use. Yet we keep adding to our store of belongings in ways big and small. Instead of increasing enjoyment, our possessions overwhelm us and our total pleasure is reduced.

Source: Row of Shoes by Duong Tran Quoc Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

Take the case of shoes. American men own an average of 11 pairs and American women own 13 pairs. Their shoe collection equates to two and a half weeks of income for the average American. Yet, people use only about three pairs regularly and own several shoes they have never worn.

The twentieth-century aphorism, “Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without,” seems laughably quaint and naïve in the light of such excessive shopping activity. We hardly use up or wear our any of our belongings, and instead of making do or doing without, we keep buying new ones.

Can we turn this ship around, so to speak? In this post, I want to write about an interesting finding from a research paper that I coauthored with two Rice University doctoral students, Jihye Jung and Nivriti Chowdhri which suggests one promising method. In the research, we studied the usefulness of a we call “reflection” to reduce people's shopping urges. It can be used “just in time” – right when an urge to buy something is experienced.

Reflection is about thinking deeply and remembering in detail how you used any one of your possessions recently. In our research, we’ve found it helps if the reflected-upon possession is something functional, like a kitchen implement, a lawn-mower or a wristwatch. Here’s the instruction from one of our studies which included 165 participants:

“In this exercise, your task is to describe your recent experience with a product. Specifically, we would like you to think of any product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 1: Take a minute and think of a product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 2: In a few sentences, please describe this product in detail. Step 3: Now we want you to describe how you used the product on the most recent occasion. In the space provided below, explain WHEN, WHERE, HOW, and HOW LONG you used this product. Please describe your experience with the product in as much detail as possible, and please spend at least TWO MINUTES on this task.”

And here are two examples of our participants’ reflections to give you a better sense of the exercise:

Source: Shoe Wardrobe by Jakob Owens Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

“I have a pair of light Nike running shoes I used this morning. I bought them about a year ago for about $80. The reason I bought them was because my brother has a same pair which I tried on and really liked so I bought my own. I used them this morning to go for a run. I went for a run around the neighborhood for half an hour. I really like these shoes because they're really light and they breathe easy. I use them to go on runs. Sometimes I use them at work since I do a lot of walking and they are so comfortable.” (25-year-old male).

“I just purchased a Kindle Fire. It is black. I can read books and access the internet. It opens a world of novelty to me. I read a book in bed and checked the weather this morning before even getting up. I spent about 45 mins. I also downloaded several apps. I was laying down and the ease of Kindle use allowed me to comfortably read without noise to wake up my partner.” (29-year-old female).

The study had two other conditions. One was a control condition in which participants didn’t do anything. In the other condition, they formed a plan to use a possession they hadn’t recently used, which is a common situation many of us face because we have so many things we haven't used recently.

After this experimental manipulation, study participants were given a series of five products. These were a cashmere sweater, a stainless steel watch, a coffee maker, a chair, and a box of Godiva chocolates. For each item, participants indicated how much they were willing to pay (WTP) for it. We calculated a WTP index for each participant, by standardizing each item’s WTP and then adding the values.

Source: Reflection study results/ Graphic by Utpal Dholakia

As the figure shows, those who had reflected on using their possession recently had a much lower willingness-to-pay for a basket of products than either the control or the plan conditions. To give you a sense of the actual numbers, the total WTP for the five items of those who reflected was $227, compared to $265 for the control group and $281 for the planning group. In other words, reflection about recently used possessions lowered the person’s willingness-to-pay for new items by about 14% compared to the control condition.

Reflection is like a mental “shopping the closet” visualization, and a useful way to stifle the urge to buy new things. Why does this effect occur? That will be the subject of a future blog post.

====== 35 ========

DEMOCRATS FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGING SECULAR VOTERS

Source: DonkeyHotey, Flickr, Creative Commons license

The recent midterm elections reflect the increasing clout of secular voters, a group that has grown significantly in recent years, and at least one major party is starting to take note.

According to polling data released by Pew, 17 percent of voters in 2018 were religiously unaffiliated, up from only 11 percent in 2006 and 12 percent in both 2010 and 2014. While this unaffiliated bloc grew by about half, the “Protestant/other Christian” bloc was shrinking, down from 55 percent in 2006 and 2010, to 53 percent in 2014, to only 47 percent this year.

As impressive as these figures are for the religiously unaffiliated (also known as “Nones”), the numbers suggest that there is room for even more growth. The 17 percent figure, for example, still trails the overall size of the religiously unaffiliated demographic nationwide (24 percent of the United States population as a whole, according to PRRI data, and an even larger percentage of the younger population). The Nones were in single digits a generation ago, but now they are one of the largest and youngest demographics.

The growth of the influence of Nones would appear to be good news for Democrats, as recent history shows that the unaffiliated tend to lean heavily blue. In the 2010, 2014 and 2018 midterms, about seven in ten Nones voted Democratic. By comparison, 50 percent of Catholics votes for Democrats in 2018, and slightly fewer in 2010 and 2014. Protestants have favored Republicans in each of the last four midterm elections, according to the Pew data, with white evangelicals being the most solidly in the GOP corner (75 percent in 2018 and similar figures in previous years).

For anyone familiar with the culture wars, none of these numbers should be very surprising. The Religious Right has called the GOP home since 1980 when the Majority helped elect Ronald Reagan, and the party has consistently courted the conservative Christian demographic ever since. Opposing abortion rights and LGBT rights, denying scientific consensus on issues like evolution and global warming when it conflicts with literal interpretations of the Bible, Republicans have frequently snubbed the secular demographic while catering to the party’s Christian base. As such, it’s no surprise that those who say they “never” go to church voted 68/30 for Democrats in 2018, according to the Pew data, whereas those who attend church weekly voted for Republicans 58/40.

Despite the GOP's romance with the Christian right, over the years the Democratic Party has never openly pursued the nonreligious demographic. On the contrary, elected Democrats have usually been older, oblivious the growing secularity of the population, and they’ve often accepted the much-repeated but inaccurate claim that America is a “very religious country.” Although a large and growing portion of the American population is secular, and even many who claim religious affiliation are lukewarm about it, establishment Democrats have unfortunately been slow on the uptake.

Finally, however, there are signs that Democrats are starting to appreciate the importance of the Nones. In what might be a first, the Massachusetts Democratic Party this month passed a resolution recognizing the importance of the religiously unaffiliated demographic. (Full disclosure: I was involved in drafting the resolution.) The resolution, which can be seen here, recognizes the “value, ethical soundness, and importance of the religiously unaffiliated” and affirms that “the ‘Nones’ are a group that, as much as any other, advocates for rational public policy based on sound science and universal humanistic values.” The document is also critical of the use of claims of “religious liberty” as a means of justifying policy that threatens the rights of women and minorities.

Time will tell whether other states, or even the national party, will follow the Massachusetts lead, but it seems clear that many are starting to recognize that the secular demographic is not going away. Earlier this year, for example, several members of Congress even formed a Congressional Freethought Caucus to solidify the presence of secular values on Capitol Hill. Perhaps not surprisingly, all members of the caucus so far are Democrats.

As the secular demographic grows and flexes its muscle, time will tell whether the GOP makes an effort to attract them. Seculars are not monolithic, so traditional Republican mantras of low taxes and deregulation might resonate with some, but the secular numbers within the GOP are likely to remain relatively low so long as the Christian right is steering the ship. As such, if demographics continue to trend secular, at some point Republicans will have to consider whether there is a future in Bible-based .

On : @ahadave

====== 36 ========

7 REASONS WHY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE HAVING LESS SEX

In our highly sexualized and increasingly permissive culture, you might think that young adults are having more than ever before. If so, you would be wrong.

In a lengthy and very popular cover story in the December 2018 issue of The Atlantic magazine, “The Sex Recession,” Kate Julian argues that “young people are launching their sex lives later and having sex less frequently than members of previous generations.” The question is why.

Among the evidence Julian cites:

“In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t.”

"People now in their early 20s are two and a half times as likely to be abstinent as Gen Xers were at that age; 15 percent report having had no sex since they reached adulthood.”

In the U.S., “about 60 percent of adults under age 35 now live without a spouse or a partner.” (Of course, that does not mean they live without sex – more on that later.)

In Japan in 2015, 43 percent of young people (ages 18 to 34) were virgins. Married people were not having much sex, either: 47 percent said it had been more than a month since they had sex.

Julian mentioned in passing many possible reasons for what she calls “the sex recession,” but underscored 6 as having come up most often in her research and interviews. (She combined parental pressure with hook-up culture; I’m separating them. I’ve also changed the order of the reasons.) I’ll recount her reasons first. Then I will add a 7th reason, my own. I’ll also explain what I think Julian got wrong. I’ll end by suggesting that the real issue is one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology: What are humans really like?

Here are The Atlantic’s top 6 reasons for the sexual recession.

1. Parental Pressure

It’s their ’ fault. That’s one of the reasons author Kate Julian posits for the decline in sex among young adults. Invoking the term of derision, “helicopter parents,” she says that parents’ “about their children’s educational and economic prospects” has increased. Parents are urging their kids to focus on building their credentials in high school and college rather than investing in . They are also supervising their kids more closely, leaving them with less free time for fooling around away from watchful eyes.

2. Bodily Self-consciousness, Distraction, Deprivation, and Other Sources of Inhibition

Young adults may be having less sex because their potential for being aroused is being undermined in many ways. Digital distractions are among the most obvious potential culprits. Sleep deprivation doesn’t help, either. Having a negative , or feeling self-conscious about your naked body, can also stand in the way of sexual fulfillment, and Julian suggests that today’s young adults may struggle more with these issues.

If, as some have suggested, anxiety and are on the rise in the younger generations, that, too, could account for some of the decrease in sex. Anti-depressants can also undermine sexual desire.

3. The Problem with Apps

It might seem like the proliferation of dating apps has made it easier to find dating partners, but that is not necessarily so. Kate Julian found that Tinder tends to be a huge waste of time. It takes an average of more than 60 swipes to get one match, and many matches do not result in a 2-way exchange of text-messages.

And, of course, the matches are not evenly distributed. The “highly photogenic” people, as Julian tactfully puts it, are the ones finding dating apps most useful.

The expectation that people will use dating apps to connect with other people has, Julian believes, a troubling implication. The kinds of casual overtures that people used to make, now seem creepy. Apparently, that even applies to striking up conversations in bars.

If dating apps are wildly inefficient and ineffective, and it is problematic to ask people out (even if you have gotten to know them a bit, for example, by working in the same building or playing on the same ), then finding opportunities to have sex is going to be difficult, too.

4. Hook-ups Instead of Romantic Relationships

If young people were having copious amounts of hook-up sex, then maybe their overall rates of sex would not be decreasing, even though they are dating less often and are less likely to have special romantic relationships. Actual rates of casual sex, though, have not lived up to the hype.

Here is Kate Julian’s summary of the findings from Lisa Wade’s book, American Hookup: The New Culture of Sex on Campus:

“Roughly one-third were…”abstainers” – they opted out of hook-up culture entirely. A little more than a third were “dabblers” – they hooked up sometimes, but ambivalently. Less than a quarter were “enthusiasts,” who delighted in hooking up. The remainder were in long-term relationships.”

The percentages probably translate into something like this:

33 percent, abstainers

35 percent, dabblers

23 percent, enthusiasts

9 percent, long-term relationships

5. Sex Is Bad or Painful More Often Than We Realize

Another reason the rate of sex may be decreasing is that, more often than we realize, the sex that young adults are having is bad sex or painful sex. They are also more willing to say “no thanks” to having any more of it.

Young adults are experiencing more of the kinds of sex that is popularized in , such as anal sex and choking (erotic asphyxiation). Julian points to a study showing that the percent of women in their late 20s who had tried anal sex had doubled from 20 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 2012. Research shows, she says, that “in the absence of high-quality sex , teen boys look to porn for help sex.”

Plenty of women are not enjoying anal sex or vaginal intercourse. In 2012, Julian notes, 30 percent of women experienced pain during vaginal intercourse and a whopping 72 percent said that the anal sex they experienced was painful.

Orgasms in the context of hookups with a new partner are strikingly rare. In the study Julian described, just 31 percent of men and a jaw-droppingly low 11 percent of women experienced under those conditions.

One of the sex researchers Julian interviewed, Debby Herbenick, suggests a positive interpretation of the decline in the frequency with which young people are having sex. Today’s adults feel freer to say no to sex they don’t want.

Julian also believes that women are now valuing their female more. She seems to attribute that to their disappointment with men and romantic relationships. (I think that interpretation, on its own, is demeaning. My reading of the relevant information is that appreciation for our friends is growing, even apart from any bad experiences with heterosexual romantic relationships.)

6. People Are Satisfying Their Sexual Desires, Just Not with Other People

Although rates of intercourse have been decreasing – the main finding that the Atlantic article was trying to explain – that doesn’t mean that people are not experiencing sexual pleasure. One of the studies Julian mentioned found dramatic increases in rates of from 1992 to 2014 – double for men (in 2014, 54 percent said that they masturbated in a given week) and more than triple for women (26 percent).

The increase could be linked to the greater accessibility of porn over time. Other products and services that facilitate sexual experiences without involving other humans are also becoming more popular – sex dolls, for example.

Stop Blaming Single People

Kate Julian said she started out expecting to say more about “the benefits of loosening social conventions, and of less couple-centric pathways to a happy life.” But she ended up focusing on other concerns instead. One problem, I think, is that her sources were comprised overwhelmingly of people who were not ever going to offer an affirming perspective on single life.

Perhaps she relied on what those people told her and did not read the relevant original sources. These claims that she made, for example, are somewhere between misleading and just plain wrong:

“Not having a partner – sexual or romantic – can be both a cause and effect of discontent. Moreover, as American social institutions have withered, having a life partner has become a stronger predictor than ever of well-being.”

No, getting married does not improve people’s or

You would think, from reading those claims, that people who marry become happier and healthier. But by 2012, there were already 18 studies that followed the same people over time, as they went from being single to getting married. They did not become happier than they were when they were single, except sometimes for a brief “honeymoon effect” early on. The most recent and most sophisticated studies show that people who marry do not become healthier, either, and depending on the measure, sometimes become less healthy.

What about Julian’s claim about the growing importance, over time, of having a life partner? If she were right about that, then should be linked to greater well-being for younger people than for older ones. A 2017 study by Dmitri Tumin examined the links between marriage and health for people born in the decades starting in 1955, 1965, and 1975. Getting married did not mean getting healthier for the men or the women in any of the three cohorts.

Tumin looked at his data in all sorts of ways, but only found one hint that getting married was good for health: Among the oldest women (those born between 1955 and 1964), those who married for the first time and stayed married for at least 10 years become slightly healthier than when they were single. But for the comparable women in the middle group (born between 1965 and 1974), there were no health benefits whatsoever. And for the youngest group (born between 1975 and 1984), there was a slight, though statistically insignificant, deterioration in their health after marrying. That’s just the opposite of what Julian claimed.

Frequency of sex is declining most for married people, not singles

Perhaps the most relevant finding is about the rate of sex, over time, among single and married people. Analyses of survey data from 1989 through 2014 showed that Americans today are having less sex. More importantly, as I noted in my discussion of the results of that study:

“The decline in sexual frequency was not the same for everyone. The decrease in having sex was especially steep for people who were married or divorced and much less so (if at all) for lifelong single people.”

Maybe instead of spending 15 printed magazine pages explaining the decreasing frequency of sex among young adults, most of whom are single, Julian should have instead focused more of her on married people. Why is it that their rates of sex are decreasing the most?

7. (My suggestion, not The Atlantic’s) The Rise of Individualism Means That People Have More Opportunities to Live the Lives They Want, Not the Ones Dictated by Norms or Pressures

The first sentence of “The Sex Recession” was, “These should be boom times for sex.” Continuing, Kate Julian added:

“The share of Americans who say sex between unmarried adults is “not at all wrong” is at an all-time high. New cases of HIV are at an all-time low. Most women can – at last – get birth control for free, and the morning-after pill without a prescription. [With regard to practices such as polyamory and anal sex]...our culture has never been more tolerant of sex in just about every permutation.”

And yet, the frequency with which young people are having sex is declining. So is the rate at which married people are having sex.

Perhaps one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology is, what is human ? What are humans really like? It would be impossible to remove every social pressure, every norm, every obligation, and just see how people act. But as more and more constraints get lifted, such as the ones Julian described, we can edge a little closer to seeing what humans would do if left to their own devices.

“Our for sex is supposed to be primal,” Julian noted, and yet people often “pick messing around online over actual messing around.” Maybe, she suggests, “the human sex drive is more fragile than we thought.” Also consistent with that interpretation is the growing recognition of asexuality as a sexual orientation and not a sexual dysfunction.

Julian quotes Emily Nagoski, author of Come as You Are, who has an apt answer to all the talk about how fundamental sex is:

====== 37 ========

YOU ARE (NOT) RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWING EVERYTHING

I was catching up with my friend Helen at a coffee shop in Chicago. Beautiful and , Helen is the kind of person you take one look at and you just know she has it all together. She tells me she has never struggled with at any point in her life. She was good at academics. She felt good about how she looked. She was self-assured socially and in her .

Then she became a mother.

“My confidence was destroyed. That was when I first felt incompetent,” Helen told me. “I had always felt competent at work and in my life, and that made me feel confident. It took me about three years to realize what was going on as a mother. I didn’t feel confident about my choices, I didn’t feel confident about my plans.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Well, I would ask myself, ‘Is this going to result in the outcome I’m looking for?’ And there’s no manual for that.”

“So what outcome are you looking for?”

“I want a successful child, right? I want a happy kid, and I want a successful kid. I didn’t know if I was making all the right choices. I actually feel like we parent in the age of a ton of research. So you have no excuse either. You can't fly blind. If you're flying blind, It’s because you're not doing your job. You're not reading and you're not doing your job.”

Source: Rawpixel on Unsplash

“Wow, that is a big job. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I research. Research helps us understand and those insights can really help. But, somehow, the way you talk about research feels like a terrible burden.”

“Exactly,” Helen went on, “I almost feel like the preponderance of literature out there actually makes it worse, because I feel responsible to know the answer. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a one year old. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a three year old. I've always said ‘I wish I had a manual that would tell me how I should react in every situation.’ But in some ways, we almost have that and that's what's killing us. I know what I should be doing and and I feel like I have to have the answer at every moment and I just don’t. I don’t.”

“Well that is quite a ShouldStorm right there!” I responded. We laughed and took a sip of our coffees. “So, I think you are saying that having the right, research-based answer in each specific situation is what would make you feel confident.”

“Yes,” she said emphatically, “The responsibility to all the literature out there is killing us. There is a world of literature out there and I know if I just look hard enough, I can find those answers.” Helen looked tired.

“That’s really interesting, because I am a pediatrician and have studied extensively, and I don’t have all of those answers.”

Source: Photo by Eliabe Costa on Unsplash

What if we did have a manual for every situation?

Helen had just described something I had identified through my work: one of the three untrue laws of the Shouldstorm. Untrue Law #1: We need to get it right, all the time. Often we don’t realize we believe this, but we act like we do. We criticize ourselves or feel burdened by worry if we don’t get it just right in each situation as parents. Even if you recognize that this is being too hard on ourselves, we still wish we could do it.

Now, for a moment, imagine this from your child’s perspective. Your parents tell you that they love you no matter what, and that it’s okay to make mistakes. But they are hard on themselves if they don’t get it just right all the time. Will you believe them? Will you be confused and wonder if they mean it about loving you? Won’t you think that really the rule is to get it just right all the time? Won’t it make you worry?

Helen wants a successful, happy child. I am certain that a successful child is not a child who has to know exactly what to do in each circumstance. That is a burdened and unhappy child.

What Research is For (Hint: It’s not Cyber-Chondria)

Research findings can be profoundly helpful to us, but that depends on how we view them. When research (which has advanced our ) becomes a burden, an obligation and a long list of shoulds, it robs is of the core of what makes us good parents. Well designed scientific research is a genuine good— if we understand it for what it is. Research is a tool; a knowledge base and a way of producing knowledge. Here’s the thing about tools: they are only as a good as the way we use them.

In September 2017, the BBC reported a growing problem: cyber-chondria. They reported that a of researchers had found that “Worrying excessively about , and going for unnecessary appointments and tests, is a growing problem - fueled by looking up symptoms on the internet.” This “health ” even produced physical symptoms like persistent chest pains and headaches. We doctors call that somatization, and we see anxiety producing physical symptoms quite often in pediatric practice.

"Dr Google is very informative, but he doesn't put things in the right proportion,” they observed. Not even the doctor’s reassurance relieved the patient’s worry. The researchers found that the answer was not more tests, or making their doctor read all the articles the worried patients were reading, but rather anxiety-reducing .

This shows up in parents too. Untrue Law of the ShouldStorm #1 convinces us as parents that We need to get it right, all the time. Part of that is feeling like we need to know. Some of us choose the research, some of us choose talking to our neighbors and doing what they do, some of us read online groups. And it creates a terrible unsettled feeling that something is wrong with us and our kids.

Let’s walk out of the ShouldStorm and free our kids, as we free ourselves, from the burden of having to know it all. Real confidence is about . Real success is about being safe in our own skins, not jumping out of them from anxiety. A truly happy child, a truly happy parent is able to connect and enjoy other people, undistracted by nagging fears. The more we try to get it just the way we should, the more rigid we become. The Shoulds cut us off from our kids, and that’s nobody’s idea of success.

Is it possible to use research to help our ?

How can we use the wonderful advances child development knowledge in a way that builds our confidence? We can start by watching our sources.

Websites: Watch out! I give my patients a list of reliable websites and steer them away from the ones that raise anxiety. In general, good advice equips and bad advice makes you anxious. When in doubt try the AAP for parent questions or the CDC for reliable medical science.

Social : Double watch out! Social media can connect you with supportive who care for you or share encouraging articles. Or it can introduce you to misinformation and criticism straight from the ShouldStorm. Is your heart rate going up and your breathing getting shallow? You probably just got shoulded on.

Your pediatrician: We love you and your kids. We took an oath and we meant it. We are committed to helping you do a great job. But try to go easy on us, because, as the BBC reports: "People now go to their GPs with a whole list of things they've looked up on the internet, and the poor GP, five minutes into the consultation, has four pages of reading to do.”

====== 38 ========

THE VERY HUMAN FUTURE OF TV IN AN AGE OF AI

Source: Secret Cinema

A couple of months ago, I was invited to speak at the Edinburgh TV Festival, as part of the “How to Win the Future” session with futurist Monika Bielskyte and blockchain-for-TV startup founder Ashley Turing, moderated by the Irish comedian and TV show host Dara O’Briain.

I spoke about the need for romanticism in business, which was less of a foreign concept than at other industry events in which I have taken part. Television is a romantic business: Inherently, it’s all about imagining other worlds and creating meaning through powerful storytelling; it’s about adventure, drama, extreme emotions, and human connections.

Disrupted by FAANGs and AI

The industry is nervous, though: Both public broadcasters and increasingly also pay-TV that the so-called FAANGs ( , Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) might be eating their lunch. In Edinburgh, just before our session, Labor Party Jeremy Corbyn even proposed a “journalism tax” for tech companies.

Further, (AI) has arisen as a threat to the very heart of TV—storytelling. While AI is already superior in process automation and data processing, it is now also invading inherently human turf: and emotions. We have already seen AI-composed music, fashion design, journalism, even paintings, poetry, movies, and more. While the results are not convincing yet, the impetus of data-driven “forced reductionism,” to use Joichi Ito’s term, will undoubtedly affect TV as well.

There are two scenarios: We can use AI to enhance human ingenuity and creative expression; or we can use it to end up in a dystopian, uber-algorithmic content farm where we essentially get to consume the data we produce.

Storytellers have seen this looming conflict all along, but their visions have mostly been lopsided toward the dystopian: War of the Worlds, The Matrix, Minority Report, Her, 1984, The Lobster, Ex Machina, Frankenstein, The Truman Show, Westworld, and Black Mirror, to mention just a few. As Monika Bielskyte pointed out in her talk, when we imagine the future, we tend to do it in dystopian terms. She illustrated her point by showing us the Google results for “utopian cities”: Even that term yielded a collection of images that look like Gotham.

There is never going to be a shortage of or outright cynicism. This is why in this day and age, storytellers have a right and a responsibility to inspire and provoke, not simply to depress their audiences so they turn away. In fact, what should give the TV networks hope is the very fact that they can give us hope and an impetus to make change.

This can start by creating positive narratives for AI, featuring an AI as a warm, friendly, trusted, and perhaps even funny character — a pursuit that novelist and Hollywood consultant Aditi Khorana recently facilitated in a workshop at the House of Beautiful Business conference.

Connecting us with the other

Moreover, TV makers should remember that at its best TV is a shared experience that fosters and belonging, forms and meaning, and strengthens citizenship and diversity. Television is still a powerful medium when it comes to showing us and connecting us with “the other,” and in our fragmented or divided societies this capacity is ever more important.

No wonder diversity and inclusion were critical topics in Edinburgh. The TV industry has powerful means to strengthen it: first of all, it can produce content that shows the full range of humanity, from the local pub in Brighton to a micro-enterprise in Nairobi, different cultures, ethnicities, generations, and identities, especially those that are fluid, non-binary, contradictory. Second, it can feature a diverse cast of characters and create more roles for these identities both on camera and off. “Representation starts both in front of and behind the camera,” Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina told Variety in a new interview.

Moreover, stories will become even more powerful in the future as we will have more unstructured time on our hands and may need more of both on the human condition and a device to escape from it. Storytellers can use AI and Artificial Emotional Intelligence (AEI) to augment, celebrate, and shape their stories.

Here are some ideas for TV makers:

Co-create stories with AI. AI can compile plot options based on AEI (scanning and analyzing human emotions) and/or the personal input and track record of humans, aggregated data, and predictive analytics. It can thus help crowdsource content and narratives and inspire human participation. AI could help personalize VR/AR and other immersive content: AEI, volumetric capture (as used by the award-winning Movie Vestige), AI avatars, or transmedia storytelling can make us feel more and create stronger emotions as well as perhaps even new emotions. We humans like to gather. Can the collective, social experience of TV be the ultimate differentiator and humanizer? What’s the Secret Cinema of TV? What does “TV-as-experience” look like? Aside from public viewing or gamification, are there business models such as virtual viewing communities or even co-viewing spaces similar to co-working spaces? Is there room for a “WeView”? Make it realer than real. In-the-Real-Life still beats AI, from Twitch to life-streaming (e.g. Ice Poseidon) to the ultimate gamification and reality TV of life. Stretch and overcome time: from time-shifting (DVR) to bingewatching (Netflix) to "holotime" (the past, present, and future of characters and viewers intertwined). What if TV networks co-monetized with viewers (based on their true data sovereignty)? What if they used AI and Blockchain technology to empower consumers to hold on to their personal data and consumption data and sell it to advertisers/networks, or give it away to non-profits to enhance social impact storytelling? Can there maybe be a token-based revenue share between networks, talent, and data-sovereign viewers? Is there a market for the Mozilla ("Internet for people, not profit") of TV (the anti-FAANG, so to speak; see Facebook’s patent to eavesdrop on TV consumption) with the result of more loyal audiences in the long run?

The only way to beat AI is to create stories that AI doesn’t know yet. If we do so, then TV can remind us of what it means to be human.

Only then will we look at the screen and still see ... us.

====== 39 ========

WHAT'S YOUR STORY? LIFE AS NARRATIVE

Source: unsplash

Whether or not we are truly inventors of our own lives, we certainly are inventors of the story of our lives. For some, this story is clear and in the forefront of their minds, becoming what drives them, what determines how they spend their time and energy. For many others the story is less clear, fragmented, or seemingly outside their awareness but often easily seen by others: Jake always casts himself as the victim, Sara the martyr, Carly always thinks things will work out for the best, while Henry is always braced for the worst.

Our story is shaped by the stories of others, those important to us who were not only role models but who also doled out their own particular philosophies of life. And of course, there are our own experiences and values. Our story becomes the lens through which we view life’s events, our with others; it determines what can expect of ourselves and life itself.

So, what’s your story? Here are some questions to help you define yours. As you answer them, think not in terms how you think things ought to be, but rather how you think and behave in everyday life.

How safe is the world, and other people?

This is about trust, about and . Bad things happen out of the blue; the other shoe always drops; others are out to screw you or scam you. You need to be cautious, alert, take what people say with a grain of salt, trust your family or your kind, but be wary of everyone else.

Or no, sure there are always some bad apples, even dangerous people, but most people are good, considerate, willing to help or at least turn the other cheek. Sure, bad things happen, but also a lot of good things happen as well if we just look for them. You don’t want to be naïve, but it’s okay to trust and believe that things will or can be worked out.

How do you treat others?

This obviously follows from the first. If the world is unsafe, if others can’t be fully trusted and you are wary, you hold back, you keep your distance. Or no, your stance is more aggressive than that: it’s every man / woman for his or her self. Or there’s a middle ground of politeness and courtesy to those you don’t know, if not necessarily a friendliness. Or your values, , and outlook cause you to reach out, always give the other guy the benefit of the doubt, and, if possible, a helping hand. The world is our family.

What’s your measure of or success?

For some it is measured by the attainment of in the bigger world — achievement in a , wealth, professional reputation. For others it may be a contentment that comes from the support and love of family, ; for it may be measured by the happiness of their children. For still others happiness is not measured by outcome but by doing — being creative or doing what gives you meaning, competing against your rivals and hopefully coming out on top, or some combination of all the above.

Think of what you strive or hope for, but also what brings you happiness in the everyday.

How do you reach your measure of happiness / success?

You put your head down, stay focused on the goal, and work hard. No, you follow your instincts, your imagination, those wisps of , your . Or you succeed by helping others succeed — encouraging and supporting them in their own quest for happiness, being the best role model you can be. Or no, you reach your goals by keeping an eye on your rivals and making the most of their weaknesses.

Why do bad things happen?

They just do; they help us see and appreciate the good; there is really no bad but only what we decide to call bad; it is God’s will, God’s test for us; they are pay-backs for our wrongs. We don’t know.

What is the purpose of life, your life?

See above.

Do you have major regrets, ? How has it shaped your view of life, your image of yourself?

Regrets and guilt can certainly teach us lessons, but often their wounding overshadows and outlasts the . Think of that poor secret service agent who 40 years later is still haunted and feeling responsible for the death of John Kennedy, and still unable to himself. Regrets and guilt can cause us to stay stuck in the past, feel that we are not entitled to happiness, drastically turn our view of life and ourselves upside down.

If you were to pick one word to describe the overall tone of your life what would it be?

As you work through these questions, is there a theme? If you had a pick a song to be the soundtrack of your life, what would that song be?

In one sentence, what advice would you most want to pass onto your children, your grandchildren?

So, what have you discovered? What is the story that you consciously or unconsciously tell yourself about the of relationships, the world? How has this story shaped your expectations and defined your purpose and about your life and life itself?

One final question: Do you want to keep your story, or do you want to change it?

====== 40 ========

SPRINTING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE

Your kids likely fell in the house for the Thanksgiving holiday yearning for a break—wanting to luxuriate in the comfort of their bed for long hours, ready to savor home cooked meals, and eager for opportunities to dash out and see their from home. Who can blame them? They have likely logged about twelve weeks of classes and stomached some gross stuff in the dining hall and had their fair share of social disappointments at college. Nevertheless, most students experience a mixture of feelings with the anticipation of returning to campus. They are generally eager to regain the independence they have cultivated and to hang out with college buddies with whom they are experimenting with their new sense of self. Yet, without a doubt they are stressed about what is to come in the next few weeks---final exams and projects and trying to make it to the finish line intact.

Source: Tim Gouw/ Unsplash

As a college professor for over twenty years, I can say with great certainty that this becomes a trying time for everyone. Students as well as faculty have gotten that glorious taste of a bit of rest and relaxation, more time with family and friends and a bit more indulgence. It is hard to regain the energy for the last push of the semester which is completely necessary to finish with greater success. The Thanksgiving holiday becomes a bit of a tease—-like those tiny bags of pretzels on an airplane when you are actually starving. So, when they head back to school, students can benefit by doing the following:

====== 41 ========

AN OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK AND THE FIRST MEMORIES OF LIFE

Source: Pixabay

In June, while attending a professional conference in Toronto, I decided to take a break and go for a swim at the hotel pool. As I was signing in and picking up a towel, the pool attendant warmly greeted me. She seemed genuinely interested in how I was doing and hoped that I was enjoying my stay at the hotel. We talked for a few minutes, and I learned that Julianna was 20 years old and studying to become a masseuse. While I was swimming, several other patrons entered the pool area, and I noticed that Julianna also graciously welcomed each person with a warm smile and brief conversation.

Julianna's behavior stood out to me because she seemed to make an effort to provide a few special moments for the individuals who showed up at the pool. I wanted to know more about her, and after my swim, I asked Julianna if she would be willing to share one of her first with me. She readily agreed, and I wrote down the following. "The first thing that I remember is playing outside at recess. There were dolls on the playground that seemed to revolve around. I played on the swings a lot, and I fell off the swing that day." I asked her, "What part do you remember most in the memory?" Julianna, responded, "How I felt when I was on the swing. It was one of the happiest moments of my life at that time."

After Julianna rendered her early recollection, I said that I would try to say something about its possible meaning. I began by stating, "You have an outlook on life, and you try to make the best out of situations and often find them to be special." She nodded in agreement, "This is how I am." I added, "At the same time, your and other people in your life tease you in a friendly way about your persistent level of optimism." Julianna laughed heartily: "This happens a lot."

I then asked Julianna one more question. "How are you so optimistic given all the ups and downs that we all face in life?" She related, "I am sentimental and it is natural for me. There are a lot of soulless people, and I haven't lost my soul." At that point, it started to get busy at the counter, and I thought that it would be best if we talked more at a later point. Julianna said that she was working the next day and looked forward to seeing me again.

When I came to the swimming pool early the next day, I was told that Julianna would not be on duty until the afternoon. Unfortunately, I had a plane to catch and soon had to leave the hotel. I did not get to see her again. In reflecting on Julianna's first memory, I wondered about her statement about "the soul" and its relationship to optimism and early recollections. Intuitively, I thought that it may have something to do with maintaining a childlike wonder and enjoying what life offers in the moment. At the same time, I needed to hear directly from Julianna on a face-to-face basis about her perception of life.

We all have an opportunity to learn more from people like Julianna. Perhaps it may be the service worker we see regularly who always seems to be in a good mood. There may be a neighbor, a friend, or a relative that stands out for maintaining a positive outlook on life. In my experience, often these individuals relate early recollections that are optimistic and seem to provide an emotionally uplifting quality. Follow-up conversations can be enlightening relating to how such persons sustain a sense of hopefulness despite encountering adversities in living. We need to hear more from those who have a "natural" optimistic outlook in their early memories and in their way of being.

====== 42 ========

I DIDN'T SAY THAT! YOU MUST BE IMAGINING IT

Source: Photo by rawpixel

"Are you wearing that dress to dinner?" My friend Amy can say that with just the right tone of voice. You know the one that lets you know she is in disbelief that you would actually do such a horrible thing. But what happens if you call her on it? "Amy, you don't like my dress?" She responds, "I didn't say that." She didn't say the words, true, but she indirectly implied that my choice of attire was completely unacceptable.

There's lots of ways that "You are so wrong but I didn't say that" communication is used. Questions about something that you know they already know is one example. "Have you bought your mother's birthday gift yet?" sounds innocent enough if you just look at or listen to the words. But with the right tone and context (your wife knows you haven't bought the gift) it's actually an implied criticism. The speaker's intentions are hidden in a way they can be denied. Instead of saying, "You're mother's birthday is tomorrow and once again you haven't bothered to get a gift," asking the question gets the same message across and the speaker can claim there's no criticism intended. The speaker claims innocence and avoids responsibility for their criticism. "All I did was ask a question. What's wrong with you today?"

Implied criticism can also be found in offers of help. "I can help you with baking," said when you bring banana bread to the office, clearly implies that your banana bread is a failure. A more subtle implied criticism would be, "I always find sour cream helps banana bread stay moist." If you confront the person, it's easy for her to say, "I was only trying to help." "There are art classes available at the community center," is a thumbs down review of your latest painting. But of course the person who offers that suggestion sees herself as trying to help. Even compliments can be put downs. When Gloria tells Jim, in front of Greg her husband, that Jim is the most thoughtful spouse she knows, she's also saying that her husband is not as thoughtful. But if Greg comments, Gloria can say, "It wasn't about you, can't I compliment Jim?"

Implied criticism has advantages to the speakers. They say what they think in an indirect way, usually something critical, and at the same time can deny they intended to give the message that you heard. It's not their fault you're upset--you're over reacting or hearing something they didn't say.

How do you cope with implied criticism? If the individual regularly criticizes you in this way, you'll probably pull back and start to avoid the person. You'll lose trust because they aren't being honest about what they are communicating. For some , you may prefer to do this. At the same time, it's possible the individual isn't aware of how his communication is received and truly sees himself as trying to help. If the relationship is one you want to keep, then asking directly may be the best way to save a relationship that is important to you. "Are you saying that you don't like my banana bread?" "No, not at all, I was just giving a suggestion." "Okay, just checking because it wasn't clear." If you regularly ask the other person to clarify his meaning, you'll probably see a change. But even if you don't, you won't be as frustrated.

====== 43 ========

SAY GOODBYE: IT'S TURKEY DROP TIME

Cold weather and the holiday season are upon us, and apparently, so too are the tough relationship decisions. Should you stay or should you go? Now, it seems, is peak decision time.

Yes, we're entering prime break-up season. College students everywhere are heading home for Thanksgiving and returning to school, single. And is it only college students? Probably not. The winter and its many romantic holidays (e.g., Christmas, New Year's Eve, Valentine's Day) are on the horizon, making now a good time for unhappy people to make a change.

The Turkey Drop

The Turkey Drop is the catchy phrase that aptly captures the spike in romantic break-ups that occurs annually in late fall. Data from McCandless and Byron, who examined changes in status, corroborate the Turkey Drop. A dramatic rise in romantic break-ups seems to occur during the few weeks leading up to the Christmas holiday.1

On one hand, it seems rather heartless: initiating a break-up so close to the holidays. However, around Thanksgiving may be the first chance that freshmen have to make the break in person, rather than over text, the phone, or Skype. By late-November, the challenges that come with long-distance may have taken their toll, and new social circles may make the prospect of single-life appealing. Relationships that once felt like forever relationships, now might feel like they belonged to younger, different people.

Holiday Pressure

The Turkey Drop may also extend beyond the college years: people unhappy in their relationships might be motivated to end their relationships before the hoopla of the holiday begins. This would avoid holiday gift giving pressure, mandatory New Year's eve plans, and Valentine's Day expectations that might come with a continued relationship.

Noteworthy too is the spike in engagements that occur around the holiday season. According to Statista, nearly 20% of proposals occur in December. If a relationship isn't headed towards marriage, perhaps mid-fall is a reasonable time to end a relationship and avoid the potential pressure of engagement season.

Divorces Aren't Tied to the Turkey Drop

If you're married, your relationship is probably safe from the dreaded Turkey Drop. Despite the seasonal spike in break-ups right around Thanksgiving among couples, the story looks different for married couples. Researchers out of the University of Washington analyzed divorce filings over a fifteen year period, and discovered that a spike in filings tends to occur during March and August.

Why might divorces peak during March and August? Rather than succumbing to the Turkey Drop, the researchers speculated that couples who are already in a committed partnership may view the holidays with hope. Married couples might imagine the possibility of a return to happier times, a stitching back together existing open wounds, or the opportunity for gestures that will change the current direction of a struggling relationship. Come March, after the winter and holidays fail to meet expectations, couples may be in a position to take the final step.

The same story applies to August, but this time the focus is on family vacations. The researchers hypothesize that couples in struggling marriages might put their hope in a wonderful family summer vacation, and when it does not meet their expectations, they may make the decision to formally end their marriages.

1. The other break-up season? Late February/early March: a spring-cleaning of sorts that appears to occur right before most colleges have their spring breaks.

====== 44 ========

IS #THANKSGAYVING IN YOUR NEWS FEED?

Did you notice any posts on your newsfeed this week about ‘Gaysgiving’ ‘Friendsgiving’ or 'ThanksGAYving'? Holidays of any kind are a time when families get together, share food, fight, makeup, and generally just do what families do. For many in the LGBTQ community, however, holidays can be a difficult time of the year.

Source: Pexels.

Often they may not be welcome at their family gatherings, or, if they are, they may only be welcome so long as they don’t bring their partner, or don’t do anything to ‘out’ themselves. This puts many people in a difficult position. How do you choose between the of your family traditions and the desire to include your partner in new traditions? Luckily, queers are nothing if not and this resiliency shows up every year during the holidays when groups of queer get together to re-invent family holiday gatherings and to make sure that the magic of the holidays isn’t lost, even if a connection to one's family of origin has been. While today we may see photos of these friendly gatherings with catchy hashtags like #GaysGiving #ThanksGAYving or #FriendsGiving, the tradition extends back beyond the birth of the hashtag and is commonly referred to as having a Chosen Family.

The term is a bit of a euphemism. It shouldn’t be interpreted as meaning that a young LGBTQ person goes out and finds themselves a new mom and dad and some queer siblings. It just means that the friends they do make within the LGBTQ community often play a more important role in their lives than an average friend might for a non-LGBTQ person. When something bad happens, these would be the people you turn to first and the people who will come to your aide when needed. Chosen Families are borne out of necessity, not a choice. Most individuals would choose to have their own family fill these important roles rather than having to turn to others. However, when they do turn to others, it is a sign of the resiliency that exists among LGBTQ individuals that they are able to build such lasting and supportive bonds without the underpinnings of a biological connection.

One needs to look no further than the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic to see the role that chosen families played in the lives (and deaths) of LGBTQ individuals, particularly women and gay and bisexual men. Biological family members abandoned their sons when they found out they were HIV positive (which was often the same time that they found out that their sons were gay). Friends, lovers, ex-lovers, and even strangers from within the LGBTQ community stepped up to fill the roles that are traditionally filled by family members. They managed each other’s medical appointments, ensured that those in the hospital or hospice had visitors, that they had help getting their affairs in order, and ultimately, it was these chosen family members who planned and attended the funerals. Those who survived came out the other side of the epidemic having lost countless numbers of their ‘chosen family’ but also with an intense of the necessity of chosen family. Thus, today, we still see many groups of LGBTQ friends spending the holidays together. Even as families have become more accepting of their LGBTQ members, chosen families continue to hold a special place in the hearts of LGBTQ folk, and thus the #GaysGiving dinners continue.

One of the reasons that researchers have theorized that chosen families are so important for LGBTQ folk is because they provide a shared level of experience that often cannot be found in an LGBTQ individual’s family of origin. Unless you grew up with LGBTQ or other close family members, no matter how accepting your family is, they are still unlikely to truly be able to empathize and understand your experiences as an LGBTQ person in a world that remains heterosexist, and sometimes outright homophobic. This means that LGBTQ youth often lack a family member who can tell them what it is like to come out, or what it will be like to be bullied and harassed based on their sexual or . Thus, there’s a greater drive to fill that role and to find other LGBTQ companions who can serve as mentors or provide advice or comfort in the face of daily challenges.

Source: pexels.

Ironically, one of the barriers to cultivating a chosen family today is the growing acceptance of LGBTQ people in society. Friends and family are far less likely to outright reject LGBTQ people, making that overwhelming necessity of finding a chosen family much less salient. As a result, many may just go about their lives without developing close bonds with other LGBTQ individuals, at least not to the extent that has been seen in past generations. At the same time, many still see the benefits of a closely-knit group of LGBTQ-identified friends, so only time will tell whether #GaysGiving will remain a tradition in the LGBTQ community or whether it will fade into something the elder-queers remember fondly, but with that kind of nostalgia that appreciates the past while simultaneously celebrating the social advances that may one day render LGBTQ chosen families unnecessary.

====== 45 ========

TECHNOLOGICAL “ADVANCES” AND THE EROSION OF SOCIETY

Source: FunkyFocus / Pixabay

We tend to see novel technologies as true “advances.” This makes sense, as that’s sort of a defining feature of technology. The wheel allowed our ancestors to move large items across great distances. Controlled fire allowed our ancestors to prepare food that could be digested relatively quickly. And rocket technologies ultimately allowed us to put a man on the moon. Sure, in many ways, technology goes hand-in-hand with progress.

The evolutionary perspective on the human condition provides important perspective on the of technology. In short, the evolutionary perspective (see my brief textbook, Evolutionary Psychology 101) suggests that when thinking about any human problem, it’s useful to consider the fact that the human mind evolved not under modern conditions, but, rather, under ancestral conditions that characterized the lion’s share of human evolution.

An important facet of this thinking pertains to the fact that agriculture and “civilization” are relatively recent, having only been developed in the past 10,000 years. Prior to this point, all human beings lived in small nomadic bands. They only ate natural foods. They necessarily exercised a lot. And their lives were, of course, without iPhones and the internet. Our evolved psychology was shaped to match those pre-agrarian conditions.

As is true with any organism, when humans experience dramatic cases of “evolutionary mismatch” (see Giphart & Van Vugt, 2018), we often run into problems. For the same reason that a palm tree will not do well in my front yard in upstate New York, humans often don’t do well in modern conditions─the conditions don’t match the conditions that the organism evolved to experience. Palm trees evolved adaptations to match relatively warm climates. Humans evolved adaptations to match small-scale societies where nature, natural foods, and exercise were abundant parts of the day-to-day experience.

From the evolutionary perspective, then, any new technology should be considered in terms of this bigger-picture evolutionary context. It is highly plausible that some technology may only provide short-term benefits to individuals (because it makes us feel good) while, inadvertently, having long-term adverse consequences (such as leading to long-term social or physical problems). We need to be wary of this kind of situation, as businesses are in it for profit, and that goes along with creating products that have short-term gain.

Modern Technologies as Supernormal Stimuli

From an evolutionary perspective, a “supernormal stimulus” is an exaggerated version of some stimulus that an organism evolved to respond to because such a response had adaptive value during the evolutionary history of that organism. A famous example comes from renowned behavioral scientist, Niko Tinbergen (1953) who studied the tendency for male stickleback fish to show an aggressive response to the red coloration of other male stickleback fishes. Tinbergen created supernormal versions of the red stimulus, simply creating fake fish that had larger and more saturated red sections on their exterior. Tinbergen found essentially that the fish showed a “the more red the more behavior” effect. That is, the supernormal stimuli with the higher proportion of red led to more consistent and stronger aggressive responses.

The lesson is this: Evolved behavioral responses can be hijacked by technology. If the fish evolved to attack “red,” then anyone can make a “super-red” stimulus that leads to an even strong behavioral response.

It turns out that humans are, actually, very similar to male stickleback fish in this broader regard. Technologies that hijack our evolved tendencies are all around you right now. The food industry has figured out the flavors that our ancestors evolved to like and has exaggerated them in tasty treats. The computer gaming industry has figured out what kinds of experiences activate our ’s pleasure centers and has provided supernormal stimuli that represent extreme versions of these stimuli. These things feel good in the moment because that’s exactly how these technologies work: They exploit our evolved psychology─not for our own long-term benefit, but, rather, for corporate profit. McDonald’s really doesn’t care if their milkshakes are contributing significantly to the modern crisis in the United States. They care about their bottom line.

Below are five examples of modern technologies that might be thought of from this evolutionary perspective. Several of these technologies hijack our evolved psychology, for the benefit of corporate profit. Often to the detriment of our own long-term health.

Five Technological “Advances” that May Be Driving Us Down a Bad Path

1. Processed food

Recent research on the proportion of processed foods eaten by Americans has led to outrageous conclusions (see Guitar, 2017). More than 60% of the food that we eat is processed. This statistic is hugely out of whack with the fact that before the advent of agriculture, during the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, all food that was eaten was natural by definition. Under ancestral conditions in the African savanna, where we can all trace our ancestors, drought and famine were common. Under such conditions, preferences for foods that are high in fat and sugar were adaptive, so that ancestral humans could get some fat on their bones to try to survive through the next famine. Today, those same food preferences, which have not had time to evolve out of us, often prove fatal, leading to such adverse health outcomes as Type-II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

2.

As is true with any sexually reproducing species, humans evolved a variety of mating-relevant adaptations including various preferences in mates (see Geher & Kaufman, 2013). Pornography provides a clear example of supernormal stimuli. Men evolved to be attracted to certain qualities in the female body because such led to increases in sexual that ultimately facilitated reproductive success. The porn industry takes these stimuli and ramps them up a notch. Or 100.

While the topic of whether pornography is truly harmful for people or for society is in the midst of hot academic debate, several published studies have found that is a real in terms of our brain’s physiology (see Banca et al., 2016). Further, pornography use seems to be associated with adverse relationship outcomes such as (with those showing higher porn use being more likely to have relationships that end in divorce; Perry & Davis, 2017). From a supernormal stimulus perspective, these outcomes are not surprising.

3. Video Games

Video games represent supernormal stimuli sine qua non. Everything about them takes some facet of our evolved psychology and gives us an overdose of it. We evolved to be task-oriented, because people who were task-oriented got stuff done and were relatively likely to survive and ultimately reproduce as a result. If you were around in the 1980s like I was, you know that Pac Man and Asteroids were all about completing the task. One more game! One more level! I know I can get to the next level, I just know it!

Modern video games such as Fortnite, are, of course, amped up compared to old Pac Man. They often include a social component. They include high risk. They include human coalitions. They sometimes have sexy characters. They have elements that focus on social status. And so forth. Why are our kids so darned addicted to these stupid video games? Because these videogames are hijacking their evolved psychological adaptations.

4. iPhones

Consider yourself lucky if you are truly not addicted to your smartphone. In a recent CNN poll of teens in the US, more than 50% admitted to being addicted to their phones. And we all well know that the other 50% were ! I have to say that I am checking my phone way more than I wish I were these days. These things are so addictive! And tells us why.

As is the case with video games, smartphones have so many things that we evolved to focus on right at our fingertips. 24/7. ? Relationships? Your social status? Your family? Things that make you happy? Things that make you excited? Things that make you surprised? Risky behaviors? We have special evolved psychology regarding all these things. And with smartphones, exaggerated information on all of these is now more accessible than.

5. Your couch

How many hours a week do you think an average American spends sitting on the couch? Many of us have more than one couch in the house. Hey, we try to make our houses comfortable. The word “home,” in fact, is all about the comfort that we experience in our houses. I love my house, so I’m not one to judge. But, under ancestral conditions, before the advent of agriculture and “civilization,” people were not sitting around on their couches. Not by any means!

For the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, exercise was not a choice. Sitting around on the couch all day watching an Impractical Jokers marathon, drinking Pepsi and Sam Adams, and eating chips was not a possibility. Estimates of ancestral exercise patterns, in fact, suggest that traveling more than 20 miles in a day was a regular occurrence (see Platek et al., 2011). Further, as is true with all animals, we evolved to take advantage of opportunities to not expend energy. Under ancestral conditions, chilling out whenever possible and saving up energy for future physical activity was a good idea. In today’s world, where we can easily go a full day that includes walking less than two miles and sitting on comfortable chairs and couches for 10 or so hours, this tendency to rest up whenever the opportunity presents itself is incredibly unhealthy. We’ve made our environments too comfortable! And all the technologies that we have to increase our comfort, including electronic garage doors so that we don’t have to get of our cars, dog doors so that we don’t have to get up to walk the dog, reclining chairs, Netflix, couches that cost thousands of dollars, etc., work against that fact that our bodies evolved to move a lot every single day.

Bottom Line

Beware of technology. Technological “advances” often present some short-term benefit with an unspecified (and often invisible) long-term cost. Companies that make technology are motivated to get people to buy their stuff. They are not too motivated to worry much about potential long-term adverse consequences associated with their products.

The evolutionary framework changes the playing field when it comes to thinking about technology. We need to think about the long-term human consequences of technology. And we also need to ask the question of what evolved psychological adaptation the technology is tapping into. Further, we need to ask whether the technology is somehow exploiting our evolved psychology for corporate gain. There’s something to think about when you go out holiday shopping.

====== 46 ========

FORGET CO-PARENTING WITH A NARCISSIST, ROUND 3

Source: Caroline Hernandez/unsplash

As the writer of Forget Co-Parenting With a Narcissist: Do This Instead, and its Round 2 counterpart, I spend a good amount of time helping weary co-parents navigate high-conflict and contentious plans. As awful as it is to deal with the toxic atmosphere of family court, it is possible to implement emotionally stable habits so you can distance yourself from the drama.

Here are 10 ways to do just that.

1. Emotionally stable co-parents accept that their ex is not going to change and they stop wishing that this person one day wakes up and sees the impact of their frivolous, mean-spirited and sociopathic behaviors. Instead, emotionally stable co-parents recognize they chose a partner who may fit the diagnostic criteria for , borderline disorder or . They educate themselves on these mental conditions to better understand the characterological manifestations.

2. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t complain about their ex. This is not to say they don’t have reason to feel outrage or experience random thoughts of skipping town with the kids, but they accept the game for what it is. They recognize that as adults, we are willing participants in . When we complain, other people may be wondering, ‘Hmmm…didn’t you see the signs when you where ?’ As a psychotherapist, I assure you, there are always signs. I can also confirm, no kid on the couch ever says, “Thank goodness for all the badmouthing my parents did in front of me—that really helped me move forward and learn the basics of healthy relationships.”

3. Emotionally stable co-parents use wisely. They recognize they need to heal first in order to help their kids recover. They grow in their ability to guide their children once they’ve processed why they chose their co-parent in the first place. As my clinical supervisor used to say, “All issues with children are issues in the parent. The connection is not always linear.”

4. Emotionally stable co-parents do not waste time on co-parenting forums because most are not helpful, and more often, used as a platform for emotional vomiting and out-catastrophizing other people’s experiences. Rather, they spend their time and energy on hiring professionals. Emotionally stable co-parents do not write dramatic, autobiographical email or post like-minded commentary, nor do they leave lengthy phone messages expecting free advice. They respect the ethical and legal restrictions of mental health and legal professionals for responding to non-clients.

5. Emotionally stable co-parents recognize that the job of a single parent is a lot easier when kids are held accountable for their behaviors. All children need discipline and guidance. Some may argue that children of divorce need more stability, consistency and accountability due to the erratic and conflicting practices from the other side.

6. Emotionally stable co-parents speak to their kids about divorce in an honest and age-appropriate manner. They recognize that while they may not have the answer to “Why does daddy’s new friend over his house?,” they refrain from angry knee-jerk reactions. When stumped, they reach for books such as Growing Up With Divorce by Neil Kalter, or Divorce Poison by Richard Warshak.

7. Emotionally stable parents accept the tall order known as “bad parenting.” This may look like feeding him donuts and chocolate milk for breakfast, to off all her hair one weekend just because, or criticizing you for grounding him when he told the football coach to "Go to hell." Because what’s the alternative? Spend $300 in attorney fees to hear that your issue isn’t ‘bad enough’ to file a motion in court?

8. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t blame judges, attorneys, mediators, and therapists for their situation. This is not to say the family court system isn’t largely broken, and in need of reform. But it is what it is, and none of its players are directly at fault when your ex doesn’t comply with the court order. Mentally stable co-parents view court as a place to be avoided for all non-emergency matters.

9. Emotionally stable co-parents teach their kids to be independent thinkers by inspiring them to question events that don’t make sense and to listen to their gut. If their co-parent tells them not to trust someone, they are encouraged to look for an alternative explanation.

10. Emotionally stable co-parents rise above the chaos and focus on nurturing their child’s mental and emotional well-being. They go to therapy, work their calm plan, relaxation routine and mindfulness practices daily so they can parent with love, warmth, safety and presence.

Even when the other parent does the opposite.

To learn more about co-parenting strategies, click here for information about my online course, Co-Parenting Without Chaos.

Copyright 2018 Linda Esposito, LCSW. All Rights Reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the author.

====== 47 ========

IT'S HOW YOU DO IT THAT MATTERS FOR RELATIONAL SATISFACTION

Nearly everyone understands the importance of being grateful. And during this time of year there tends to be a marked emphasis on the positive impact that has on our lives. This focus is especially powerful since being grateful for our blessings – like our , family, and significant other or spouse – is associated with greater individual well-being.

And gratitude may be one of the most important positive emotions to cultivate for thriving as well, according to research.

However, feeling grateful alone is not enough for relational satisfaction. It’s acting upon these feelings that matter. We need to express our gratitude to our partner. After all, our partner is not a mind reader. We need to tell them how we feel about them.

Sadly, many people do not feel that their partners appreciate them. Many relationships fall apart not due to one big problem but rather a lot of little things that add up over time. Perhaps repeatedly feeling overlooked, unacknowledged, or taken advantage of, for example.

We need to make it a habit to express our appreciation to our partner.

In our book, Happy Together: Using the Science of to Build Love That Lasts, we recount the story of “Tonya”and “Marco,” whose collapsed after twenty-plus years of marriage. As we mentioned in a previous post, Tonya did not feel appreciated by Marco. She could only recall two times in their entire marriage where Marco expressed his appreciation for her. She said he rarely expressed his gratitude to her which caused her to wither over the years. Eventually, she left, to the utter surprise of Marco who didn’t understand what he did. It’s actually what he didn’t do that she felt caused their relationship to unravel.

We can’t overemphasize the importance of expressing gratitude to our loved ones for relational satisfaction and longevity. In fact, expressing gratitude has been found to be important for both partners, the giver and the receiver. In one study, couples who expressed gratitude well to one another were as half as likely to break up six months later. Gratitude was found to serve as an emotional glue in that it makes a partner feel “cared for, understood, and validated.”

Source: Pexels

However, for optimal relationship satisfaction, it’s not just if you do it, but how you do it that matters, according to research.

Gratitude can serve as a relational booster shot if the gratitude is expressed well, in that it is “other” focused, rather than “self” focused. In other words, focusing on praising your partner and his or her qualities and actions rather than the benefit to yourself.

For example, if your partner has been especially helpful around the house lately or roasted and carved the holiday turkey, you might automatically react by saying, “Thank you. You really helped me out.” Or “Yummy! You know how much I love turkey.”

While these remarks aren’t bad, of course – after all, you are acknowledging your partner and could be worse off by not saying anything at all – you could do much better by shifting the focus from yourself to your partner. Instead, try responding with something like:

"Thank you. I really appreciate your thoughtfulness in tidying up our home. It’s this thoughtfulness that I see in you time and time again that makes you such a special person.”

“I really appreciate your to detail and the care you took in making the turkey. Your patience is remarkable! Whether working with your students or interacting with our son, these qualities are such a beautiful part of who you are.”

So think of a recent time you thanked a loved one. Reflect for a moment on your expression of gratitude. Next, ask yourself these two questions:

Did you focus on the other person, or the self?

If you focused on the self, how could you reframe that?

Giving good gratitude is a skill that can be learned. Expressing it well and practicing it regularly will help boost your individual and relational .

====== 48 ========

SUZIE PILEGGI PAWELSKI, MAPP AND JAMES PAWELSKI, PH.D.

Suzann (“Suzie”) Pileggi Pawelski, MAPP, is a freelance writer and well-being consultant specializing in the science of happiness and its effects on relationships and health. Her 2010 Scientific American Mind cover story, “The Happy Couple” was the catalyst for the book Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love that Lasts that she co-wrote with her husband, James. Together, they give Romance and Research (TM) workshops around the world. She is a contributing editor for Live Happy and writes the “Science of Well-being” column for the national magazine. As a columnist for the Newsletter of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), she profiled many of the field’s leading scientists and featured their groundbreaking research in the publication. Previously, she directed award-winning media relations campaigns in New York City for Fortune 500 clients. Earlier in her career, she worked in publicity at Radio City Music Hall and as an associate producer for The Joan Rivers Show, where she featured leading health and medical authors on the Emmy Award-winning program. She has a Master of Applied Positive Psychology degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

James Pawelski, Ph.D., is the Director of Education and a Senior Scholar in the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, where he co-founded the Master of Applied Positive Psychology Program with Martin Seligman. He is a recipient of Penn’s Liberal and Professional Studies Award for Distinguished Teaching in Professional Graduate Programs. The Founding Executive Director of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), and a member of the Advisory Board of the International Positive Education Network (IPEN), he is currently leading a three-year, multi-million-dollar grant investigating connections between the science of well-being and the arts and humanities. Having earned a Ph.D. in philosophy, he is the author of The Dynamic Individualism of William James, and co-editor of The Eudaimonic Turn: Well-Being in Literary Studies and On Human Flourishing: A Poetry Anthology. An international keynote speaker, he has presented in more than 20 countries on six continents, including Romance and Research (TM) workshops with his wife, Suzie. He is a recipient of the Practice Excellence Award from the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the Humanitarian Innovation Award for the Humanities, Arts, and Culture from the Humanities Innovation Forum at the United Nations. He is frequently featured in the media, including the New York Times, U.S. News and World Report, Philadelphia Inquirer, and The Today Show.

====== 49 ========

HOW MUCH SLEEP DO SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN NEED?

Source: Pixabay Free Images

The question of how much children need is one that is not easy to answer. Professional organizations have recommended guidelines which include ranges for different age groups. For example, the National Sleep Foundation suggests that school-age children 6-to-13 years old should get 9-to-11 hours of sleep each night. But the basis for establishing those guidelines is unclear. It is a more difficult question to answer than one might expect, and it is similar to asking how much exercise children need or what nutritional needs they have. Complicating the question is that individual differences exist for children at any one age.

Children of all ages, but especially adolescents, seem to be getting less sleep than they need. The movement to have middle and high school start times later is based on the assumption that doing so will afford adolescents the opportunity to get more morning sleep, and also that they will actually get more sleep by not staying up even later at night.

Most school districts where later start times for teens have been considered or implemented, have set earlier start times for elementary school children, with the assumption that their sleep needs will not be compromised. With only a few exceptions, that assumption has received very little study.

One method for estimating how much sleep a child needs is to observe how much they sleep when there are no or few constraints on when they go to bed and wake up. Since the school week schedule dictates that wake times are around the same time each day, are responsible for making sure their children go to bed early enough to get sufficient sleep. But during school breaks, especially during summer months when most schools are not in session, bedtimes and wake times can be more flexible. These breaks create opportunities to determine how much sleep children might need.

A paper just published in the journal Sleep by a of researchers at the University of South Carolina reports a study that includes measurements of sleep during two school breaks – one of a week duration, and one of three weeks duration which were then compared to how much they slept when school was in session. Children (N=154) were between 5 and 9 years old (mean = 7). Sleep was measured objectively using Fitbits.

For both the one- and three-week breaks, children showed increased sleep time and later wake times. On a one-week break they slept 38 minutes more and woke up 35 minutes later than when school was in session. During the three-week break they slept 25 minutes more and woke up 46 minutes later. When school was in session, their sleep far less than even the lower end of the recommended range (7 hours, 18 minutes vs. 9 hours). They were getting more sleep during the one week break (8 hours, 12 minutes) and the three week break (7 hours, 48 minutes), but those durations were still short of 9 hours. Longer sleep times during breaks is a good estimate of how much sleep children of this age need. "Natural" wake times of 35-46 minutes later than when school is in session suggests that starting school an hour later — no earlier than 8:30 as is being recommended by professional organizations — is probably a good idea for all children, not just adolescents.

====== 50 ========

TWO LEADER BEHAVIORS THAT REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE

One of the most consistent research findings of the past century suggests that there are two types of leader behaviors that are associated with effective : Task-focused and relationship-focused behaviors.

Just after World War II leadership researchers from Ohio State University and the University of Michigan discovered two types of leader behaviors that were consistently related to effective leadership.

The first were task-focused behaviors. These are behaviors that put structure into the work setting – creating operating procedures, focusing on measuring outcomes, making important decisions, and the like.

The second category of effective leader behaviors focuses on the followers and the relationship between leaders and followers. These include showing concern for followers’ feelings and needs, showing appreciation, giving them a voice in , and bolstering their .

Research over the next 70 years has consistently shown that these two broad categories of leader behaviors are important. So, what is the implication for leaders and their effectiveness?

Leaders should do a self-assessment and note how often their behaviors focus primarily on the task and the incidence of their relationship-oriented behaviors. Research by Fred Fiedler and others suggests that leaders may prefer one over the other – becoming almost preoccupied with getting the task done, or alternatively, with building the leader-follower relationship. For example, if a leader’s self-assessment suggests that he or she is over-emphasizing task-oriented behaviors, then balance may be needed by making sure to also focus on the with members. Over-focusing on relationships can lead to a lack of structure with can reduce the team’s efficiency and output.

Sometimes, simple research results (and those that seem to be almost common-sense) are important because they give us insight into our patterns of behavior in the . The best leaders realize that they can always improve. They reflect on what they are doing well, and on their shortcomings and they strive to constantly get better.

Follow me at twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 51 ========

SEX HELPS INITIATE RELATIONSHIPS WITH POTENTIAL PARTNERS

Sexual desire evolved to serve as a powerful motivational force that brings potential romantic partners together initially and thereby helps to facilitate sexual intercourse and . As such, sexual acts may be devoid of affectional bonding, as in the case of one-night stands. And yet, sexual desire may play a major role not only in attracting potential partners to each other but also in encouraging the formation of an between them.

Nevertheless, thus far it has been unclear whether desire motivates merely reproductive acts, with attachment between partners developing independently, or whether desire directly contributes to the building of an emotional bond between newly acquainted partners. Indeed, although sexual urges and emotional attachments are not necessarily connected with each other, evolutionary and social processes may have rendered humans particularly likely to become romantically attached to partners to whom they are sexually attracted1.

Source: Hugh Douglas Hamilton/Wikimedia Commons

Research published recently in the Journal of Social and Personal 2 has provided support for the latter option. In four studies, my colleagues and I demonstrate that sexual desire elicits behaviors that can facilitate emotional bonding during face-to-face encounters with a new opposite- acquaintance.

In Study 1, we examined whether desire for a new acquaintance would be associated with enactment of non-verbal immediacy behaviors that indicate contact readiness (e.g., synchronization, close physical proximity, frequent eye contact). To do so, participants took part in a lip-sync performance in which they and an attractive opposite-sex confederate mimed together to pre-recorded music (without actually singing) while being videotaped. Participants then rated their desire for the confederate. Judges rated the extent to which participants enacted immediacy behaviors toward the confederates and were behaviorally synchronized with them. We found that participant's desire for the confederate was associated with coded immediacy behaviors toward the confederate as well as with synchronization as perceived by participants, confederates, and raters.

In Study 2, we sought to replicate the findings of Study 1 with a different methodology that requires more intimate coordination (slow-dance rather than lip-sync performance) and is thus more relevant to romantic contexts. We also wished to extend Study 1 by adding a measure of interest in future interactions with potential partners. For this purpose, participants slow-danced with an opposite-sex confederate and then rated their sexual desire for the confederate, the extent to which they were synchronized with each other, and their interest in seeing the confederate again. The results showed that participant's desire for the confederates was associated with being synchronized with them, which in turn, predicted greater interest in them.

Studies 3 and 4 were designed to establish a causal connection between activation of the sexual system and non-sexual behaviors (provision of responsiveness and help, respectively) that are not only strategically employed to initiate relationships with potential partners but also play a key role in supporting long-term bonding3.

In Study 3, participants were subliminally exposed to sexual stimuli (versus neutral stimuli). Specifically, participants were asked to indicate their food, clothing, and location preferences for a date by choosing one of two options from each of seven categories (e.g., color of clothes: black or blue; location: bar or restaurant). Before each pair of options, participants were exposed to either a sexual (an attractive naked, reclining man shown from the groin up for female participants; an attractive, naked, kneeling woman photographed from behind for male participants) or a neutral prime, which was presented subliminally.

Then, participants discussed several interpersonal dilemmas (e.g., “Are you for or against playing ‘hard to get’ at the start of a relationship?”) with an opposite-sex participant whom they did not know while being videotaped. Judges rated the extent to which participants engaged in behaviors that conveyed responsiveness and caring to the confederate during the interactions. The findings revealed that participants were more responsive to the other participant in the sexual condition than in the control condition.

In Study 4, we sought to activate the sexual system in a more ecologically valid manner, investigating how sexual stimuli in real-life settings (watching videos) affect engagement in other approach behavior (i.e., helping behaviors) that may facilitate relationship initiation more actively than the provision of responsiveness. In particular, participants watched either an erotic (but not pornographic) video or a neutral video. After watching the video, participants were led to believe that in the next 5 minutes they and another participant would complete a questionnaire assessing their verbal reasoning. The experimenter then introduced an attractive opposite-sex confederate to the participants, seated them next to each other, told both that they were allowed to speak with each other while completing the questionnaire, and left the room.

When the confederate ostensibly got to the third question, he or she turned to the participants and asked their help in solving that question, uttering, "I'm stuck with this question. Could you please help me in solving it?" Participants' helping behaviors toward the confederate were recorded, using the following measures: (a) the time elapsed until participants started providing help to the confederate; (b) the actual time spent helping to solve the needed question; both were measured using a stopwatch hidden in the confederates' pocket; and (c) the quality of the given help, as assessed by the confederate following this session. The findings indicated that participants were quicker to help as well as invested more time and effort in providing help to the confederate in the sexual priming condition than in the control condition.

Overall, our research demonstrates that even a nonconscious sexual stimulus can elicit verbal and non-verbal behaviors that not only convey contact readiness but also express caring about a partner's well-being. By doing so, our research suggests that when two strangers meet, sexual desire experienced by one or both of them may initiate a cascade of behaviors that signal their interest in further interaction as well as their willingness to invest in a potential relationship. Such behaviors help set the stage for deepening the emotional connection between them. To be sure, whereas intense desire may attract new partners to each other, the behaviors it engenders are those that support long-term bonding.

This post also appeared here.

====== 52 ========

7 SIGNS OF A PASSIVE-AGGRESSIVE NARCISSIST

Source: Edw/Shutterstock

“Whenever my husband feels he isn’t being catered to, he would make everything difficult, while saying there’s nothing’s wrong.” ―Anonymous

“My colleague’s favorite tactic when she doesn’t get her way is to take twice as long to get anything done.” ―Anonymous

“My partner deals with our relationship issues through avoidance, neglect, and blame.”―Anonymous

The Mayo Clinic research group defines as “a mental disorder in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance and a deep need for admiration. Those with narcissistic disorder believe that they're superior to others and have little regard for other people's feelings. But behind this mask of ultra- lies a fragile , vulnerable to the slightest criticism.”

can be defined as , hostility, and/or learned helplessness in disguise, expressed in covert ways to "even the score" and gain an underhanded advantage.

While many narcissists come across as openly grandiose and outwardly intrusive, some narcissists utilize passive-aggressive tactics as a primary way of fulfilling their selfish needs, or to exact “ ” onto those who fail to cater to their whims.

It’s important to note that not all passive-aggressive individuals are narcissistic. What characterizes the passive-aggressive narcissist is their barely disguised sense of superiority, conceit, and entitlement. They are inclined to become covertly hostile when they don’t get their way, no matter how unreasonable. If the world doesn’t revolve around them (like they think they deserve), they will devise many subversive schemes to make the lives of those around them miserable.

How do you know when you might be dealing with a passive-aggressive narcissist? Below are seven telltale signs, with references from my books, How to Successfully Handle Narcissists and How to Successfully Handle Passive-Aggressive People. When a passive-aggressive narcissist doesn’t get his or her way, he is likely to instigate one or more of the following offenses, while remaining unaware of (or unconcerned with) how their behavior impacts others.

1. Disguised Verbal Hostility

Examples: Negative . Negative orientation. Habitual criticism of ideas, conditions, and expectations. Addressing an adult like a child. Invalidation of others’ experiences and feelings.

Possible Intention(s): Putting others down to feel dominant and superior. Causing others to feel inadequate and insecure to relieve one’s own sense of deficiency. Seeking a false sense of importance by being persistently critical. Consciously or unconsciously spreading one’s own unhappiness (misery loves company). Competing for power and control in a relationship.

2. Disguised Hostile

Examples: Sarcasm. Veiled hostile joking — often followed by "just kidding." Repetitive teasing. Subtle “digs” at one’s appearance, , socio-cultural background, credentials, behavior, decisions, social relations, etc.

Possible Intention(s): Express hidden anger, disapproval, or rejection towards an individual. Disdain towards an individual for what she or he represents. Using humor as a weapon in an attempt to marginalize another's humanity, dignity, and credibility.

3. Disguised Relational Hostility

Examples: The silent treatment. The invisible treatment. Social exclusion. Neglect. Sullen resentment. Indirectly hurting something or someone of importance to the targeted person.

Possible Intention(s): Express anger or resentment. Covert Punishment. Purposely creating a negative and disconcerting . Putting the targeted recipient off balance. Attempting to create insecurity.

4. Blaming

“It’s your fault that I forgot because you didn’t remind me.” ―Anonymous

Examples: Blaming others for one’s own irresponsibility, negligence, or failures. Blaming others for one’s own unwillingness to follow reasonable rules, social norms, or professional conduct.

Possible Intention(s): Distortion and of the truth. Avoidance of responsibility. Manipulate facts of the issue. Distort perception for easier and control. -baiting. . Misdirection to take focus off of the real issue.

5. Stalling

Examples: . Forgetting. Stonewalling. Withholding resources or information. Unnecessary bureaucracy and red tape. Excuse making. Broken agreements. Lack of follow through.

Possible Intention(s): Avoiding responsibility, duty, and obligations. Maintaining power and control by imposing many hoops to jump through. Passive competitiveness making life more difficult for others. Purposely blocking others’ success. of others’ success.

6. Covert Resistance

Examples: Stubbornness. Rigidity. Inefficiency, complication, incompletion, or ruination of task.

Possible Intentions(s): Power struggle. Passive combativeness. “Victory” is gained from the frustrated efforts and negative emotions of the recipient.

7. Underhanded Sabotage

Examples: Purposely undermine tasks, projects, activities, deadlines or agreements. Causing harm or loss materially. Overspending. Wrecking positive chemistry interpersonally, socially or professionally. Deliberate disclosure of harmful information. Deliberate obstruction of communication and endeavors.

Possible Intention(s): Covertly express anger, hostility, and resentment towards an individual, group, or organization. Channeling unspoken gripe or unresolved past issues. Personal, social, or professional jealousy. Subtly administering punishment or revenge.

Can a passive-aggressive narcissist change for the better? Perhaps. But only if he or she is highly aware, and willing to go through the courageous process of self-discovery. For passive-aggressive narcissists no longer willing to play the charade at the cost of genuine and credibility, there are ways to liberate from falsehood, and progressively move toward one’s Higher Self. For those who live or work with passive-aggressive narcissists, perceptive awareness and communication are musts to establishing healthy and mutually-respectful relationships. See references below.

© 2018 by Preston C. Ni. All rights reserved worldwide. Copyright violation may subject the violator to legal prosecution.

====== 53 ========

6 SIGNS HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU

"He's just not that into you."

I know you hate this phrase. I hate it more. Mostly, because it's true-- even when we are living in complete denial about it. Sorry, but if he's not calling you, it's not because all of his fingers were chopped off in a freak text messaging accident or he's in a coma somewhere. It's because he doesn't like you or doesn't like you enough to call you.

You have to be aware that even though you may be enjoying an LSD-like love high, your new significant other may be feeling something entirely different.

Oftentimes, I get asked about red flags in and . From personal experience and those of so many ladies I know, I have compiled a few warning signals to watch out for and how to deal with them. As always, there are exceptions but I am never the exception, and probably, neither are you.

1. He talks about his ex frequently. It's fine to bring up the ex once in a while under very neutral contexts, e.g., "My ex has the kids this week." But talking incessantly about prior relationships is tacky and might also imply that there are still some unresolved issues lingering in his head, whether it's , resentment or doubt. This rule applies to you too. Do not mention your previous love life and its contents, including: pet names, restraining orders or penis size.

Relationship therapist Dr. Turndorf suggests, if he mentions the ex and it bothers you, speak up and say something: "The effective way of handling this is to ask him if he knows how he feels when he brings up the subject of his ex? Does he feel hurt? Does he feel angry?" If his problems persist, keep in mind that you don't have to.

In the beginning of a relationship, each party should ideally have a clean slate and be on their best behavior, instead of showcasing their baggage like a badge of honor.

2. He tells you he's not ready for a relationship. I can't believe how many times I've heard women dismiss this statement and continue pursuing unavailable men. These guys will flat out tell you that they don't want to commit to you, but here you are, baking them cookies, enjoying naked sleepovers and gushing to all your girlfriends about what a catch he is. Because, "once he sees how great you are,

he will surely commit.

If this is you, please find someone to slap you back into reality. The truth is-- he doesn't want a relationship (it's the same as not being ready for one), even with someone as delightful and wonderful as you. And you shouldn't waste your time trying to convince him otherwise, because his mind is already set. Bake cookies for someone who cares about you--like that friend who slaps you into back into reality (and not the one who tells you that he'll come around, eventually.)

I've been in this situation before, waiting it out like an idiot. Needless to say, I have yet to see a ring on it.

3. He wants to get into a relationship immediately. Refusing to commit to you is not a good thing, but neither is moving into a relationship at lightning speed. Relax, you aren't Benjamin Button-- you don't have five minutes to fall in love and have babies. If your man tells you he loves you or wants to commit to you during or shortly after the first date, something is up. (Unless of course, you do too, and it's love at first sight for both of you.)

I actually know a guy who asked a girl to be his girlfriend during the first date, then broke up with her two weeks later, because he realized that she was "boring." Well, duh. I'm surprised he even knew anything beyond her first name at that point. Relationships can only succeed when there is a foundation to base it upon, such as common interests and experiences. Just because you both order the Caesar salad, doesn't make you compatible.

Similarly, relationship expert and author Lynn Harris advises against premature "I love yous": "The first time you feel like saying it, count to ten, go home and say it to your cat." You don't want to mistake love for a really romantic evening or a great night in bed.

4. He still hasn't asked you out. This should be a given, but I can't tell you how many times I've heard people texting or g-chatting for months and months before any attempt at physical contact is made. If you're seeking mild or a virtual relationship, texting is fine-but if you want something more, then he needs to make a move in real life. If you're at a point where you don't want to wait anymore, stop waiting. You shouldn't have to force someone to ask you out.

5. He doesn't let you go near his phone. This is also a given, in my opinion. But I have firsthand witnessed relationships in which phones are private property, locked and guarded with military-like defense systems. If your partner has issues about letting you see his phone, then chances are, he's hiding something sketchy. The mere fact that he turns all Charlie Sheen on you the moment you go near it should be a big clue. I'm not saying that couples need to share passwords or answer each other's phones, but you shouldn't ever feel like he's keeping something important from you either. If you feel weird about something, tell him. Maybe he's got a great excuse, like he's in the CIA or running from the mob. It's way better than finding those naked pictures of his ex later on.

6. He doesn't give you butterflies. He may have a great , a nice apartment with hardwood floors, a humanitarian heart and killer abs, but if he doesn't make your heart all warm and fuzzy, he's not it.

Chemistry isn't instant-- sometimes, it can be discovered gradually, like in these situations. But, after a certain point, you will know if that spark is missing. And if that's the case, be gentle and kind. After all, wouldn't you want to be let down just as easy if someone just wasn't that into you?

Follow me on : ThisJenKim

Want to know when I write a new post? Sign up here.

====== 54 ========

SCHIZOPHRENIA AND HALLUCINATIONS

Source: Pixabay

I was sitting on a park bench on my former university campus on January 28, 2006 when my hallucinations began. I began to hear a chorus of children’s voices very far away. They told me I was a “homeless hoodlum” a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times, again and again in my mind. It was like a painful stimulus.

Then the voices changed, and complimented me on achieving a perfect score on my SAT college entrance exam. It is true that during high school I had scored high marks, but in reality, I had fallen short of perfect. They told me that I was fluent in Chinese, but in reality, I had only an elementary proficiency.

Then the voices began to confirm my delusions. They spoke about my future husband who they said was handsome, wealthy, powerful, and eagerly waiting to meet me. They said I would meet him after my required period of homelessness had miraculously ended, which they affirmed it would.

I expected that one night an airplane might land near the churchyard where I was every night, pick me up, and take me to another city or perhaps another country. I would begin a new life as the next Mother Teresa, and the wife of the man of my .

In my mind, the voices of a little boy and a little girl who were part of the choir I was hearing became more distinct. Months later, I would begin to hear the voice of my future husband, assuring me that he was coming soon.

In late January 2006 after the voices initially began I was taking a shower at a friend’s house. Suddenly I heard three men making rude and insulting comments. I knew they could see me because of their specific remarks. I stepped out of the shower to see the three men through the bathroom window and realized there was no window. I looked for a sunroof, but there was none. After a few minutes I realized no one could see me and there were no men.

I lived in a world of delusions and hallucinations which became more severe in the following weeks and months. One day, I saw the name of the college library where I spent much of my time had been changed by one letter. Weeks later, I looked into a mirror and saw an alarming version of my face morphed together with the cartoon character Lisa Simpson.

When I tried to read books, I noticed that words were underlined once, twice or three times. I found this incredibly distracting. I remember picking up other books only to find the same bizarre and unpredictable patterns of underlining. In about two months’ time I no longer knew what day it was. I could no longer check the date on a newspaper without hallucinating.

On a Wednesday night in 2006 I believed it was one week before Thanksgiving. However, during a conversation I discovered that the holiday would be the next day. I had become disoriented and detached from reality.

Through all of this, I strongly resolved to never mention the voices and the imaginary images I saw with any other person. I told myself that everyone else refrained from speaking about the things they saw and heard so I would too. I convinced myself that hallucinations were normal and common.

Eventually I was picked up by police for screaming back at the voices and transported to a ward, but I firmly believed I was not mentally ill. My strong resolve to keep my experiences a secret remained unchanged. Even though I clung to my belief that I was not hearing voices, I was diagnosed as totally and permanently disabled due to schizophrenia. That was it. It seemed my life was done.

Fortunately, today, there is even hope for people with the most severe and treatment resistant forms of schizophrenia. Initially, during my recovery experience, I endured twelve months of uncomfortable side effects trying many medications which offered me little relief from my symptoms. It can be challenging to find just the right to effectively address the specific needs of each individual, but it is crucial to not give up trying.

After twelve months, my new doctor prescribed an underutilized medication. Over time, my hallucinations disappeared, and I regained a quiet mind. As my recovery progressed I was able to return to college. Two years later I earned my degree in molecular biology and graduated with honors.

I would encourage my readers to never give up on any person, even if they have an experience like mine, resulting from a severe form of mental illness. Today, there is more hope than ever before thanks to newer treatments and medications.

In 2018, I am celebrating ten years in full recovery from severe schizophrenia.

====== 55 ========

WILDFIRES, HURRICANES, FLOODS, MUDSLIDES... TESTS OF FAITH?

“When you are dealing with questions too large for you [and] which, nevertheless, will not leave you alone, you are obliged to house them somewhere – and an old wall helps.”

-- from Archibald MacLeish, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, in the Foreword to the published version of his verse play J.B.

To grapple with those large questions that would not leave him alone, that haunted him, MacLeish chose an “ancient structure” – the Book of Job.

The story of Job can be found memorialized in an ancient fable (folk tale), ancient verse, and, of course, in the Hebrew Bible and in Scripture. It was reimagined, reconstructed, in MacLeish’s J.B., which is a play within a play, framed by a duel of egos; and inhabited by two sufferers and three comforters.

Given all the devastation experienced by thousands as a result of natural (and, perhaps, unnatural?) disasters, in 2018 alone, and given all the losses of life and property that have had to be absorbed, a sufferer might wonder, “Why me and mine?” Those spared might thankfully wonder, “Why not me and mine?”

Why does extreme loss and suffering come to some, and not others?

How much could we endure, how might we be? How much faith in the “rightness” of the world might we hold on to?

The playwright explained his play

MacLeish’s Foreword helped me grasp the dueling personalities that confounded my initial reading of his play, and my second reading. The Foreword (written as “a Trespass on a Monument”) explains that J.B. is “put in motion by two broken-down actors” who believe that they are to enact the Book of Job.

From a variety of reviews and commentaries, I finally surmised that, presumably to make a living, the broken-down actors have taken jobs with a traveling circus. One, a balloon-hawker imagines that he is to play the role of God, and assumes that role by putting on a God-mask. The other, a popcorn-vendor, reluctantly agrees to play the role of the devil, and does so whenever he puts on the leering red mask of Satan. When masked, these two actors challenge each other in a battle of egos, for the purpose of challenging Job’s steadfastness – his faith that God rewards good and only punishes when there is wrongdoing.

MacLeish provided this guidance: “Job’s search, like ours, was for the meaning of his afflictions – the loss of his children, the loss of everything he possessed, the loss of his wife’s kindness, who turned upon him in his agony with those ineradicable words, surely the most dreadful ever spoken by wife to husband: ‘Curse God and die!….'

“Job was, by witness of God himself, and twice repeated, ‘a perfect and upright man’ [who feared God and eschewed evil] and his destruction was, by the same unquestionable authority, ‘without cause….'

“My hero, called J.B. after the current fashion in business address, bears little relation to that ancient owner of camels, oxen, and sheep. He is not a particularly devout man. But he is, at the beginning of the play, prosperous, powerful, possessed of a lovely wife, fine children – everything the heart of a man can desire.”

MacLeish tells us that J.B. is aware – “as he could hardly help being” – that God has favored him. Like Job of the Bible, J.B. is not prepared for the “sudden and inexplicable loss of everything.” He is desperate to know the reason for his losses and his wretchedness.

Giving voice to God and the devil via “a stunning device”

In his December 30, 1958 New York Herald Tribune review, Walter Kerr advised his readers that “J.B. takes place under the dark and billowing canvas of an empty circus tent, where a balloon-man and a popcorn-peddler have decided to play God and the devil, respectively, while a band of unidentified mummers re-enacts the story of Job.”

The review informed readers that the pompous brimming-with- balloon-man (played by Raymond Massey, “immensely dignified in a trim white beard”) assumed the role of God. Needing a foil, he has to coax the popcorn-peddler to take on the role of the devil.

The hawker with the tray of unsold popcorn does not relish the idea of playing the devil. But the popcorn-peddler (“performed with brilliant mockery by Christopher Plummer”) shrugs and murmurs, “Well, it’s a demanding role.” Almost immediately upon slipping on a glowing red, leering mask, which features a sneering lip, the popcorn-peddler warms to the role. The review informed readers that the moment he slips on the mask, “he discovers that the mask has its own life, that it speaks through him and for him; that, in fact, he cannot silence it.”

With that review I began to grasp the role-playing assignments of the play within a play. However, by my reading, the devil becomes increasing compassionate as the God character insists on dealing J.B. misfortune upon misfortune; tragedy upon tragedy; unbearable afflictions; ultimate suffering and utter despair.

Why is J.B. being tested so severely?

Reconstructing a “thorny” Biblical story

A few weeks following the play being announced as the year’s winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, Life magazine devoted a lengthy article to MacLeish’s “monumental achievement which parallels the Bible’s thorny story of Job.”

In that May 18, 1959 issue of Life, readers were informed that “After declaring his faith in God’s justice, J.B. is beset by senseless disasters.” As if those unwarranted tragedies aren’t sufficient, the God character feels emboldened to visit still more afflictions and torments – to further test J.B.’s willingness to accept the God character’s ways. The devil is certain that these additional torments and physical afflictions will destroy J.B.’s faith in God. The latter believes that J.B. will accept these sufferings as his fate, and affirm his faith.

According to Life, J.B. “comes to realize that his repentance is for sins he has not committed and thus he recognizes that God does not operate by the laws of human justice.”

The play’s appeal: An exegesis on “shit happens”? or, is it ordained?

The play is not set in any specific time or place on Earth, thus its performances and favorable reception around the world.

Though the play’s initial conversations are set in or around an earthbound circus tent, what transpires between the God-mask and the Satan-mask seems to be on a different plane from that of the Earth – somewhere above or below any identifiable terra firma.

The play has us consider whether virtue is indeed its own reward – the only reward that may be reasonably expected. The play has us ponder whether misfortune, calamity, and catastrophe are ordained, or whether “shit just happens” to good people regardless of their goodness.

There’s also the cause-and-effect conundrum: Did Job’s (the prosperous businessman’s) self-assured piety arise from his desire to express for all his prosperity? Was he pious out of uncertainty, or from of losing his good fortune? Or did genuine pre-prosperity piety earn him his initial prosperity?

In the play, following declarations of faith and thanks at the family's Thanksgiving dinner table, J.B. is, as the devil labels him, the perfect pigeon for what we are meant to judge as unwarranted, unjust and cruel tests of faith.

Is the devil proposing one harassment after another, as a challenge to God’s certainty, God’s faith in Job? Or, are the afflictions God’s answers to the devil’s doubts about Job’s tolerance and endurance? I am not clear as to which player instigated the power play.

What is a mere mortal’s relationship with God and what might a mere mortal reasonably expect of and from God? What are God’s commitments and obligations to mere mortals, if any?

Job (a/k/a "J.B.") and Sarah’s “let’s make a deal”

At their Thanksgiving table, Job’s wife pronounces “Grace,” which she tells her children is “for the .”

Mouth and meat by grace amazed

God upon my lips is praised….

But Sarah worries that they have too much of a good thing:

God doesn’t give all this for nothing….

If we do our part, He does His….

I get frightened, Job… we have so much.

In reply, J.B. assures her,

Not for a watch-tick have I doubted

God was on my side – was helping me….

People call it luck….

It isn’t luck when God is good to you….

With an ominous prescience, Sarah delivers this foreboding:

I know you trust it. That’s what frightens me…. God rewards and God can punish….

God and Satan’s wheel of misfortune: Sympathy from the devil

The vendor who has put down his tray of unsold popcorn dons the Satan-mask. Emboldened, he confronts the God-mask by referring to Sarah’s concern about J.B.’s certainty regarding their prosperity:

Bought and paid for like a waiter’s smirk.

Wait ’til you lift the lot, he’ll sing another canticle – to different music….

Wait ’til your pigeon pecks at the world the way the rest do.

From behind the God-mask, the balloon-hawker boasts to Satan:

Nothing this good man might suffer,

Nothing at all will make him yelp as you do.

He’ll praise God no matter.

By my reading, Satan (or the role-player) appears to be discomfited by God’s (or the role-player's) piling on of afflictions. If “suffering teaches,” surely J.B. has learned whatever lesson, passed whatever test, had been intended. So Satan asks,

Why then must he suffer?....

Why then try the trust?

I could be mistaken, but by my reading, the popcorn-vendor sheds his Satan role for a moment, out of concern for J.B.:

God won’t let it happen, not to Job, the perfect and upright man. Job deserves his luck. He’s earned it.

Not yet disaffected, J.B., sobbing, declares his acceptance of misfortune,

The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away.

God commands, Finish it, Blessed be the….

What hath God wrought? and why?

By my reading, Satan (or the actor playing Satan) feels for J.B. The actor playing God comes across as arrogant. The latter seems pleased that he has destroyed J.B. without cause.

The popcorn-vendor is taken aback by all the suffering visited upon Job, “without cause”:

It isn’t decent! It isn’t moral even. It’s disgusting! His weeping wife in her despair. And he beside her on his trembling ham bones. Taking it! Eating it! It isn’t decent!

God (the role-player?) is victorious in the fear challenge. To Satan, or to popcorn-vender playing at Satan, the balloon-hawker playing God boasts and gloats:

You don’t lose gracefully, do you?

J.B., persecuted in what could be viewed as a show-trial to test faith, cries out for an answer, an explanation. He is desperate to know why he has been so afflicted. He assures his bereft wife,

God will not punish without cause… God is just!

In response to his wife’s seemingly realistic, wholly understandable despair and , J.B., prostrate, pleads:

Show me my , o God!

Rising to his knees, arms outstretched, he repeats,

Show me my guilt, o God!

Satan (or is it the pretend Satan?) concludes that there seem to be “no reasons adequate to J.B.’s catastrophes.”

Guilt – very cold comfort

Satan seems to conclude that J.B. has been made “worthy of his wretchedness” by “the gift of guilt, that putrid poultice of the soul that sucks the poison in, not out!”

Still not disaffected, J.B. rebukes his Comforters (one presumably a psychiatrist and one a cleric). He declares,

Guilt matters. Guilt must always matter. Unless guilt matters the whole world is meaningless…. Guilt must always matter…. I’d rather suffer every unspeakable suffering God sends… knowing that I had earned the need to suffer.

A Comforter suggests that “from guilt, hope begins.” When J.B. retorts, “Show me my transgressions,” the Comforter advises, “Search your inmost heart! Question it! Guilt is a deceptive secret….”

Doubt – and hopeful hopelessness

Finally, J.B. becomes desperate to be told his fault; to learn what he did to justify him suffering so much misery. He asks, “Shall I repent of sins I have not sinned?"

The actor who plays at being God offers this perspective:

We take what God has sent – the Godsend….

A world where there can be injustice….

Finally disaffected and , J.B. declares,

I will not duck my head again to thunder.

In rebuke, the actor playing God stiffens:

We have no peace but in obedience.

Our peace is acquiescence in the Will of God.

J.B. counters with resentment and his own declaration of independence from “life as a filthy farce”:

I will not and neither will I weep among the obedient who lie down to die in meek relinquishment protesting nothing, questioning nothing, asking nothing but to rise again and bow!

In stage directions, MacLeish instructs the actor playing J.B. to move “slowly, with difficulty” to deliver, “at last,” to his wife, “the hard words” about God’s unwillingness to explain “Why”:

We can never know….

He answered me like the stillness of a star that silences us asking….

We are, and that is our answer. We are and what we are can suffer. But what suffers loves, and will live its suffering again, risk its own defeat again, endure the loss of everything again, and yet again and again, in doubt, in dread, in ignorance unanswered, over and over….

Theology in the Theatre: Is J.B. cynical and irreverent? sacrilegious? blasphemous?

In his 1960 Journal of Bible and Religion appraisal, Studies Professor Burton M. Wheeler wrote that amid the “comforting [to churchmen] sweetness and light” of some 20th century theater touching on religion, “Archibald MacLeish’s J.B. intruded on the scene with troublesome audacity.”

Professor Wheeler did acknowledge, “Whether or not the verse is thin or the vulgarity is stagey or the dramatic conditions are confused, J.B. has impact on an audience and its future for revivals seems assured.”

In his Life magazine essay, “Arid Repudiation of Religion,” the Reverend Thurston N. Davis asserted that J.B. was neither a religious drama or a play: “If J.B. means anything, it is an urbane but shallow repudiation of religious faith."

Reverend Davis was editor-in-chief of America, a weekly journal of opinion published by the Jesuits of the United States and Canada. He was a member of the Society of Jesus, a scholarly religious congregation of the Catholic Church. In his view, the play's ending tells all about playwright: “It becomes quite obvious that the God who has been ‘bullwhipping’ our contemporary Job with his thundering, amplified pronouncements suddenly becomes, in Mr. MacLeish’s hands, about as meaningless as the mask worn by the old balloon-vendor who plays the role and speaks the lines of God. If J.B. ‘means’ anything, it means that the God of the Job story – He who commands the morning… gets told off and sent ingloriously to the wings by Man.”

Rev. Davis conceded that, “On the positive side, J.B. tries hard in its closing moments to become a secular affirmation of human life and human love as the sole props and rationale of bewildered humanity.”

Nevertheless, having read the J.B. script and having seen the play itself on two occasions, Rev. Davis concluded his appraisal with questions and a somewhat damning rebuke: “Are there divine ‘reasons’ for human pain? Is there at last a Justice that will set things right? Is there a Mind and a Providence at work in human affairs? Is Man enveloped by God’s Love? If I read and hear him aright, MacLeish is saying No.”

An ancient confrontation, with modern implications

In his Life magazine essay “Modern Answers to an Enigma,” Reinhold Niebuhr, who was a professor at Union Theological Seminary, credited MacLeish with “undertaking a difficult task” – attempting to answer “searching questions about the meaningless of extreme human suffering.” The attempt, wrote Niebuhr, was done with “artistic ingenuity.”

Niebuhr explained that while MacLeish’s play emphasizes “meaningless suffering,” the play “neglects the ancient book’s even more searching question about the meaning of life.”

This, Niebuhr contended, is “an even deeper problem than that of meaningless suffering but one more poignantly relevant to an atomic age which has the greatness to discover nuclear energy but lacks the to avoid the risk of nuclear war. MacLeish neglects this vital dimension of the original.”

Theologian and ethicist Niebuhr wrote, “Though MacLeish himself evidently does not believe in a personal God,” he does have God appear to Job in “a whirlwind to confront him [J.B] with all the mysteries of creation to prove that there is a meaning to life beyond that which any mere man can provide from his own limited perspective.”

The need for answers and explanations

In his Life magazine essay “Insight into Our Deep Need,” Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, who was chancellor of New York’s Jewish Theological Seminary, opened his assessment with this: “What is most startling about MacLeish’s distinguished play is its success as a Broadway production. A moralistic fable, based on the most difficult and perplexing book in Scriptures, attracts crowds in numbers usually expected only at musical comedies. Obviously J.B. answers a deep need.”

Finkelstein, a Talmud scholar, observed, “The play conveys, of course, the unspoken agony of a generation which, having witnessed the most horrible war in history, fears even more horrible catastrophes….

“In MacLeish’s view, one of our greatest problems is our failure to find any purpose in the sufferings of our time.”

The Playwright felt the need to “confess” and contest

In an article for The Christian Century, Archibald MacLeish confirmed that J.B. is intended to posit that while “God is, man may know Him only through love.”

MacLeish continued, “The justification of the universe is not our blind acceptance of God’s inexplicable will, nor our trust in God’s love, his dark and incomprehensible love, for us, but our human love, notwithstanding anything, for him… love is the only possible answer to our ancient cry against injustice.”

Luck, hard-luck, and harsh judgments

The New Yorker magazine’s theater critic, Kenneth Tynan, found the 1958 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, presentation “flawless,” but wrote, “The same, unfortunately, cannot be said of the thing presented.

Tynan credited MacLeish with going at “the task of justifying the ways of God to man” by employing the Book of Job, “that greatest of hard-luck stories,” which the playwright “retold in the form of a morality play.” While the playwright clearly wanted to raise “whirlwinds,” the critic bristled at the play’s “devotion to an antique and extravagant concept of the Deity.”

In that critic’s view, God and Man were pugilists in a metaphorical boxing match under a circus tent: “After each new body blow, God’s chosen sparring partner staggers back off the ropes for more, to the delight of God and the chagrin of Satan,” who, seemed (to me) to have moved into J.B.’s corner in the hope that the pummeled and bloodied mortal would throw in his pious towel, to “renounce and curse his Creator.”

Like a number of critics, Tynan was quite displeased with the play’s resolution – finding it to be a betrayal of all that had preceded: “To say that the ending cheats is to put it mildly. The play rests on the assumption, everywhere endorsed by the text, that we are judged by God. It then poses the question: Why are we judged so harshly?”

Tynan skewered, “Long before the final curtain, I was bored to exasperation by the lack of any recognizable human response to calamity.”

Tynan asserted that “justice, which distributes punishments and rewards, is a human invention.” He declared, to be wronged by misfortune or injustice is “not an evidence of sin.”

A contrasting concept was presented in “J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man,” by Mary Frances Thelen, a Professor of Religion. Thelen observed that many reviewers “speak of the confusion in which the audience finds itself at the end as to what is the real outcome of the play, what the author has finally concluded concerning the problem of the suffering of the innocent.”

Yet, Professor Thelen would go on to assert that J.B. must surely have had “tangible sins and sinfulness of which to repent, even if he has done nothing so dreadful as to merit the crushing disasters which overtake him”

Divine doings, wrath? or Mankind’s interventions, exuberance and inattentions?

In the ultimate show of incontestable prowess, MacLeish has God come to J.B. in a whirlwind, highlighting all that is in His power and domain.

Can we reasonably extrapolate from that demonstration of might that God is to blame for hurricane-force winds, tornadoes, and the wildfires fanned and spread by wind? Are the torrential rains that bring devastating floods, rockslides, and mudslides punishments demanding a modern-day Noah?

Or, has been so impacted by Man, the steward and groundskeeper of Earth, as to despoil what was entrusted to Man by the Creator?

Are we to expect God’s intervention to halt and restore what came about as a result of Man’s inattention? over-extension?

Has Mankind’s unkindness to the planet rewritten the God-mortal pact to read, “The Lord giveth, and Man taketh away?”

All this is beyond me. I report, you decide.

But like J.B.’s wife, I do wonder how it is that I have been so very fortunate (so damn lucky), while others have not. “Why me?”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments:

J. B. – the Samuel French, Inc. acting edition

“Theater: MacLeish Drama Based on the Story of Job” New York Herald Tribune, December 30, 1958

“The Ageless Story of Job’s Ordeals in the Year’s Prize Play” Life magazine, May 18, 1959

“Job’s Ordeal in Great Play” Life magazine, December 22, 1958

“Theology and the Theatre” by Professor Burton M. Wheeler, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1960

The New Yorker magazine, Kenneth Tynan review, December 20, 1958

“J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man” by Mary Frances Thelen, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1959

“The Book of Job” by Archibald MacLeish, published in The Christian Century, April 8, 1959

The Book of Job: When Bad Things Happened to a Good Person (Nextbook Press) by Rabbi Harold Kushner, excerpted and adapted for Tablet magazine as “Bad Things, Good Person: Is Misfortune God’s Doing?” 3 October 2012

Special thanks to Janet Valeski of Quinnipiac University’s Bernhard Library, Christina DeLucia of Quinnipiac University’s School of Law Library, and Amy Bush of the University of California Davis Shields Library.

====== 56 ========

WHY ARE PATIENTS RELUCTANT TO TAKE MEDICATION?

I’ve been through this before, the emotional fragility and unwarranted tears. Depre—No. No. I couldn't bear the thought of returning to that black bottomless pit. I can't even bring myself to use the word.

I search my . Why now? Has something triggered it? A fleeting thought: Is it related to yesterday's bout of sensory overload?

I have cavernous angiomas, clusters of thin-walled blood vessels in my . Two of them had bled, turning my life upside-down. To prevent future bleeds, I underwent three brain surgeries to remove the culprits. The ordeal left me with a number of neurological challenges.

Source: Deb Brandon

Among the various meds I take to manage these issues is the anti-seizure , Lamictal, which was prescribed by my neurologist several months before my surgeries. The 300 milligram daily dose was effective, but I looked forward to my post-surgery days. I was sure the surgeries would eliminate many of my symptoms, especially the seizures. I believed that eventually, I’d be able to wean myself off the Lamictal.

I was wrong—the seizures made a comeback, and my daily dose was increased to 400 milligrams.

It did not occur to me that the dose would go any higher. I certainly didn’t think that Lamictal would target another aftereffect of the surgeries— . In fact, the thought that I was suffering from biological depression didn’t enter my mind until I tumbled into the maw of suicide ideation.

During the first four months after the surgeries, I attributed my frequent tears to situational depression: I'd been through a lot; depression was to be expected. But after I became , of returning to that state of mind chased away denial, and I admitted my thoughts of suicide to my therapist, who pointed out that brain injury itself can cause depression. Since Lamictal is also a mood stabilizer, my psychiatrist increased my dose to 600 milligrams, which successfully controlled both depression and seizures.

Prior to the brain bleeds, I’d always kept my use of any type of medication to a minimum: painkillers for headaches and antibiotics for bacterial infections, nothing else. Now here I was, popping pills daily—6 pills to manage seizures and depression; two pills for blood pressure, to prevent additional bleeds; two pills for a folic-acid deficiency often associated with depression. In addition, I took a variety of pain-killers for crippling headaches. I felt like I was poisoning myself with all these meds, and the Lamictal was the worst of the lot, especially now that I was on a higher dose.

But I was that my depression was temporary. I was convinced that it was caused by the surgeries and that as I healed, my depression would subside. In time, I would be able to eliminate the Lamictal from my daily regimen of medication altogether.

Five years after the surgeries, my seizures and depression seemed to be things of the past, and, with my neurologist's and psychiatrist's blessings, I started decreasing the Lamictal dose. After several trial runs with lowered dosages, I was down to 500 milligrams per day.

Unfortunately, a couple of years later, the meds lost effectiveness—once again depression shadowed my every step. My psychiatrist, instead of increasing the dose of Lamictal, augmented it with another anti-depressant, Celexa. Not only did my depression abate, but so did my spells of sensory overload.

Sensory overload: During my first few years of recovery, I had enormous difficulties processing incoming sensory data. When the circuits in my brain overloaded, they jammed up, causing confusion and panic, which usually brought on spectacular meltdowns followed by emotional fragility that sometimes lasted for days.

According to my psychiatrist, the Celexa, in addition to addressing depression, also reduced , which had been feeding into sensory overloads, making them worse.

But now, years post-surgery, sensory overload was a rare occurrence; at its worst, I merely teared up, and then only briefly.

But over the last few weeks, I'd occasionally become weepy for no apparent reason. At first, I assumed that theses episodes were related to sensory overload. But given their increasing frequency, I started to wonder.

Then this morning, more than a decade since the surgeries, with no warning, I found myself sobbing, tears streaming down my cheeks.

What was going on? I recalled that yesterday, after attending a crowded event at work, I suffered an extreme case of sensory overload, such as I hadn’t experienced in years. I hadn’t had a meltdown since…since when? Two, three years ago? Probably more. Was today’s crying jag just an aftereffect of yesterday’s overload?

I shied away from the thought that this morning’s tears were due to depression once again descending. But I couldn’t repress my whispering about the possibility. I can't afford to stick my head in the sand. I cannot risk spiraling into the abyss like I did so long ago.

I probably should make an appointment with my psychiatrist as soon as possible—but she might increase the dosage of Lamictal or Celexa, and I feel the old resistance to "more meds" rise up. Will it do any harm to wait a bit longer? Maybe this is just be a blip that will pass.

I’m calmer now, no longer crying. Yes, I decide, I can afford to wait and see. I’ll hold off, for now. Until tomorrow, if I find myself weeping uncontrollably again, for absolutely no reason.

====== 57 ========

THE BEAUTY OF CONNECTIONS

Source: Photo by B. Luceigh

I feel driven to offer reflections on beautiful connections between humans. Perhaps my need arises to counterbalance sad prompted by the upcoming holidays, the weariness of ongoing divisive news, or the horrors of recent fires and floods. In the midst of many shadows, I am especially sensitive to the universal presence of what I experience as the Light of .

When I have a brief, sincere, face-to-face interaction with a stranger, I often sense delicate wavelets of Beauty passing through me. These encounters occur in safe public settings. The interactions are as simple as thanking someone for holding a door open for me, initiating a chat while waiting in line, or just smiling at someone as we pass on the sidewalk. I have become more observant of others doing likewise. In such situations, I have no need to know the stranger’s history, values, or views. I have no motive other than to connect beautifully. I best do so when I am fully present in the simple moments of the exchange. They are moments of connection, human with human, through mutual acknowledgement of each other’s existence.

I am likely to quickly forget any single connection amidst whatever I was otherwise doing at the time. Each event is like a punctuation mark within the paragraphs of my life. Each indicates when to pause, be alert, be curious, or stop as my personal story unfolds. What is most meaningful to me is the collection of not only mine but all such interactions with strangers. That collection serves to remind me again and again that there are other humans across our planet also interweaving beautiful connections among our species. I am reminded I am not alone at the deepest level of our shared humanity even though we each differ in our outward expressions of it. I am always a participant in life, but I better experience its Wholeness when I share the awareness of it by simple moments of connection. It is a practice that opens my heart and broadens my mind to our common inheritance as children of Earth.

Other connections that have been ongoing for longer periods of time become . More time allows for varieties of shared experience, exploration of values and preferences, and formation of memories. Over time, caring relationships may become deeper, stronger, and more loving ones as Beauty expresses herself within their connections.

When I consider my loving relationships in the context of the whole of existence, I see each as a form arising from universal Beauty—like a rosebud rising from an amorphous cloud. A deeply loving relationship provides evolving connections to nurture each other’s continuous developmental transformation into a more beautiful human flower. To “grow up” psychologically and “wake up” spiritually, whether as individuals or as a relationship, are exquisite expressions of Beauty’s limitless connections into forms.

When I have a brief, sincere connection to a stranger, I wonder if a micro-version of a loving relationship momentarily comes into being. Perhaps it’s like the brief fragrance of a rose emanating from inside a flower shop as one passes—noticed for only a moment before being lost by the next breath. I wonder if some small influence to connect can be recorded in the heart-mind of a stranger I speak to or smile at. I like to believe the voice or smile leaves a delicate memory that joins and enhances related memories within that person—like multiple times smelling a rose from outside a flower shop strengthens a single conscious recollection.

Might beautiful experiences join together to work their way from the unconscious to the conscious heart-mind within a human? Might the recipient of beautiful encounters with multiple strangers motivate one to transform into a more beautiful human? Might multiple times smelling roses entice one to take the first step into the flower shop? When I am sincerely present for another human, stranger or not, am I serving in that moment as Beauty’s fragrance drawing forth the soft edge of the rosebud of his/her potential as a human?

My belief in Beauty prompts me to find ways to embody her as I connect to others. My belief in Beauty reminds me that Good and True connections to others will help heal dark moments in our lives. Over time, I believe brief, sincere connections between strangers can transform into deeply caring relationships among humanity.

As you hold open the shop door for me,

may my as I pass

hold open your heart for you.

====== 58 ========

HALFWAY THROUGH THE WOOD

Source: Photo: Jessica Teich, used with permission

On a hot, still Sunday morning, I got an email from a dear friend’s ex-husband and son. It had a deceptively simple subject heading: “Sad News.”

It is with deep sorrow that we inform you that Judy passed away earlier today at her Santa Monica home. She was surrounded by her loved ones after a long struggle with her illness, which she kept very private.

“Very private” was an understatement: She hadn’t told anyone she was dying. No one even knew she was sick. Yet Judy wasn’t afraid even of the most difficult subjects, including her from the man who came back to care for her when she was ailing, or the terrible death of her own mother, whose giant necklace she wore like a talisman.

Judy and I first met more than twenty years ago, sitting on the floor of one of those progressive preschools where all the other moms were wearing yoga pants. When she said her name was Judy Blume— a name she shared with the beloved children’s author— I grinned and said I still had some questions about menstruation. (Remember Are You There God? It’s Me,Margaret?)She laughed, obligingly, I’m sure, and launched into one of the searching conversations that were her signature.

That’s the kind of conversation I want to have with her now. About her.

Judy was a literary person, a theatre person, and she particularly loved Stephen Sondheim. In fact, “Sondheim Fan” was her “handle,” before we even knew what handles were. She once sat in my living room and sang “No One is Alone” with my five-year-old daughter.

Sometimes people leave you

Halfway through the wood.

For a long time, she secretly rehearsed a cabaret act of her favorite songs. To console myself, I imagine her as one of T.S. Eliot’s mermaids, “singing, each to each.” Then I remember: I will never hear her voice again, just as Eliot never hears his mermaids:

I do not think that they will sing to me.

No one is alone, according to her beloved Sondheim, but Judy was, or nearly. When I began contacting our mutual , they were as surprised and devastated as I. I had sensed something was off and kept reaching out to her, mostly by text— the staccato informality seemingly a substitute for :

Where are you?

Are you okay?

Then one day I ventured, how are you feeling?

“Null,” she shot back.

The daughter with whom she’d sung Sondheim and I laughed, thinking Judy meant “well,” but had been autocorrected.

Now I wonder if “null” meant “ill,” and I just didn’t know it.

Why didn’t she want anyone to know?

Maybe it was pride, because she didn’t like to be fawned over. Or a healthy : She wanted to be remembered as she was. Vivid black hair, and that low, liquid voice, and the way she gave the word “theatre” three syllables. Bold enough in late middle age to wear a bathing suit to a pool party, plunging into the velvety water on a cold summer day. Judy worked out on the Santa Monica stairs for years, long after it was healthy for her hip. When she fell silent, I wondered if that hip was bothering her again. Maybe she needed a replacement? Were we really that old?

We met, sitting on pillows at a preschool.

Now our toddlers were turning 21.

Judy worked for years as a film editor, but left the profession when the hours proved too hard for a mostly single mother. She later became a therapist, graduating from a program many Hollywood people turn to in . I wouldn’t have thought her filmmaking skills would translate to : Therapists don’t edit things; they let the material emerge and take its own shape. But Judy had the most essential quality: she listened deeply. Very few people do. And I would have heard her, if she’d said, “I’m really ill” or “I’m dying.” I would have listened if she’d wanted to say good-bye.

“It’s me,” Judy Blume said whenever she called. She never said her name, that fabled name. If we were close enough that she needn’t have identified herself on the phone, wasn’t I close enough to know she was dying? I could have been there, to bring soup, to fluff pillows, to sing Sondheim; to help with the meds or the bills or the household chores. I could have been there, to recall the preschool playdates, the middle school struggles, the moment we began to let go of our kids in high school, because we had to.

We let go because we had no other choice.

One last , of bumping into her in an art museum in Los Angeles. She and her German beau (now her ex) were going to the desert to get married. Their son was three years old, and it seemed like the right time. I marveled at her cool, back in a day when people—at least nice Jewish girls from Philadelphia suburbs— got married before having a baby. She was impressively free. An iconoclast.

So, of course, she would choose to die in a way unlike anyone else. And I must let her go, not as I would wish to, but as she insisted I do.

Still, I haven’t been able to delete her final text message with the word “null.” I try not to dwell on the terrible void it describes. Sometimes I want to shout into the abyss, as if confronting the Judy Blume who wrote provocative children’s books: I’ve got questions! About life! About the end of things! About the pain you must have suffered, and the .

And the question, also without an answer, that tugs at me with an almost tidal pressure: How can I accept that I will never see you again?

Judy was a film editor, but she edited out all the interstitial tissue that binds our ideas about death; the long, labored days that allow loved ones to grieve. She left behind so many questions, not just about her only child but about her house and her dogs, Siberian huskies with piercing Arctic eyes. “They’re escape artists,” she once said of the two goliaths, forever finding their way out of her yard.

Judy was an escape artist, too.

It’s left to us to remember her, sleek as an otter in the water. Or singing.

It’s left to us to love her and let go.

====== 59 ========

THE HIPPOCAMPUS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND PHYSICAL HEALTH

is nothing more than good and a bad memory. —Albert Schweitzer

The hippocampus is a key area of the brain involved with basic function, part of the temporal lobe and intimately related with the amygdala. The hippocampus is involved with memory storage and retrieval, while the amygdala is best known for its role in and alarm in the face of potential threats. When functioning properly, the hippocampus is thought to create an appropriate context for , helping to support a coherent narrative of what is and is not really dangerous, keeping the amygdala regulated so that it is active only when appropriate...and buffering against excess , both from the and internally-generated.

Posttraumatic and stress-related effects

In conditions where fear-based responses have become poorly regulated, such as , the hippocampus has been found to be smaller in size and less effective at grounding the alarm signaling of the amygdala. It isn’t clear whether having a smaller hippocampus is the result of , a factor which predisposes to developing PTSD, or both. While there are many studies showing an association between PTSD and other conditions, and smaller hippocampi, there are only small twin studies comparing traumatized with non-traumatized suggesting that smaller hippocampi may be a risk factor for subsequent PTSD. On the other hand, animal studies have shown that chronic stress directly reduces the size of the hippocampus, and effective treatment can increase the size of the hippocampus and other brain regions. Most likely, there are complex two-way among hippocampus size, environmental factors, and risk for positive and negative impacts on well-being.

Such persistent activation of threat-response systems when no threat is present is associated with negative health effects due to connections between the hippocampus and other parts of the brain, including the HPA-axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) which regulates stress such as cortisol and adrenaline in the brain and body. In fact, the hippocampus has been found to play a role in well-being beyond its role in PTSD.

Self-esteem, health and the hippocampus

In recent research (Lu, Li, Wang, Song and Liu, 2018), study authors highlight the role of the hippocampus for both self-esteem and physical health, seeking to understand if the hippocampus is part of the brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and greater physical health. In reviewing the prior literature, researchers offer key observations. First, higher self-esteem is associated with better health outcomes and longevity, likely via higher reported levels of positive states including , relaxation, and joy. Lower self-esteem, in contrast, is associated with negative health outcomes, with increased risks for and , and use, and increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases.

Second, the the hippocampus is closely involved with self-esteem. This makes sense given that the hippocampus is involved with autobiographical memory, a key part of our sense of self and , how we feel about ourselves and the stories we tell ourselves and others about who we are. Neuroimaging research has shown that the hippocampus is larger and more active in people with greater self-esteem. Finally, the hippocampus is connected not just with psychiatric problems, but also plays a role in physical health. Research has shown, for example, that the hippocampus is smaller in size in Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, chronic and inflammation. The hippocampus is larger, on the other hand, in people with greater aerobic fitness, suggesting it may play a role in overall health.

Does the hippocampus connect self-esteem with physical health?

Given these observations, Lu and colleagues hypothesized that the hippocampus might be part of the underlying brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and physical health. In order to answer this question, they recruited 239 college students for a neuroimaging research study looking at the following factors: self-esteem, via the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES); physical health, via the Chinese Constitute Questionnaire (CCQ), a standard, validated measurement tool of general physical health; and structural MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), to look at the size of the hippocampus in study participants. Researchers then analyzed the data and performed a “mediation analysis” to determine what, if any, role hippocampal volume had in mediating the relationship between self-esteem and physical health.

First, they found that self-esteem and physical health were significantly correlated with one another in their study, confirming the results of prior research. They also showed that in this group of participants self-esteem and hippocampal volume were positively correlated for both left and right sides of the brain. The larger the hippocampi, the greater the reported self-esteem. Furthermore, they also found a positive correlation with hippocampus size and physical health, again for both left and right sides. Replicating the findings of previous research, they reported three key relationships: 1) self-esteem and physical health; 2) larger hippocampus and self-esteem; 3) larger hippocampus and physical health.

Source: Lu et al., 2018

However, while suggestive, these findings alone don’t provide evidence that the hippocampus is a primary player in determining how higher self-esteem leads to better physical health. In order to see whether the hippocampus is part of the pathway connecting self-esteem and physical health, researchers analyzed the data to see whether the connection between self-esteem and physical health remained as robust after factoring out the role of the hippocampus. In other, words, we can see how much the hippocampus mediates between self-esteem and physical health by seeing what happens when we subtract the contribution of the hippocampus, and see what is left over. When study authors performed this mediation analysis, they found that (illustration) there was a statistically significant decrease in the correlation between self-esteem and physical health, showing that hippocampal size is a key factor connecting the two. However, self-esteem and physical health were still related, independent of the hippocampus, showing that it is not the only factor connecting the two.

What can we do to enjoy greater self-esteem and physical well-being?

This is an early yet intriguing finding suggesting that the hippocampus has a primary, but not exclusive, role in determining how self-esteem leads to better physical health. It is tempting to speculate about the role of the hippocampus in identity and sense of self as an overarching influence in providing good sense of self, secure and healthy relationships with others, and as a result better self-care, especially given how trauma can interfere with physical and emotional health, and impair self-care.

On a basic level, however, the hippocampus is involved with regulating key physiological factors, balancing stress and relaxation responses depending on the context, under the influence of “top-down” factors from higher brain centers involved with executive function and conscious control of behavior. Future research can look in more detail at other brain networks involved in hippocampal control, in order to find ways to optimize physical health as mediated by self-esteem, to understand what specific behaviors may influence hippocampal function to foster greater health and whether existing and new treatments can target key brain regions to be more effective.

Does increasing self-esteem increase the size and function of the hippocampus? If so, what are the specific mechanisms? How does aerobic exercise increase hippocampus size, and how much of the health benefits are the result of altered hippocampal function? What tools can we develop to leverage the role of the hippocampus on health? Is the hippocampus involved in the positive effects of gratitude, , and happiness on well-being, shifting the stories we tell ourselves about who we are in literally healthier ways?

How much of a role does the hippocampus play in ensuring we can have healthy relationships with others, a factor which is also associated with better physical health? It makes sense to keep doing things we know help us feel better about ourselves, enjoy greater self-esteem and self-efficacy, and do more of what makes us feel better and be healthier, while looking forward to understanding how best to use emerging brain science to provide additional tools for improving health and quality of life.

====== 60 ========

HAVE WE UNDERESTIMATED THE HARM CAUSED BY LOW SELF-ESTEEM?

Until now, there’s been surprisingly little research on the prime driving factors of self-harm among LGBTQ students who are statistically at a much higher risk of suicide and non- (NSSI) than their heterosexual counterparts. For the first time, a new study, “Psychological Correlates of Self-Harm within Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual UK University Students,” reports that low may have a bigger influence on self-injury behaviors than or .

Source: Sharon McCutcheon/Pexels

Based on the cohort used for this study, almost two-thirds (65%) of students in their early 20s who self-identify as Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual (LGB) had carried out non-suicidal self-harm over their lifetime. Tragically, 35 percent of LGB students in this survey reported an attempted suicide in their lifetime compared to 14 percent of non-LGB students.

Other types of NSSI self-harm are behaviors such as , binge drinking, non-lethal overdoses, cutting, burning, scratching, and trichotillomania.

The authors explain the layout of their latest research on self-harm: "This study explores the association between lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) status and self-harm in UK students. There is currently limited data on this association, and the role psychological variables have in potentially explaining this link, in UK students. We examine whether LGB status is associated with self-harm (both non-suicidal self-injury [NSSI] and suicide attempts [SA]), and whether 4 psychological variables (depression, anxiety, belongingness, self-esteem) mediate this association.”

This study was a collaborative effort by researchers from the University of Manchester, Leeds Beckett University, Lancaster University, and Edith Cowan University in Australia.

"Surprisingly, there is little data on the psychological mechanisms that might explain the association between being lesbian, gay or bisexual, and self-harm in UK students. This data highlights how low self-esteem may leave some LGB students more at risk. Interestingly, anxiety and depressive symptoms did not appear to be important once self-esteem was taken into account,” first author Peter Taylor said in a statement.

Senior author Elizabeth McDermott of Lancaster University added: "Young people's mental is a national concern and this study confirms that lesbian, gay or bisexual young people have elevated rates of suicidality and self-harm compared with heterosexual youth. We know much less about how LGB young people seek help for their mental health problems, or what type of support would be effective."

Anecdotally, I corroborate the conclusion by Peter Taylor et al. that low-self esteem puts lesbian, gay, and bisexual students at higher risk of self-harm. Based on my first-person experience as a gay student in the 1980s who suffered from a triple whammy of (1) clinical depression, (2) crippling anxiety, and (3) low self-esteem—I realized in adulthood that it was primarily my feelings of worthlessness and low-self esteem (more than depression or anxiety) that pushed me to the brink of taking my own life.

Can Physical Activity, Mental Toughness, and Sub-Clinical Narcissism Facilitate a “Sunny” Triad that Combats Low-Esteem?

For the second part of this blog post, I’m going to shift gears and present some prescriptive advice I’ve cobbled together based on a blend of the latest empirical evidence and personal life experience.

Because there’s such a dearth of evidence-based research on the link between low self-esteem and self-harm amongst members of the LGBTQ community, I’ve made myself a human guinea pig and deconstructed specific factors that helped me boost my self-esteem as a gay teen through the lens of the latest research on subclinical narcissism (SN) and the so-called “Dark Triad” (DT) of narcissism, , and Machiavellianism.

After piecing together the latest findings on some adaptive benefits of subclinical narcissism over the past week, I’ve created a new term and coined it: “The Sunny Triad." The ST consists of physical activity (PA), mental toughness (MT), and healthy doses of subclinical narcissism (SN).

Source: diggis/Shutterstock

Last week, I wrote a Psychology Today blog post, “Don’t Believe the Hype! ‘Narcissists’ Aren’t Necessarily Evil" inspired by a study from Kostas Papageorgiou and colleagues at Queen’s University Belfast, “The Positive Effect of Narcissism on Depressive Symptoms Through Mental Toughness: Narcissism May Be a Dark Trait, but It Does Help with Seeing the World Less Grey,” published Nov. 1 in European .

In my "Don't Believe the Hype!" blog post—which tries to dissuade people from indiscriminately throwing around the derogatory label " " without acknowledging that narcissism exists on a spectrum—I share my own stories of overcoming low self-esteem and adopting a “YES! Bring it on. I got this!” mindset as a gay teen. For me, the key to overcoming my tendency to inflict self-harm involved developing some healthy narcissism and a "sense of agency" at a time when I felt my life didn't matter.

Papageorgiou posits that healthy doses of SN are correlated with increased mental toughness, more to Experience (OE) and fewer depressive symptoms (DS). I agree.

Notably, over the years, I've found that music can play a pivotal role in kick-starting an upward spiral of PA, SN, MT, and OE by creating to break a sweat doing some moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). For more, check out this "Subclinical Narcissists' Playlist" of 22 songs I curated to help generate more self-esteem and overall oomph.

As a side note: I realize that the growing list of acronyms herein is beginning to sound like alphabet soup... But each of these factors (SN, MT, OE, PA, etc.) are key elements that can be blended together into a psychosocial concoction that has the power to boost feelings of self-sufficiency, self-worth, higher self-esteem, and lower depression.

Coincidentally, after sharing my latest blog post on the possible upside of healthy doses of narcissism, Gregory Carter of York St. John University retweeted the link with a comment, “An interesting article that chimes with some of the positive outcomes (for the self) associated with aspects of sub-clinical narcissism, also reported in work by me and @DrMDDpsych and other papers with @DrRobertVaughan @YSJPsych.”

After reading Carter’s Tweet, I Googled his research and found a recent paper he’d done with Robert Vaughan, “Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger? Mental toughness, the Dark Triad, and Physical Activity,” (2018) which identified a positive relationship between mental toughness, sub-clinical narcissism, and higher levels of physical activity among elite-level athletes.

This paper by Gregory Carter and colleagues overlayed with the work of Kostas Papageorgiou et al. triggered an “Aha!” moment in my and was a catalyst for my realization that physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism may be part of a “sunny triad” that can increase self-esteem. Based on my own life experience and the empirical evidence provided by the aforementioned researchers, I suspect that combining the "sunny triad" of three acronyms (PA + MT + SN) on a regular basis in day-to-day life may be a recipe for boosting self-esteem.

Over the past few days, I’ve been corresponding with Gregory Carter for a follow-up blog post and Q&A we’re collaborating on tentatively titled: ”Physical Activity May Brighten Aspects of the Dark Triad: Can physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism create a "sunny" triad?”

====== 61 ========

MULTITASKING IN THE MIND'S EYE

Source: Pixabay / CC0 Public Domain

It’s common knowledge by now that multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to go about our daily business. Study after study has shown that when we try to perform multiple tasks at the same time, we end up doing each of them more slowly and less accurately than if we had focused on one task at a time, which is all our actually permits us to do. And while we’re not always aware of this inefficiency in our own efforts at multitasking, we notice it every day in other people. Just this morning, for instance, when I stopped by a local fast food establishment to pick up breakfast, the headset-wearing cashier who approached me at the counter simultaneously took my order while completing an order in drive-thru, and on the way to pick up my food, restocked cups, removed the hash brown basket from the fryer, and set up three cups on the automatic soda dispenser. I was not the least bit surprised, then, when I got to my car and discovered that my two ham biscuits and coffee had turned into a breakfast burrito and hot tea with a cookie on the side. Multi-tasking is, quite simply, a bad idea. Our brains are wired to focus on one task at a time, and to try to do more than that is to fight against our own , neurally speaking.

And yet, fight we do. Flying in the face of the prevailing about the fundamental inefficiency of multitasking, most of us spend our days performing multiple tasks at once because it simply makes us feel like we are getting more work done in a shorter span of time—it gives us the illusion of efficiency. Given our insistence on multitasking, in spite of what the scientific evidence might say, it is comforting to learn that this illusion of efficiency might not be purely illusory after all. New research from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan suggests that, while trying to perform many tasks at once is less efficient than taking them on one at a time, the perception that we are multitasking can, under certain circumstances, actually improve our performance. Srna et al. presented people with a variety of activities that could be viewed as either single tasks or collections of multiple tasks, and compared their performance on the tasks on the basis of which way they perceived them.

In one study, 162 participants were divided into two groups and asked to watch and transcribe an educational video. One group was told they would be completing two tasks simultaneously—a learning task and a transcribing test--while the other was told they would be working on a single learning task meant to test their learning and writing abilities. In other words, while both groups were performing exactly the same activity, one group viewed their effort as multitasking, while the other considered themselves to be performing a single task. When the results of the two groups’ note-taking sessions were compared, the people who perceived the work as multitasking outperformed the group that viewed it as a single task, transcribing more words, showing greater accuracy in their transcriptions, and scoring higher on an unannounced quiz at the end of the study. The perception that they were multitasking significantly improved the first group’s efficiency, as compared to the second, single task group.

In another study, 237 participants were divided into two groups and asked to work on two puzzles—a 15 x 15 matrix of letters from in which they searched for words in a horizontal, vertical, and diagonal pattern, and an anagram task in which they constructed as many words as possible from a string of ten letters. The “multitasking” group was told that the puzzles related to two different studies (perceptual and identification), while the “single-tasking” group was told that the two puzzles were both part of a single “perceptual-identification” study. As with the video transcription study, the group that believed they were performing two tasks at once outperformed the group that believed they were performing a single task, coming up with more words in the time allotted. Once again, the illusion of multitasking appeared to increase efficiency.

The researchers conjecture that the boost in efficiency they observed in the participants who perceived themselves as multi-tasking has to do with their relative engagement in the tasks with which they were presented. Previous studies have demonstrated that people’s for investing effort and attention increases with the difficulty of a given task. The participants’ perception that they were multitasking may have increased their engagement with the tasks because they considered performing multiple tasks at once more challenging than performing one task at a time. This conjecture was supported by physiological measures, in that the multitasking group exhibited greater pupil dilation during their work than did the single-tasking group, and pupil dilation has been shown to be associated with people’s “attentional and mental effort, processing load, and arousal.” The perception that we are multitasking may increase our engagement with a task simply because we view it as a challenge.

Another possible reason for increased engagement in perceived multitasking is the cultural perception that multitasking is a desirable . We may focus more attention on multitasking than on performing one task at a time simply because we wish to be perceived as good multitaskers. Whatever the precise source for this increased engagement may be, the study suggests that we focus more attention on an activity when we perceive it to involve multitasking, as compared to the same activity when we perceive it as involving only a single task, and that this increase in focus makes us work more efficiently.

Srna et al. are quick to clarify that their study in no way contradicts the voluminous evidence that trying to perform several tasks simultaneously is far less efficient than performing one task at a time. Multitasking, in the way most of us go about it, is still a bad idea. When faced with an activity that can be broken down into component parts, however—balancing our checking account, for example, or creating a budget report at work—approaching it as a collection of tasks instead of as a single tedious job can sharpen our focus and give us an edge in the way we execute it. While the reality of multitasking creates the false illusion of efficiency, the illusion of multitasking can make greater efficiency a reality.

====== 62 ========

THE UNEXPECTED SCIENCE OF FRESH STARTS AND FAILURES

A new study published in the journal Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes looked at the effects of “fresh starts” on performance. The fresh start effect, as it’s come to be known, is the idea that a person can disassociate their past performance outcomes from current ones. Temporal landmarks act as a kind of mental reset button to help get us back on track and get us focused on our most cherished goals.

Source: Source: Pixabay

The most common fresh start: January 1st, the start of every New Year. It’s no coincidence, for instance, that gyms see upwards of a 20% boost in memberships at this time.

The evidence has generally pointed to the benefits of fresh starts. They motivate a person to do better in achieving a goal. But now this current research tells us that they don’t always work. They can actually backfire and make us perform worse, not better. The researchers say it has to do with what comes before the performance reset.

Fresh starts are most effective, they suggest, when a person experiences failure before the restart, like how a failed plan in the month of December prompts the need for a kale-only food plan starting Jan 1. But the evidence of this paper is showing that fresh starts should be avoided if a person’s past performance was successful. If a restart is used incorrectly in such instances, it will only hinder future goal-directed behavior.

Source: source: Pixabay

The pros and cons of fresh starts: The study

There were four studies. In the first, participants took part in 10 one-minute word games where they were paid for every word they generated correctly. Halfway through, they received feedback. To manipulate the fresh start, the testing group had a reset applied with the last 5 rounds scored from zero (offering a new starting point). The control group received the same continuous scoring throughout all 10 rounds.

The second study had participants use a performance tracking app. They were asked to focus on a habit they wanted to improve and to imagine using the app to get them there. Resets were applied to all participants. But half of them assigned to a “weak performance group” were led to believe they were performing poorly, while the other half assigned to a “strong performance group” were led to believe they were performing well.

In both these first two studies, a questionnaire measured participants’ and , in addition to performance metrics. In both instances, the only people who benefited from the performance resets were the ones who had (or led to believe they had) been performing less well. And the resets actually hindered the performance of those who been doing well previously.

The third follow-up study used a similar word game. Except this time, participants were given the opportunity to complete a further round of word games that could potentially earn them extra pay. When resets were applied, the strong performers in particular were less motivated to continue on with the additional rounds.

In a final study looking at archival data, the researchers went to a high-performance domain --professional baseball. They were curious to see whether resetting a baseball player’s batting average would depend on their past performance.

Source: source: Pixabay

They could do this because in baseball, a player’s batting average gets reset to zero when they get traded (a natural fresh start). The findings showed that when players’ batting averages were lower than that of their league average (i.e. failed past performance), a trade led to a 3.8% increase in a player’s batting average. Opposite, players performing above average (i.e. successful past performance) led to a 5% decrease.

What to do about it

The takeaway: Fresh starts should be used with care. A person should be more selective in their performance resets, and recognize in themselves the difference between their good and bad past performance. If a person has been succeeding and hitting their goals, it’d be for them to avoid starting tasks on temporal landmarks.

For instance, this can be achieved by exaggerating the of a continued goal process and drawing to the previous periods’ reporting and metrics. A person who’s doing well thus far on a particular project could, let’s say, see Monday not as a new start to the week, but as a regular day that continues from the day previous. Not to condone working over-time on weekends, but it might even help to do a little bit of work on the Sunday.

And for those of us lagging behind in our personal and professional goals, no need to worry – January 1st is right around the corner.

Want to know more about goals, motivation, and peak performance? Head on over to get tactical advice and insights from the latest research.

====== 63 ========

HOW TO DECIDE WHETHER TO MARRY

is often wonderful. Many people swear by it.

It’s also bizarre. You’re electing to commit to lifelong devotion, to feeling like wanting to accommodate another person forever no matter who they turn out to be over time.

Having children is elective too, though more like electing to enter an arranged marriage. You get the child that your arrange for you.

In marriage, you’re volunteering to throw all in with someone of your choosing, which, when you stop to think about it, is rash. If instead, you were committing to lifelong devotion to a , you’d be joining a cult.

Looks play a big part in many marriage decisions. Looks are a convincing, often life-altering optical illusion. Nothing appears more eternal than youthful hotness. Yet nothing is quite so perishable.

No wonder marriage is so heavily subsidized by and culture, our bodies insisting on it, our culture extolling it. If it weren’t, we’d never make such a radical commitment. People don’t just marry drunk in Las Vegas. Many marriages are made under the intoxicating influence of hormonal conviction and subtle, yet wall-to-wall social pressure. Still, marriage can be a wonderful thing.

in search of a lifelong partner is bound to make us ambivalent. We’re deciding to stop deciding about someone, in effect, to trust them forever. We’re pouring over details of another person to decide whether we can stop pouring over details and just love them.

Intoxicating hormones have to convince us to overlook lots because we’d otherwise be too cautious. And by now, with less social pressure to marry, our cautiousness gets expressed. We size each other up warily, more in line with what you’d expect from such a humongous decision.

So how best to decide whether to marry in times like these? Here are some tips, with some application to any big decision.

1. It’s the matrimony, stupid.

Courtship wariness can breed meta-wariness, wariness about each other’s wariness. Either of you might begin to suspect the other of “ of intimacy,” or of being ungenerous, paranoid, controlling, , needy, greedy, expecting too much, moving too quickly or moving too slowly, any of which may be true but isn’t necessarily. All of those characteristics are perfectly natural for two people doing this dance on the courtship tightrope before deciding whether to fall toward or away from each other, committing to each other for life or breaking up.



If you both enter into the courtship knowing that you’re on the tightrope, you’re less likely to take the jitters and jerks of the dance as personally, mistaking each other’s caution or zeal for a character flaw. It’s not you or your partner but the humongous commitment your considering making that’s giving you the jitters.

2. Fighting is a red flag; not fighting is even more dangerous.

Kids bicker. It drives their crazy but serves a purpose. They’re learning what works and doesn’t work in the give and take of life. Chalk it up to practice.

Courting couples have to learn how to fight too, learning how to minimize fighting in your give and take. You’re learning where to tuck in or jut out your elbows for the most efficient give and take. You’re also assessing whether you can tolerate the bickering that you probably won’t be able to eliminate. You’re -testing the relationship, which is much smarter done before than after taking your vows.

Again, if you both recognize that this is part of the courtship dance, you’re less likely to escalate into meta-fights – fights about the fact that you fight. As a result, you’re more likely to get a clear reading on what kinds of compromises you’ll have to make if you commit to marriage.

3. Throwing all in to see whether you want to throw all in.

Courtship in general, not just the bickering, is practice marriage, a tentative commitment which is a necessary but complicating oxymoron. You’re both mustering your most enthusiastic effort to determine whether you want to muster you most enthusiastic effort ‘til death do you part. You don’t want to buy marriage until you’ve tried it and you can’t try it ‘til you’ve acted as though you’ve already bought it. So you act like you’ve bought it and see how it goes. You pledge love to see whether you want to pledge love.



You have to. You’ve got to find out whether throwing all in compels your partner to reciprocate or get complacent. You give an inch hoping to discover that your partner will give an inch rather than taking a mile. If your partner takes a mile, run a mile. Get out before it’s too late. But in the testing, test earnestly. Really show up, to see whether you really want to show up forever.

4. In stress-testing the relationship, take pride in your strategic cleverness instead of taking self-protective umbrage.

Showing up is easier said than done, what with your understandable wariness about what you might be getting yourself into. It’s easy to feel compromised by partnership. Romance is the dream that you can just be yourself and loved unconditionally. Courtship starts with romance but moves on to something less dreamy, more realistic. You can’t just be yourself. You have to tuck in your elbows to make room for each other. If you pretend that courtship is like any other no-big-deal decision, you’ll feel surprised, insulted or threatened by the compromises – injured pride. That will throw off your assessment.

The alternative is to take quiet pride in your strategic cleverness. Pat yourself on the back for bending over backward for your partner. Pretty cunning. It’s you skillfully testing how your partner responds. If you decide that bending over that much is not worth it, at least you’ll have the consolation of thoroughness which you wouldn’t get if hurt pride makes you stingy.

5. Leave out of it.

Though your culture might imply that marriage is an easy, obvious, natural virtue it isn’t. These days, it’s an optional preference, a lifestyle choice, not a moral imperative. You don’t have to marry. If you choose that lifestyle you’re under moral obligations within it. But you’re not under obligation to choose the lifestyle.

You are, however, under moral obligation to decide whether you want it. These days, the residues of our culture’s marriage imperative still have people feeling obligated to marry when their hearts aren’t really into it. Don’t be like that. Know your heart as best you can. To go through the motions of wanting to marry because you’re still under the influence yesteryear’s moral mandate is like the closeted gay entering hetero . It’s unkind to the person you’re courting.



Also, in the practice bickering, moral mandates get tossed around. If you’re unwilling to do something for your partner, he or she might imply that you’re ungenerous, selfish or greedy, even narcissistic.

You might be, but courtship is a lousy test for whether you are. You’re testing your willingness to give all to someone forever. If you’re unwilling, it doesn’t prove that you’ve got some fatal character flaw. Despite what you hear from exes, not every person who pulls out of partnership is a narcissist. Deciding you don’t want to give all to someone forever might merely mean that you want to give elsewhere.

6. Rehearse a story that would rationalize each outcome.

As with any big decision, you’re going to feel a lot of tugs. “I can’t choose that. How would I ever justify that decision?” For example, “I can’t pull out of this courtship. It would prove that I’m ungenerous.” Or, “I can’t marry. How would I ever explain dropping my pledge to protect my independence?”

To neutralize those subconscious tugs, treat those questions as real, not rhetorical. For each possible choice, rehearse something you could say to justify it to you, some answer to some friend’s “what happened there?”

It doesn’t have to convince your friend who is likely to support and you whatever you decide, but something that would be convincing enough to you. Armed with an armful of self-justifications, one for each choice you might make, you can make the decision without subconscious tugs biasing your decision.

====== 64 ========

IS IT BETTER TO BE LOYAL OR HONEST IN YOUR RELATIONSHIPS?

An old friend is in town on a trip that you’ve known about for months. Back when you made a date to get together for the evening, it seemed like a great idea. You definitely want to see this person, or at least you did at the time. Now that it’s getting closer to the actual event, you’re starting to regret having made those plans. Things have gotten hectic at work, and you’d like to take the evening to sit around in your sweats and binge watch that new program which just became available for streaming. Perhaps it’s not an evening out, but a lunch date on a weekday close by to where you work. The weather forecast is predicting a messy, rainy, day and you don’t think you’ll want to venture out any more than is necessary to get from home to the office. These situations present you with a classic dilemma: Do you tell the truth to your friend but risk the relationship or preserve the relationship by making up a legitimate-sounding excuse?

Testing the values of loyalty vs. honesty in moral judgments, Cornell University’s John Angus D. Hildreth and University of California Berkeley’s Cameron Anderson (2018) asked “Does loyalty honesty?” As they note, “groups often demand loyalty, but all too often, loyalty can corrupt individuals to engage in deceit." Among the list of possible deceptions that loyalty to organizations or causes can prompt is pretending to believe in something you don’t or overlooking bad behavior by people who are a part of your group. A politician might downplay a fellow office-holder’s illicit activity or a sales manager might turn a blind eye to the shoddy products that the company is putting out on the market. You might lie to help your win in a competitive match. The deceptions involved in these instances have more serious consequences than those associated with to a friend to preserve the relationship, but the same underlying dynamic is at play in that honesty and loyalty operate at cross-purposes.

As the Cornell-Berkeley researchers go on to observe, most people view lying as unethical but may be more accepting when a lie is the result of a prosocial motive. In fact, they cite evidence that you’ll gain more trust from the people who know you if you have a reputation as a prosocial liar. A friend may overhear your saying to a mutual acquaintance that her new hairstyle looks great when, clearly, the cut and color are all wrong. Your coming out with this slight untruth shows how much you value other people’s feelings. Such lies are preferable to lies that are intended to give you an advantage over other people in order to get ahead. When you tell someone she looks nice so that you can get her to do a favor for you, this is no longer a prosocial lie because you’re doing this to increase the odds of getting something you want.

However, when a lie isn’t just prosocial but a “loyal lie,” other people are likely to view you far more negatively. A lie that is intended to protect shady operations by a group of which you are a part comes closer to a self-serving lie than one that is , even though “loyal” implies some sort of higher purpose. There is a philosophical reason for this notion as well. Philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mills regard loyalty as “immoral” due to its “inherent partiality.” Because loyal lies benefit one’s group as well as oneself over others, they should be perceived as immoral by those who observe the lie being told. The liar, by contrast, sees no such problem and, in fact, feels “a moral imperative to act in the best interests of the group.” By not lying, the individual runs the risk of “negative social judgment, ostracism and social exclusion."

Putting these ideas to the test, Hildreth and Anderson conducted a series of 4 studies involving nearly 1400 participants involving both online surveys and laboratory experiments. In the online version of the test of the study’s hypotheses (later replicated with college students), participants read scenarios varying in the behavior described by an individual who either lied or did not lie either to benefit their group in its with another group. The question was whether participants would regard deceit as unethical and immoral. In the condition involving loyalty and intergroup competition, participants perceived deceit as being relatively less unethical than in other conditions. However, participants rated loyal deceit (lying to benefit their group) as more unethical than disloyal honesty (being honest at the expense of one’s own group).

The research team placed college student participants in the experimental study similarly in conditions involving either intergroup competition or no competition. Here the question was whether or not they would lie when their loyalty was triggered. Rather than judging the and ethicality of others, then, participants judged their own behavior. As shown in prior studies, participants were more likely to lie when they thought it would help their own group. In general, they judged their own behavior as less ethical when they lied compared to when they were honest. However, there was an important exception- when they lied to benefit their group, the participants did not see any ethical problem in their own behavior. In fact, they actually saw their behavior as slightly more ethical when they lied compared to when they told the truth. As the authors concluded, “these individuals seemed to ground their self-perceptions in a morally pluralistic framework, focusing on loyalty above and beyond truthfulness as a critical moral dimension in this context” (p. 90). In other words, liars can compartmentalize enough to be able to justify their lying if it serves a purpose of protecting their group. The final study in the series randomly assigned participants in the laboratory simulation to actor or observer role. As in the prior studies, loyal lies received the harshest judgments by observers, but not by the actors themselves.

To sum up, in answer to the article’s title, loyalty really does trump honesty in the view of the person committing the lie. Loyal liars don’t just rationalize their lying after the fact; instead, they have different standards for loyal lying than they do for honesty. Returning to the quandary you find yourself in when you feel you need to lie to get out of a prior obligation, the Cornell-Berkeley study suggests that it’s all too easy to slip into a mode where you see your lying as needed to protect your relationship. This may be fine on an occasional or extreme basis, but it’s quite likely that you can easily slip down that slope into habitual lying. Rather than lie to protect your relationship, then, a dose of honesty may be needed even if it seems difficult at the time. Alternatively, perhaps you shouldn’t lie at all. If you’ve made a social commitment that now seems inconvenient, consider following through on it. You may have a much better time than you realized you would, and the loyalty you show toward those in your life might just provide the basis for more fulfilling .

====== 65 ========

HOW YOUR BRAIN CAN PREDICT THE FUTURE

Source: Wikipedia/Creative Commons

As the well-known adage states: “Timing is everything.” Watching Roger Federer serve and volley at lightning-fast speeds and consistently hit the ball in the sweet spot of his tennis racket is awe-inspiring. To spectators, it seems as if Federer has a sixth sense that makes it possible for him to prepare his hand-eye coordination in advance with the clairvoyance of a mind-reader, who can predict exactly where the ball is going to be, milliseconds before it's actually within swinging distance.

Athletes commonly refer to the importance of anticipatory timing and predicting the future trajectory of a ball or hockey puck in motion. As Wayne Gretzky famously said, "A good hockey player plays where the puck is; a great hockey player plays where the puck is going to be." Along this same line, Yogi Berra once said, “You don’t have to swing hard to hit a home run. If you got the timing, it’ll go.” Legendary Major League Baseball left-handed pitcher, Warren Spahn, echoed this sentiment when he said, “Hitting is timing. Pitching is upsetting timing.”

But how does the brain "predict the future" and anticipate the precise timing of finely-coordinated muscle movements in advance? New research from the University of California at Berkeley has identified, for the first time, that the brain uses two separate brain regions to predict the future for anticipatory movements.

More specifically, the researchers found that we use the cerebellum and the basal ganglia in concert to calculate the timing of finely-coordinated muscle movements in , music, and everyday life. "Together, these brain systems allow us to not just exist in the moment, but to also actively anticipate the future," senior author Richard Ivry, a UC Berkeley neuroscientist and director of the Cognition and Action Laboratory (CognAc), said in a statement. The Ivry lab focuses on how people from all walks of life learn new skills, select motor functions, and produce coordinated movements.

This paper, “Double Dissociation of Single-Interval and Rhythmic Temporal Prediction in Cerebellar Degeneration and Parkinson’s Disease,” by Assaf Breska and Richard B. Ivry was published online November 13 in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

As you can see by watching the video above, the ability of a player to hit a fastball in the sweet spot of a baseball bat is a mind-boggling phenomenon.

According to the latest findings on anticipatory timing by Breska and Ivry, the cerebellum and basal ganglia split their timekeeping responsibilities depending on the specific task at hand. When the calculation of exactly when to coordinate a movement relies on past experiences, the cerebellum seems to be the key player. On the flip side, when rhythm is a factor, the basal ganglia seems to take center stage.

Source: CLIPAREA l Custom media/Shutterstock

The bottom line: Rhythmic timing appears to be primarily a function of the basal ganglia and timing based on of prior experience is more cerebellum-based. Notably, in cases where someone has damage to his or her cerebellum or basal ganglia in a way that causes one of these two neural clocks to misfire, the other region seems to have the ability to pick up the slack and compensate.

"Whether it's sports, music, speech or even allocating , our study suggests that timing is not a unified process, but that there are two distinct ways in which we make temporal predictions and these depend on different parts of the brain," lead author Assaf Breska, a postdoctoral researcher in at UC Berkeley, said in a statement.

To test how the cerebellum and basal ganglia share anticipatory timing duties, Breska and Ivry compared how well Parkinson's patients with basal ganglia deficits and cerebellar degeneration patients responded to a series of “temporal” cues that were either rhythmic or represented more complex, arrhythmic patterns.

"We show that patients with cerebellar degeneration are impaired in using non-rhythmic temporal cues while patients with basal ganglia degeneration associated with Parkinson's disease are impaired in using rhythmic cues," Ivry said. These results suggest that the human brain uses two different regions and mechanisms for anticipatory timing.

According to the researchers, these new findings debunk long-held theories that a single brain system was responsible for all our timing needs in sport, music, and life.

Source: CLIPAREA l Custom media/Shutterstock

"Our results suggest at least two different ways in which the brain has evolved to anticipate the future," Breska said. "A rhythm-based system is sensitive to periodic events in the world such as is inherent in speech and music. And an interval system provides a more general anticipatory ability, sensitive to temporal regularities even in the absence of a rhythmic signal. Our study identifies not only the anticipatory contexts in which these neurological patients are impaired, but also the contexts in which they have no difficulty, suggesting we could modify their environments to make it easier for them to interact with the world in face of their symptoms.”

In the near future, the researchers are that non-pharmaceutical interventions such as smartphone apps, deep brain stimulation, and brain-training video games could be utilized to treat patients with various neurological timing deficits. This knowledge could also be implemented by coaches to help athletes perfect there anticipatory timing on the playing field or tennis court.

====== 66 ========

7 FRUSTRATING SLEEP DISRUPTING SYMPTOMS OF DIABETES

Source: Deposit Photos

I see the connection between disordered sleep and diabetes all the time in my practice, as I work with patients who are coping with metabolic problems and sleep problems at the same time. Irregular sleep schedules and sleep disorders can increase risks for diabetes—and they also make managing the disease more difficult.

We’ve looked at the underlying ways that sleep contributes to diabetes—now let’s take a closer look at the specific sleep disorders that influence the condition, and the diabetes symptoms that can interfere with sleep.

The Obstructive Sleep Apnea-Diabetes connection

Before we look at the broader range of sleep issues and sleep disorders that occur with diabetes, I want to discuss the relationship between diabetes and obstructive sleep apnea. It’s an important one, because of how often the two conditions occur together. OSA is the most common in people with diabetes. As research has shown, a majority of people with diabetes—as many as 86 percent—also have obstructive sleep apnea. People with diabetes are at increased risk for OSA and people with OSA are at higher risk for diabetes.

The relationship between OSA and diabetes is complex, and scientists are still working to understand how the two conditions affect one another. But it’s clear that obesity plays an important role in both sleep apnea and diabetes. Being overweight or obese is a primary risk factor for both conditions. Estimates suggest approximately 70 percent of people with OSA are obese, and 90 percent of people with diabetes are overweight or obese.

Here’s a quick review of OSA: Obstructive sleep apnea is a condition characterized by periods of decreased or interrupted breathing during sleep. In people with OSA, the airway becomes partially or fully blocked, temporarily off airflow. OSA is harmful to both sleep quality and sleep quantity. People with OSA experience highly fragmented and restless sleep, awakening frequently because of their compromised breathing. They spend more time in the lighter stages of sleep, and less time in deep, restorative sleep stages. And they often sleep less overall. In addition to a higher risk for type 2 diabetes, people with OSA are also at greater risk for cardiovascular problems, including high blood pressure.

Scientists have yet to determine that OSA causes diabetes. But a growing body of evidence points to OSA as one possible cause.

Research shows sleep fragmentation (aka restless or broken sleep) like that experienced by people with sleep apnea, decreases insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance, and elevates levels of cortisol, a hormone that interferes with the ability of cells to use insulin effectively.

The periodic interruptions in breathing (called hypoxia)—that can occur in OSA also decrease insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism.

Those interruptions in breathing have also been shown to have negative effects on the normal daily rhythms of blood glucose, and to damage the cells of the pancreas, which produces and releases insulin.

CPAP, or continuous positive airway pressure, is the primary treatment for OSA. CPAP is a small air compressor that blows air through a tube and a mask on your face while you sleep, to keep your airway open. Several studies have shown CPAP can also improve insulin sensitivity in people with diabetes. The science is mixed here, but it does point to insulin and glucose-related benefits from CPAP in people who have severe OSA, and in people who use CPAP therapy very consistently. Getting patients to use CPAP routinely can be a problem, because let’s face it, who wants to sleep with a mask on their face?

It’s important for people with diabetes and prediabetes to be screened for OSA. Treating this sleep disorder may have significant benefits for controlling the disease, or for avoiding its development altogether. And people with OSA need to be aware of their increased risk for type 2 diabetes, and work with their physicians to address this risk.

Many people who have OSA don’t know they have it. The heightened risk for diabetes is another very good reason to pay attention for signs of disrupted breathing—snoring, gasping, and snorting—during sleep. If you (or your partner) shows these symptoms, or experiences excessive daytime tiredness, headaches, irritability and difficulty with , talk with your doctor about being screened for sleep apnea.

Insomnia and other sleep disorders are also linked to diabetes

Insomnia is another sleep disorder associated with diabetes. I think we haven’t seen enough research looking specifically at the relationship between insomnia and diabetes.

Insomnia can include several types of sleep disruption, including:

Trouble falling asleep

Difficulty staying sleep

Waking early

Waking unrefreshed

You don’t have to have all these symptoms at once to have insomnia. People with insomnia typically don’t get enough sleep, and especially when insomnia is chronic, they often have irregular sleep cycles that signal underlying disruptions to circadian rhythms.

As we’ve seen, lack of sleep, poor quality sleep, and circadian disruptions all appear to interfere with metabolic function, decrease insulin’s effectiveness and glucose balance, and raise risks for type 2 diabetes.

Insomnia also occurs alongside diabetes, whether because of the underlying metabolic dysfunction or because of diabetes symptoms—or both. There is some evidence that medications used to treat diabetes, including the drug Metformin, can contribute to insomnia. Insomnia, like other sleep disorders, often goes un-diagnosed, including in people with diabetes. If you have diabetes or prediabetes, it’s important to talk with your doctor about your sleep patterns, and be assessed for insomnia.

Restless Leg Syndrome is a sleep and neurological disorder that involves uncomfortable tingling and crawling sensations in the legs that trigger intense urges to move the legs. These sensations happen more often and intensely in the evening, when relaxing or trying to sleep. RLS makes it hard to fall asleep, causes fragmented sleep, and often results in shortened sleep times and significant daytime fatigue.

People with diabetes may be at higher risk of developing RLS. Recent research indicates that RLS occurs significantly more often in people with diabetes than in the general population. The relationship between RLS and diabetes is not yet clear. The increased incidence of RLS in people with diabetes may be a result of nerve damage (neuropathy) that occurs with diabetes. It may also involve other factors, including poorly controlled blood sugar, cardiovascular disease, obesity, or vitamin and mineral deficiencies.

When sleep problems are more serious, diabetes tends to be more severe and less well controlled. Sleep affects so many elements that influence the development and course of the disease, from to weight and eating habits, to mood, and immune function. Untreated sleep disorders can increase risk for diabetes—and they can also make the disease more complicated, serious, and difficult to treat.

People living with diabetes are more likely to experience disrupted sleep

Not everyone who has diabetes has trouble . But in my experience, most people with diabetes face pretty persistent challenges in sleeping well. They tend to struggle with a range of sleep problems, including:

Trouble falling asleep and staying asleep

Not sleeping enough

Difficulty sleeping on a regular schedule, with consistent bedtimes and wake times

A higher incidence of sleep disorders

Underlying causes of diabetes, including dysfunction (disruptions to your biological clock) and the disruption of metabolic hormones, may contribute to these sleep troubles. But the symptoms of diabetes themselves can also result in fragmented, restless, unrefreshing and insufficient sleep. People with diabetes can experience a range of sleep-disrupting symptoms, including:

Frequent urination: This is a common symptom of hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, that can occur during the day and at night. The need to urinate often at night is known as nocturnia. Needing to get up at night to use the bathroom causes fragmented sleep, reduces sleep amounts, and interrupts the natural flow of sleep through its individual stages and cycles.

Excessive thirst: Dehydration is a symptom of both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar. Being thirsty and dehydrated can make it harder to fall asleep and cause you to wake repeatedly throughout the night.

Headaches: Both high and low blood sugar can cause headaches that make it hard to fall asleep and stay asleep.

: Hunger is another symptom of both high and low blood sugar. It’s difficult to fall asleep hungry. And eating heavily before bed also disrupts sleep.

Sweating: This sign of low blood sugar can prevent you from falling asleep. Sweating also can interrupt your sleep during the night.

and Irritability: Low blood sugar can trigger anxiousness. Nighttime anxiety is a prime cause of insomnia and restless sleep. People with low blood sugar also may experience dizziness and heart palpitations—a racing or pounding heartbeat—that interfere with their ability to fall asleep.

Diabetic neuropathy: People with diabetes often suffer nerve damage. The most common form of diabetic neuropathy typically affects the feet and legs, and sometimes the hands and arms, creating pain, numbness, tingling, and extreme sensitivity to touch. Even the weight of a light blanket can trigger pain and discomfort. Different forms of neuropathycan have a wide range of effects on the body, including an inability to regulate body temperature, increased heart rate, and pain, that can make it hard to relax, get comfortable in bed, and sleep soundly.

Type 2 diabetes is most often thought of as a disease related to and exercise. There’s no question that poor diet and a sedentary lifestyle increase risk for diabetes. Even today, with all the evidence we have, sleep is overlooked as a risk factor. When assessing risk for developing diabetes, and when treating the disease, disordered sleep should be considered as seriously as a diet full of fatty, starchy and processed foods, or a lack of physical activity. If given the attention it deserves, sleep can be a powerful tool in helping avoid and improve diabetes.

Sweet ,

Michael J. Breus, PhD, DABSM

The Sleep Doctor™

www.thesleepdoctor.com

====== 67 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

November 17 - 23

It's the start of the holiday season, instead of madly consuming, try a little quiet reading with these essays. See what the experts have to say about the mental health of college students, the usefulness of regret, whether "our" universe was made for us, and more.

====== 68 ========

THE COLLEGE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS (UPDATE)

In 2014, I wrote a series on the college student mental health crisis, what may be causing it, and what we might be able to do about it. I receive more inquiries and requests for interviews about this topic than anything else. Because I have explored this issue in more depth, I decided the time was right for an update.

What, exactly, is the “college student mental crisis?” It refers to the fact that (a) significant numbers of college students experience mental health problems (between a quarter and a third at any given time), and (b) over the past 15 to 20 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the demand for mental health services on college campuses.

To give one example of the numbers we are talking about, last month a research report came out that found rates of “past year treatment" had risen from 19% in 2007 to 34% in 2017. In addition, students with lifetime diagnoses increased from 22% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. The trend lines in these categories had been moving up steadily through the 1990s. Here, then, is the nutshell summary of the crisis:

In the 1980s, at any given point, perhaps 1 in 10 college students could be readily characterized as needing/wanting/using some form of mental health treatment. Now that number is 1 in 3, with trend lines rising.

Here is the $64,000 question about these numbers: What is really going on? Are we seeing an “epidemic” of mental illness racing through the country? Or are we seeing a shift in attitudes, definitions, and the expectation of, availability of, and willingness to seek mental health treatment? My opinion is that the primary cause is a change in attitudes and use, with an important secondary cause being an actual increase in emotional fragility and distress (and thus an increase in and depressive conditions).

The first point is certainly true. That is, there have been major changes how people think about mental health and major increases in folks’ willingness to use mental health services. This attitude change is clearly one major reason for the difference. Some scholars argue that attitude change and a willingness to seek treatment is the only reason for the shift. In this interpretation of the crisis, people were suffering with mental illness in the 1980s and '90s at similar rates as they are now, but they were much less likely to talk about their problems openly and much more reluctant to seek treatment (perhaps because of stigma) or had less knowledge or access to do so.

Fellow PT blogger Todd Kashdan, a psychologist for whom I have much respect, recently made this case. He acknowledged that students are in some ways more sensitive and prone to anxiety, but argued against an epidemic of mental illness. He offered data from three sources that suggest that mental health problems have not gotten worse. For example, a major National Co-morbidity Study found that just about 30% of people surveyed between 1990-1992 had a mental health condition and almost the exact same percentage was found in those surveyed between 2000-2002. However, despite similar base rates, the numbers of folks who sought treatment had almost doubled in the same period. Ronald Pies has made a similar argument, namely that what has changed is treatment-seeking behavior, rather than actual levels of mental illness.

Although their arguments are important, the data they report are not the only data on this topic. I see a number of indicators that things have actually gotten worse, especially when we look at this generation and data in the last decade.

Some general population level data do suggest fairly stable trend lines (such as those reports offered by Kashdan and Pies). At the same time, there are some data suggesting general levels of well-being and happiness in the country as a whole are decreasing somewhat. It is clear that we are witnessing disturbing trends in some specific populations in the U.S. For example, we have definitely seen substantial increases in rates of suicide, substance misuse, and depression in certain demographics, such as middle age, lower-class whites.

Trend lines in adolescents and young adults also show evidence of increases in psychopathology. Jean Twenge has been tracking cohort data carefully and has found significant changes in stress, depression and anxiety. The NIMH has found an increase in the frequency of Major Depressive Disorder diagnoses in adolescents. The rate was 7.9% in 2006 and jumped to 12.8% in 2016. That is almost a 50% increase, based on good diagnostic assessments (not service utilization). The suicide rate for adolescents and young adults (per 100,000 people) also has seen a jump. It was 9.9 in 2006 and 13.5 in 2016. Again, about a 50% increase in the past decade. These are substantial changes and are not self-report or treatment-use data.

A similar pattern is found if we compare college student self-report data on feeling distress. The American College Health Association puts out an annual report based on large surveys of college students. I pulled scores from 2008 and compared them to scores in 2017 on feeling overwhelming anxiety, , , and ideation, both in the past two weeks and in the past year.

Source: Gregg Henriques

Source: Gregg Henriques

As depicted in these graphics, we see a substantial increase in rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and some increase in loneliness.

In sum, there are a number of data pointing to actual increases in rates of mental illness/distress. The strongest data point to this being a generational phenomenon with increases in children, adolescents and young adults emerging since the 2000s. I should comment here that this is not something that has to do with college students per se. That is, there is not much reason to suppose that college students would be worse off in terms of mental health than those who don’t go to college.

The take-home message is this: The college student mental health crisis refers to the massive increase in treatment-seeking in college students. Whereas perhaps 10% were self-identified and seeking treatment in the 1980s, now approximately 33% are. This massive rise is likely a function of both more accepting attitudes about reporting distress and seeking and receiving treatment, and actual increases in , anxiety, and depression and other related problems.

There are no signs of this abating. Indeed, when I spoke about the trend with Dr. David Onestak, the Director of the Counseling Center at James Madison University, he made the point that we should no longer call it a "crisis" because it has been going on for more than a decade and does not appear to be slowing down. Rather, this distressing state of affairs seems to be the “new normal.”

My next post will be on why things have changed and will offer some resources for what we should be doing about it.

====== 69 ========

WHAT TO DO WITH FEELINGS OF REGRET

One of the most frequently experienced emotions is regret. Feelings of regret can stem from looking back on past behaviors and decisions and believing that a better outcome may have occurred if a different choice was made. Topics that seem to elicit the most regret are , , romance, , self, and leisure (Newall, Chipperfield, Daniels, Hladkyj, & Perry, 2009; Roese & Summerville, 2005).

When having regret, a person can experience emotional, , and neurophysiological effects. Regret is often accompanied by other negative emotions such as , disappointment, self-blame, and frustration. In addition, people frequently engage in cognitive exercises trying to understand why they made a poor decision or acted as they did, and what other choices they could have made to reap a better outcome. Moreover, regret activates certain areas of the cortex region of the (viz., lateral orbitofrontal, dorsomedial prefrontal).

Researchers differ as to what stimulates regret. Some argue that “opportunity breeds” regret—meaning that regret is strongest under conditions when a “correction” action exists (the “opportunity principle”). For example, many people experience regret over the extent of their education; yet, the opportunity to rectify this “deficit” remains open for most people. It is the availability that spurs regret.

An argument for supporting the “opportunity principle” is that there are few rationalizations that can effectively diminish the “stewing” of regret because actions that can address it are still accessible. Under this theory, feelings of regret will continue until a corrective action is taken (Roese & Summerville, 2005).

Other researchers, however, believe that feelings of regret are more likely to occur and more prominent under situations when there is no opportunity to rectify the decision or action (Beike, Markman, & Karadogan, 2009). That is, the opportunity that existed before and was not taken advantage of is now lost. It can be argued that age is a factor which can affect available opportunities. Theoretically, education can be obtained at any age; however, it is not as easy for older aged individuals. Similarly, finding romance late in life is more difficult than when one is younger, and the field is more open.

Excuses can be of little help in assuaging the pain of regret when little to no opportunity exists to correct the person’s poor decision or behavior (e.g., because of time or scarce resources). People may berate themselves for letting an opportunity pass by that cannot be obtained later.

Regret can be an aversive emotion impacting life-satisfaction. However, if regret is confronted appropriately, it can have a positive effect. Regret can lead to a retrospective analysis that may help people understand the reason why they thought or acted as they did. At that time, there may have been a specific reason. By making sense of their past thoughts or actions, individuals may:

Feel less pain, remorse, and self-condemnation.

Change their thoughts and behavior to that which will now lead to a desired outcome.

Learn from their mistakes and incorporate this into their subsequent decisions and actions.

More specifically, what can people do to accentuate the positive and reduce the negative effects of regret? Newall et al., (2009) and Bjälkebring, Västfjäll, Svenson, & Slovic (2016) offer some of the following suggestions:

Do not let feelings of regret “eat you up" Engage in and do not allow regret to become overwhelming If necessary, suppress the feelings

Do not repeat in your mind “if only” thinking Accept what happened and come to terms with it Accept that there are some instances or events that are out of your control Accept that no life can be lived without regrets

Do not exaggerate personal responsibility and harbor great self-blame

Forecast regret By preparing yourself, it may lessen the surprise and pain

Look for the benefits that derive from regret. How did it encourage you to Better understand yourself Make yourself a better person

Overcome feelings of regret by doing reparative actions Apologize to those you hurt Do not procrastinate in correcting your poor judgment or action Consider opportunities more fully and take advantage of those you might otherwise have let slip by

Instead of focusing on the negative outcomes of regret, be more mindful of how regret has stimulated Learning from experience Growth and positive changes in you



Regret is an emotional mechanism. If one ruminates on lost opportunities, then regret becomes maladaptive and can stymie growth. On the other hand, if regret reminds us that our time is short and that opportunities may be transitory, it helps us strive for a life well-lived.

====== 70 ========

A UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? STATISTICS AND THE MULTIVERSE

In parts one and two of this four-part series, I looked at the vexed question of whether the universe was somehow – and by Someone – fine-tuned for us. There may not be a genuine, no-nonsense, unequivocal answer, but there is much to be learned by merging statistics, logic, and common sense, especially when it comes to the difference between probabilities before and after an event, and much head-scratching occasioned by the multiverse hypothesis.

For example, philosopher Niall Shanks asks us to imagine shuffling a deck of cards and then dealing them out, face down. What is the likelihood that someone could predict the entire sequence, in advance, and without any hanky-panky? The chance of getting the first card correct is 1 in 52. The chance of getting the first two cards correct is 1/52 x 1/51 = 1/2652, and so on, so that the probability of guessing the entire deck in the proper order is 1/52!. (The notation "!” in mathematics is described as “factorial,” with 52! = 52 x 51 x 50 ... x 1.) This is an unimaginably small number, something like one in ten followed by 60 zeros. And yet, it is also true that the chance of the cards having been dealt in the order that actually occurred is 100 percent. They had to come out some way, and among the near-infinite number of possibilities, one in particular actually emerged. Is that astounding? Yes, if you concern yourself with the chance of that precise outcome before it happened. But no, if you look at the post-hoc outcome, knowing that it had to be one way or another.

Alternatively, consider the probabilities before versus after a simple physical event, such as the position of a golf ball before versus after a golfer hits it. It would take a near-miracle to identify, in advance, the precise eventual location of that ball. But the outcome – wherever the ball ends up – isn’t miraculous at all, nor is it evidence of divine intervention or of the golf course having been designed so as to arrange that particular eventual placement of the ball since it had to be somewhere. Even though any one specific location is extraordinarily unlikely, it is even less likely that the ball would have disappeared entirely, or had it landed atop the flat head of a hippo. For us to marvel at the fact of our existing (in a universe that permits that existence) is comparable to a golf ball being astounded at the fact that it ended up someplace.

There are many ways to interpret what might be called the unexpectedness of our existence, none of which necessarily supports the claim that we must attribute that existence to particular pre-planning, by the cosmos and for us. Every person exists because a particular egg (one out of roughly 500 ovulated by his or her mother over the latter's lifetime) encountered a particular sperm (one out of roughly 150 million produced by his or her father in a single ejaculation). Every member of the human population – roughly 7.5 billion – can, therefore, insist that his or her existence was fore-ordained, evidence of a kind of me-thropic principle.

For a more wide-ranging example, the Chicxulub asteroid crashed into what is today Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula 66 million years ago, eventually wiping out the dinosaurs and clearing a path for the rise of mammals and eventually, us. Without that impact and the ecological niches that were opened up by the demise of those previously dominant dinosaurs, it is extremely unlikely that our species would ever have evolved. Had things proceeded differently, the prospect is vanishingly smaller yet that I would be writing this blog, or that you would be reading it.

Should we therefore see the Chicxulub impact as further evidence that our planet was fine-tuned, with my writing and your reading in mind? And that the dinosaurs’ destruction was mere collateral damage en route to the ultimate goal of creating Homo sapiens roughly 65 million years later? If so, then we are responsible for that asteroid and were it not for the universe’s goal of producing us, T. rex and company would still be around. Mazel tov! We really are important!

Physics has additional possible explanations for what masquerades as cosmic fine-tuning. Of these, one of the more intriguing (albeit difficult to grasp) is the possibility of “multiverses,” which revisits the question of probabilities before versus after an event, albeit in somewhat different guise. Here is astrophysicist Martin Rees:

"There may be many “universes” of which ours is just one. In the others, some laws and physical constants would be different. But our universe would not be just a random one. It would belong to an unusual subset that offered a habitat conducive to the emergence of complexity and consciousness. The analogy of the watchmaker would be off the mark. Instead, the cosmos may have something in common with an off-the-rack clothes shop: if the shop has a large stock, we are not surprised to find one suit that fits. Likewise, if our universe is selected from a multiverse, its seemingly designed or fine-tuned features would not be surprising.[i]."

Under the multiverse hypothesis, there is not only a potentially infinite number of universes, but the basic physical laws and constants might well vary across them. It is a radically difficult concept, but perhaps no weirder than basic quantum mechanics, which we now know to be valid. It was recently reported that there are something like two trillion galaxies in the currently known universe, which is about 20 times more than had previously been thought.[ii] Each galaxy consists of millions – in some cases, billions – of stars, many of which have their own planets. And although it appears that the fundamental physical constants hold across the known galaxies, the mere fact that there are so many (the overwhelming majority of which are not in any meaningful sense “known”) opens the possibility that our Earthly experience may be a small subset of the possible – even without introducing the prospect of multiple universes.

Niall Shanks suggests that the multiverse hypothesis “does to the anthropic universe what Copernicus’s heliocentric hypothesis did to the cosmological vision of the Earth as a fixed center of the universe.”[iii] Now, post-Copernicus (and Kepler, Galileo and others), the Earth is known to be just one planet among many, in one galaxy among many. Perhaps we’re just the occupants of one universe among many. Interestingly, even as he demoted the Earth, Copernicus himself placed the Sun in the center of the universe, just as he assumed that planetary orbits were perfect circles, an assumption that was widespread in early astronomy, based on the notion that the “heavenly bodies” are necessarily perfect, just as, in their geometry, circles are perfect. Galileo, too, assumed that planetary orbits were circular; it wasn’t until Kepler – using data from the aforementioned Tycho Brahe - that astronomers recognized they are elliptical. The cosmos, like the human body, is far from perfect. But like the human body and the bodies of all other organisms, it is good enough to have permitted us and them to exist.

In my next and final post on the question of whether the universe is anthropic, we’ll take a look at quantum weirdness, along with other weirdnesses.

David P. Barash is professor of psychology emeritus at the University of Washington. His most recent book relevant to this topic is Through a Glass Brightly: using science to see our species as we really are (2018, Oxford University Press).

[i] Martin Rees. 2001. Our Cosmic Habitat. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[ii] .com/news/universe-has-ten-times-more-galaxies-than-researchers-thought-1.20809

[iii] Niall Shanks. 2004. God, the Devil, and Darwin. New York: Oxford University Press.

====== 71 ========

HOW MANY FACES DO YOU KNOW?

Source: TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock

Throughout our lives, we commit faces to . We can recall classmates from elementary school, neighbors who share our morning commute, and the actors in our favorite television shows. But how many of those faces are stashed in a permanent mental repository?

Researchers at the University of York sought to pin down that number—estimating that people know an average of 5,000 faces. And that figure simply represents the number of faces we might know, not the number we are capable of knowing.

“We may not have an upper limit for face learning,” says Rob Jenkins, the lead author of the study, which was published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The thousands of faces we commit to memory may only be the tip of the iceberg for this mental capacity.

Jenkins and his colleagues asked 25 participants, between 18 and 61 years old, to list people whose faces they would clearly recognize. The researchers helped by providing prompts to consider specific social niches, such as colleagues, of family, and retail staff. Participants also listed every famous figure they would recognize.

Next, the investigators showed participants a slideshow of famous faces and calculated a ratio based on the number of faces they recognized in the lineup and the number of famous faces they had initially said they would recognize. (This was not done with non-famous faces, since it wasn’t feasible to collect photos of them.) Applying that ratio to participants' self-generated lists of both famous and non-famous faces allowed the researchers to arrive at a final estimate.

The concluded that on average, participants’ minds held an inventory of roughly 5,000 faces. The capacity differed greatly between participants, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. That variation may be due in part to the in which someone was raised—a rural or urban area, for example—as well as their level of exposure, Jenkins speculates.

As humans transitioned from living in small, tight-knit communities to a large, interconnected world, the ability for facial learning appears to be up to the task. “It seems that if you’re building equipment that allows you to differentiate between a couple of hundred individuals, in doing that you’re building apparatus that’s also good for several thousand,” Jenkins says. “Maybe you can’t achieve the former aim without incidentally gaining the additional capacity we use now.”

The collection of faces we know is impressive given that learning a new face requires observing and internalizing the same visage with various expressions, at different ages, and in assorted contexts. A face can look different when its owner puts on makeup, gets a haircut, ages five years, or appears in a darkened restaurant rather than a brightly lit room. “The key to learning each face is learning the person’s variability,” Jenkins says. “You have to be exposed to the way the face changes.” (Importantly, people generally tend to be poor at remembering faces they encountered only briefly, he says. That deficit becomes exceedingly important in legal or forensic situations, such as during eyewitness testimony.)

Identifying how many faces people recognize—and how those faces become familiar—is relevant for deficits of face perception, says Wilma Bainbridge, a post-doctoral researcher at the National Institute of Mental who studies the perception and memorability of images. For example, she suggests, face vocabulary could potentially be used as a marker of perceptual decline in the course of Alzheimer’s disease.

The also possesses a strong capacity for object memory, yet evidence suggests that faces require a unique form of processing, Bainbridge says. Humans are drawn to the geometry of faces from an early age: Research demonstrates that infants show a preference for an image of two dots above a third (which more closely mimics a face) compared to two dots below a third. Faces are also visually potent; another study found that photographs with faces were more memorable than those without faces, as measured by a computer game asking participants whether they had seen a given image before.

Evolutionary adaptiveness can help explain humans’ skill for face memory in particular. Faces that embody more emotion or threat are especially enduring, Bainbridge says. “It may be less important to know a familiar or unfamiliar place, because you can take time to explore,” Bainbridge says. “But it could be really important to pick out your friends and your enemies.”

====== 72 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

Source: Pixabay

When I give talks demonstrating that we all have innate psychological predispositions – traits that influence our behavior across our lifetimes – I often get asked what implications this has for . If our behaviors are affected in some way by our genes or by the way our brains are wired, doesn’t that mean that we’re really not that free after all?

The answer depends, I think, on the kind of free will you’re after and on an of the mechanisms by which we make choices. And let me say at the outset that we do make choices. The idea that has somehow done away with free will altogether or proven that it is an illusion is nonsense. All neuroscience has shown is that when you are making decisions, things are happening in your brain.

This is, to put it mildly, not a surprise: Where else would things be happening? And it really has no implications for free will, unless you are a dualist. If you think of the mind as some kind of object that has existence independent of the brain, then I suppose you might be upset to find that your decisions have a physical basis in brain activity. But if you think of “mind” not as an object but as an activity or process – the brain in action – then, well, seeing the brain in action as you make a decision is just what you’d expect.

So, yes, we make choices – really, really. But how free are those choices? How much are they constrained by other things over which we really have no control? How much are they affected by antecedent causes?

In particular, if I have some psychological traits over which I had (and continue to have) no control, and those traits influence my behavior (or at least my behavioral tendencies) then am I really fully in control of my own actions? If someone asks me to a party and I decide not to go, is that because I’m wired to be shy? Perhaps I could have chosen to go, and maybe sometimes I do, but maybe only because I happen to be in a sociable mood or feeling brave that day, and maybe I am not in control of that either.

Well, the first thing to say is that this problem arises no matter the origin of our psychological traits. In my book INNATE, I present the evidence that variation in and in the processes of brain development lead to innate psychological differences between people, which affect the trajectory of their lives, influencing their experiences, the way they react to them, and the types of habitual behaviors they develop. But if you’d rather believe—in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence—that all such traits come completely from experience instead, the problem is just as acute.

If we each have real and stable characteristics of temperament and , then it doesn’t really matter for this question of free will whether they came from genetics and brain development, or our experiences and . In either situation, some antecedent causes have affected the physical structures of our brains in a way that influences our decisions, right now, at this moment. In which case, you could argue, that our will is not so free after all.

In one sense, this is trivial – our decisions, in any given situation, are of course affected by our prior experiences and our current . The whole point of having a brain is that it lets you learn from the results of actions you have taken in the past in various types of scenarios. That information is then used to predict the outcomes of a range of possible actions that could be taken when such a scenario is encountered again.

I don’t think anyone sees that as undermining our free will – indeed, you could say that choosing between those options, based on what we have learned of the world, in order to further our own goals, is the process of free will in action.

It is the idea that the options open to us are constrained somehow by our underlying psychological predispositions that seems to threaten our freedom.

And this does seem to be the case. In the first instance, the range of options that even occur to us – that somehow arise in our brains for consideration – is limited by our personality traits and experiences. Two different people in ostensibly the same situation, with the same primary goal, may nevertheless be choosing from a very different set of possible actions. This is because the interplay of their underlying traits and their experiences across their lives will have created a very different set of additional goals, constraints, and heuristics.

For example, two people in a meeting may share a goal of advancing their ideas on some topic under discussion. But one of them may have a conflicting goal – avoid social at all costs. This may be due to a natural inclination towards , reinforced by a lifetime of experience, where social interaction is not as intrinsically rewarding as it is for other people, and where the subjective feeling of embarrassment is more acutely felt.

Even if it is not consciously perceived, that goal of avoiding embarrassment may act as a powerful constraint on the person’s behavior. They may come home and complain to their partner how they’d wished they’d been brave enough to speak up – instead, stupid Gary who never shuts up dominated the meeting as usual and ended up getting his way. “I wish I had more !”, they might say, conceding that their conscious desires were somehow thwarted by their underlying psychological make-up. ]

The decider-in-chief

This seems to be the type of thing people are worrying about when confronted with the evidence that we really do have lasting psychological traits that influence our behavior. And this worry appears to be more keenly felt when such traits are shown to have a physical basis in the way our brains are wired. It seems to threaten the primacy of our conscious selves in the process.

Perhaps we’re like a puppet president – making “decisions” about what to do, but only from the highly limited set of options presented to us by the generals and civil servants – limited based on criteria we are never aware of. Or maybe we’re not even really making the decisions at all – perhaps even that stage of the process is dominated by factors. Maybe we’re like a magician’s stooge, impelled to make certain decisions through influences beyond our apprehension, with only an illusion of control.

Personally, I think this goes too far. It can certainly be demonstrated that many of the decisions we make are affected by things of which we are not aware. That does not mean that all the decisions we make are like that. Even if we’re on autopilot most of the time, that doesn’t mean we can’t ever take the controls. And anyway, being on cognitive autopilot most of the time is not necessarily a bad thing – quite the opposite, in fact.

The last thing we would want is to have to make decisions from first principles every time we are doing something. If we had to consciously weigh up every aspect of every decision in every situation we find ourselves in we’d be paralyzed by indecision. And we’d quickly be some other critter’s lunch. Life comes at you fast: Vacillate and die.

Habits and heuristics

Instead, most of our behavior is effectively habitual. We learn from experience over our lifetimes that certain behaviors are profitable or appropriate in certain situations – these are the heuristics that subconsciously guide most of our actions. And our behavior is even shaped by our ancestor’s experiences, in the sense that we have inherited a suite of genetically determined behavioral tendencies that were adaptive in the environments and scenarios that our ancestors tended to find themselves in in the past.

Now, some people argue that if we can’t make decisions that are completely divorced from any preceding events, effects, or causes, that we are not really completely free at all. But why would we want to do that? Totally free decisions, uninformed by any prior events, would be essentially random and pointless (and highly likely to get you killed sooner or later).

Being free – to my mind at least – doesn’t mean making decisions for no reasons, it means making them for your reasons. Indeed, I would argue that this is exactly what is required to allow any kind of continuity of the self. If you were just doing things on a whim all the time, what would it mean to be you? We accrue our habits and beliefs and intentions and goals over our lifetime, and they collectively affect how actions are suggested and evaluated.

Whether we are conscious of that is another question. Most of our reasons for doing things are tacit and implicit – they’ve been wired into our nervous systems without our even being aware of them. But they’re still part of us ­– you could argue they’re precisely what makes us us. Even if most of that decision-making happens subconsciously, it’s still you doing it.

Ultimately, whether you think you have free will or not may depend less on the definition of “free will” and more on the definition of “you." If you identify just as the president – the decider-in-chief – then maybe you’ll be dismayed at how little control you seem to have or how rarely you really exercise it. (Not never, but maybe less often than your ego might like to think).

But that brings us back to a very dualist position, identifying you with only your conscious mind, as if it can somehow be separated from all the underlying workings of your brain. Perhaps it’s more appropriate to think that you really comprise all of the machinery of , even the bits that the president never sees or is not even aware exists.

That machinery is shaped by our shared evolutionary past, by each individual’s genetic heritage, by the particular trajectories of development of their brain, and by their accumulated experiences over their lifetime. Those things all shape the way we tend to behave in any given circumstance. That doesn’t mean we can never exercise deliberative and conscious control over our decisions – just that most of the time we don’t (in part because most of the time we don’t need to).

Can we choose not to be a certain way? No, probably not. But can we choose to act in a certain way despite having opposing tendencies – yes, absolutely, in some circumstances at least. This may be effortful – it may require habits of introspection and a high degree of self-awareness and – but it can clearly be done. In fact, one of the strongest pieces of evidence that we really do have free will is that some people seem to have more of it than others.

====== 73 ========

HOW SCHOOLS THWART PASSIONS

This post is a somewhat modified version of the transcript of a TEDx talk I delivered in May, 2018.

Follow your passions. That’s what almost every commencement speaker says to the new graduates. It’s almost cruel. If all you’ve been doing is school and school-like stuff, how do you have any idea what your passions might be or how to follow them? To find and follow your passions you need lots of time and freedom to play. Play, almost by definition, IS following your passions. But we’ve pretty much removed play from young people’s lives.

Source: Max Pixel. Creative Commons

Over the past several decades we’ve continuously increased the amount of time that children spend at school, and at schoolwork at home, and at school-like activities outside of school. We’ve turned into a time of résumé building. You don’t build passions by building a résumé, trying to impress other people. You build passions by doing what you , regardless of what others think. It’s no surprise that people who are famous for their passionate achievements have often declared their dislike or even hatred of school. For quotes about schooling from 50 such people, see here.

Wounded by School

Some years ago, Kirsten Olson, who was then a Harvard graduate student, began to conduct research on the ways that highly successful people were inspired by their experiences at school. She hoped to document how passions were kindled by school. But her early findings led her to turn that thesis around by 180 degrees. The book that eventually came out of that work is entitled Wounded by School. [For my review of the book, see here.] Here is quotation from the book’s forward, written by her thesis advisor Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot: "In her first foray into the field--in-depth interviews with an award-winning architect, a distinguished professor, a writer, a executive--Olson expected to hear stories of joyful and productive learning…. Instead, she discovered the shadows of pain, disappointment, even in their vivid recollections of schooling. Instead of the light she expected, she found darkness.And their stories did not merely refer to old wounds now healed; they recalled deeply embedded wounds that still bruised and ached, wounds that still compromised and distorted their sense of themselves as persons and professionals."

Since the time when Olson’s respondents would have been in school, school has become even more oppressive. Recess has been reduced or removed. Creative activities have been largely removed from the curriculum. Homework has been increased. All in the name of improving scores on multiple-choice, one-right-answer standardized tests. The results of all this are not surprising. Research has shown that over these same decades, creative thinking has declined at all grade levels (here); and , , and among young people have increased (here and here). A 2014 survey by the American Psychological Association found that were the most people in America, and 83% of them attributed their stress to school (here). These are not conditions that promote the development of passionate interests.

My brother Fred

Now I’m going to switch to something happier, and tell you about my youngest brother Fred Carlson. His last name is different from mine because he has a different father. Fred is 12 years younger than me, so he started 1st grade in public school the same year I started college. He lasted there through 4th grade. Around that time my mother became something of a hippie and moved onto a Vermont commune with my younger brothers. Fred left public school then and attended a little free school, which my mother helped to start. The school had no imposed curriculum and he could do there whatever he wished.

That school wasn’t certified as a high school, however, so, at age 14, he enrolled in 9th grade at the local public school. On his second day there the principal told him, “We don’t like you hippie types around here.” So he left and never went back. Then, with no school, he hung around the commune for a couple of years and helped to build a house. He got interested in wood and carpentry. He also got interested in music and learned to play guitar and banjo.

When he was 16 he enrolled in a publicly supported program designed for high-school dropouts. The guy who ran the program asked him what he’d like to do, and he said, “I’d like to build a banjo.” Nobody there knew anything about instrument building, but the head of the program helped Fred find a local person, a guy named Ken, who had a woodworking shop and knew just a little about banjo building. And so, with Ken’s help, Fred built a banjo. After that, Fred used the small sum of money that his father had saved for his to take a 6-week course at a guitar-building school and to purchase the equipment he needed to set up his own shop. The rest is history.

Source: Fred Carlson, Beyond the Trees

By the time Fred was 21 years old, one of his beautiful guitars was on display at the Smithsonian Museum. Ever since then he’s continued to make one instrument after another, each one different from any of the others; each one a new invention. He is famous among luthiers for his artistry, , and craftsmanship. (For one example, see the inserted photo; for other examples, see here.) Fred believes, and so do I, that if he had stayed in school he would never have found his passion.

Self-Directed Education as the Pursuit of Passions

I’ve spent part of my academic researching the outcomes of Self-Directed Education—that is, outcomes for people who did not go to a curriculum-based school, but, instead, educated themselves by pursuing their own interests. These include, many years ago, a study of the graduates of the Sudbury Valley School, in Massachusetts, where students, from age 4 on through late teenage years, are free all day to pursue their own interests; and, more recently, a study of grown unschoolers (see here and here). Unschoolers are people who for legal purposes are homeschoolers, but are not bound by a curriculum and are continuously free to pursue their own interests. The most interesting finding, for our concern now, is that a high percentage of these young adults were pursuing careers that were direct extensions of passionate interests they had developed as children in play. Here are a few examples:

A girl who loved to play with boats went on, as a teenager, to apprentice herself to a ship captain and then became captain, herself, of a cruise ship.

Another young girl played with dolls, as many girls do. Then she started making doll clothes; then clothes for herself and her . At the time of our study she was head of a pattern-making department in the high-fashion dress industry.

A boy was passionate about all kinds of constructive play. He would make whole villages and factories, to scale, out of modeling clay. As a teenager he’d hang around local garages and learn about automobile mechanics by asking and watching. At the time of the study he was a much sought-after machinist and inventor.

Another child fell in love with science fiction. Through that he discovered mathematics and became passionate about it. He went on to become a math professor.

Still another was obsessed with computers as a teenager. At the time of the study he was 22 years old and founder and head of a very successful software development company

A girl fell in love with circuses when she was 3 years old and began training to become a performer at age 5. By the time she was a teenager she was performing professionally as a trapeze artist, and from age 19-24 she and her best friend founded and ran their own contemporary circus company.

A boy became passionate about making YouTube vides with friends at age 11. In his teens he began to study filmmaking. His experience and passion led him to be hired, at age 18, as production assistant by a major film company. At age 20, at the time of the survey, he was working with a famous director in Los Angeles on the production of a major film.

A boy by age 15 was pursuing three passionate interests—wilderness hiking, paragliding, and photography. At age 21, at the time of the survey, he was successfully pursuing a career as an aerial wilderness photographer, combining all three of his passions.

A girl who had previously been in a traditional school revolted, at age 13, and left school never to return. She then developed passionate interests in art, revolutions, and wildlife. At the time of the survey, at age 28, she was a full-time Greenpeace activist, fundraiser, and manager.

Source: Molly and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack MacDonald, with permission

Source: Marley and Akilah Richards, with permission

These are just some of the many examples documented in my research. All of these people were able to discover and pursue their passions because they had left, or had never enrolled in, a curriculum-based school.

More recently I asked some of my unschooling friends about their young children’s passions. Here are three examples of what I learned:

Kerry McDonald’s daughter Molly has several passionate interests, one of which is baking. When someone asked her, when she was 9 or 10 years old, what she wanted to be when she grew up, she replied: “A baker, but I already am one." One thing I’ve learned is that people on the Self-Directed Education path don’t divide life into a period of preparing for the future followed by a period of living that future. They don’t distinguish between learning and living or learning and doing. That’s true when they are children and it’s still true when they are adults.

Molly’s younger brother Jack is heavily into photography. He particularly admires and emulates the work of the famous landscape photographer Ansel Adams. I’ve attached one of Jack’s artistic photographs, called “reflections.”

Akilah Richards’s daughter Marley has a beautiful voice and is deeply into voice acting. By age 13 she already had gigs providing the voice for animations and fan fiction audios. Her voice acting has also led her to learn Japanese, because some of the works she most enjoys were produced in Japan. By age 14 she was tutoring another young person in Japanese.

The great advantage that these young people have in life is this: They are not going to school.

So, How Does School Thwart Passions?

It’s almost too obvious. Schools thwart passions by:

Requiring everyone to do the same things at the same time. It’s not possible for all the children in a room to be passionately interested in the same thing at the same time. Replacing intrinsic with extrinsic motivators, such as grades and trophies. To pursue a passion you have to focus on what YOU want to do, not try to impress others or win honors. Threatening students with failure or , which generates . Fear freezes the mind into rigid ways of thinking and negates the possibility of passionate interest. Teaching that there is one right answer to every question, or one right way to do what you are supposed to do. That’s a surefire way to nip any possible emerging interest in the bud. Teaching children that learning is work and that play, at best, is just a break from learning. But anyone involved in a passionate interest knows that play and learning and work are one and the same.

So, in conclusion, if we want our children to grow up with passionate interests, we must find alternatives to school. Or, at least, we must reduce the role of school and school-like activities in their lives and increase greatly their opportunities to discover and do what they like to do—that is, to play.

What has been your experience with finding and pursuing a passionate interest? Are you one of the lucky ones whose career is a manifestation of passion and play? How did you discover that passion? This blog is in part a forum for discussion, so please share your comments, questions, and stories in the comments section below.

====== 74 ========

IS SOCIAL MEDIA PDA A SIGN OF HAPPINESS OR OVERCOMPENSATION?

Source: John Jones via flickr | CC0 License

We all know those people on social who are constantly posting information about their relationship. Sometimes, we might think, "Oh, that's sweet," if we know and like the couple. Other times, we might find ourselves rolling our eyes and thinking, "Stop showing off and overcompensating." So, are these couples actually happy and our eye-rolling is the function of or disbelief? Or are they really overcompensating?

People often are suspicious of those who share a lot of relationship information on social media. Research has shown that people dislike those who post over-the-top, affectionate social media messages about their partners. Yet, the majority of research actually shows that people who have a couple profile photo, are "Facebook official," or post about their relationship tend to be more satisfied with their relationships than those who do not engage in all this showing off. People are often surprised to hear this, as it goes against their intuitions about couples who frequently post about their relationships.

However, if you step back, it makes sense that happy couples post relationship content on social media. Imagine a couple that is in a committed, happy relationship. They are more likely to have linked profiles and to be a committed couple unit that might post a couple or family photo as a profile photo. They are likely to spend a lot of time together, spend holidays together, and take vacations together. If this couple is moderately active on social media, then they will share photos of social gatherings, holidays, and vacations, which will naturally include each other. So it shouldn't be surprising at all that these kinds of social media posts are associated with higher satisfaction and commitment. In my own research, conducted with two of my former undergraduate students, Amanda Havens and Dayana Petrenko, and Michael Langlais at University of Nebraska-Kearney, we wanted to address the discrepancy between two contradictory intuitions:

The notion (backed by research) that sharing one's relationship on social media is a sign of a happy and committed relationship. The notion that sharing one's relationship on social media implies trouble and may involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship.

In two studies, recently published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, we surveyed a total of 348 adult users about how they used Facebook in their . We asked them to rate how frequently they engaged in general displays of the relationship, such as posting photos or status updates about their relationship or partner. These questions were similar to the types of behaviors assessed in previous research. We also assessed what we called "excessive relationship displays," those that went beyond the kind of relationship displays that these individuals engage in offline. Specifically, we asked how often participants posted:

Potentially embarrassing information about their partner or relationship.

Content on their partner's wall that they would be uncomfortable to say in person.

Content that showed more affection than they normally show in public.

We found that excessive displays were much less common than general relationship displays. We also found that even though they were correlated with each other, the way they related to satisfaction was quite different. As past research has found, general relationship posts were associated with greater satisfaction. So people who have a couple profile photograph and post photos and statuses about their relationships tend to be more satisfied than those who infrequently engage in those behaviors. But excessive displays were associated with less satisfaction. So people who post relationship information that they deem as potentially embarrassing or that shows more affection than they are comfortable expressing in person were actually less satisfied.

In the second study, we also asked participants to rate the extent to which they felt that Facebook had made them feel closer to and more intimate with their partners. Once again, we saw a positive effect for general relationship displays. Those who posted more relationship information on Facebook felt that Facebook helped bring them closer to their partners. Overall, excessive displays were not related to these perceptions. However, for people who were especially low in relationship satisfaction, posting excessive displays was associated with perceptions that Facebook had brought them closer. This suggests that these types of over the top displays are being used to compensate for weaker relationships. First, those who are less satisfied may post Facebook content that shows levels of affection that they aren't displaying in their actual offline relationship. These individuals then believe that engaging in these types of posts has helped their relationship. It's not clear if it actually has this helpful effect on their relationships. It is possible it has no effect or is even harmful. We would need to follow people's relationships over the long-term and to find out how their partners react to their Facebook activity in order to understand the actual consequences of these posts.

These findings demonstrate the paradoxical of social media and its relation to feelings of social connection. In a series of studies published in 2011, Kennon Sheldon and colleagues found that frequent use of Facebook was associated with both feeling connected to others and also feeling disconnected from others. Their explanation for these seemingly contradictory findings is that Facebook can make people feel more connected to others, but it is also the case that those who are feeling disconnected may turn to Facebook to seek out social connections that they are lacking. Something similar may be happening in the case of romantic relationships. People who are less satisfied with their relationships may engage in excessive displays on social media in order to bring them closer to their partners, and social media displays may also help people feel closer to their partners.

Returning to the two competing intuitions raised at the beginning of this post: 1) Relationship posts are an indication of a happy relationship, or, 2) relationship posts involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship. Our research suggests that both are true. The types of displays that simply involve sharing photos and information about one's relationship may indicate higher levels of satisfaction. However, when someone's relationship displays on Facebook reflect more affection than they show offline, it is likely that they are in a less satisfying relationship.

====== 75 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

How do we make nudges work better, and for longer? By better characterizing the environment in which we want to improve the decisions people make.

====== 76 ========

WHY MANY WOMEN DON’T FEEL THANKFUL ON THANKSGIVING

Behind every beautiful thanksgiving dinner and touching family photograph lies hours and hours of hard labor, which probably was performed by a woman.

Now this is not true for every family. In some families, everyone contributes to planning, cleaning, cooking, and hosting. In other families, one person (often but not always a woman) does the bulk of the work but truly finds it a labor of . If one of those scenarios apply to you, or if you have a different way of celebrating (or not celebrating) the holiday that you enjoy, you might not find this post relevant.

However, if you are one of the many women who are overwhelmed and exhausted, and yet somehow have carved out the time to read this post, this one is for you.

To understand where we are today in terms of and the holidays, it’s helpful to think about the broader context of gender and (paid and unpaid) labor.

The US Department of Labor gathers data on who is working, how many hours, and where. In the 1960s, men and women actually worked about the same number of hours per week. However, men typically worked outside the home, and women typically worked inside the home. Since the 1960s, women have increased the number of hours that they work outside the home, and men have increased the number of hours that they work inside the home. However, the increases have not been at the same rate. The number of hours that women work outside the home has increased more than the number of hours that men work inside the home. This means that women are still doing more housework and childcare than men. This also means that the total number of hours worked per week (hours outside the home + hours inside the home) is greater for women then men. The difference is relatively small; women work about five hours more per week than men. Still, women would probably like those hours back. Across a month, this would add up to 20 hours that they could use however they wanted!

In fact, the data show that men typically devote their five extra hours each week to leisure. Like watching football on TV. Which brings us back to Thanksgiving…

With this in mind, it is not surprising that women do most of the work on Thanksgiving. They typically do most of the work at home, and the “traditional” of Thanksgiving probably exacerbates this. At Thanksgiving, people often want to do things like their did, and their grandparents did, which makes it even more likely that the work required to celebrate the holiday will fall to women.

Moreover, the extra work that women do is not limited to cooking and cleaning. Women also typically manage the social and emotional tone of the day. This is referred to as emotional labor. Sociologist Arlie Hochschlid coined this term in the context of the , but the term applies to the home as well. Examples include (but are not limited to): making sure that conservative Aunt Sally is not seated next to cousin Frank who’s studying at Berkley, getting all of the invitations out within a matter of minutes so that no one feels that they were invited last (and doing so without using social or texting because that would be tacky), and providing children with activities and entertainment that are neither boring nor overstimulating.

Is it really surprising, then, that many women do not feel all that on Thanksgiving? Sure, in the big picture they are thankful for their family and loved ones and the opportunity to be together. However, expecting a person who got up at 4am to stuff a cold turkey to be happy, relaxed, and feeling thankful at 4pm may not be realistic.

With that in mind, here are a few tips for the day.

1. Don’t pressure yourself to feel thankful. It’s ok not to feel all that thankful on Thanksgiving. Maybe you will feel thankful on a different, less hectic day instead. Mixed feelings also are allowed. Whatever you feel is valid and no one can take that away from you.

2. Make minor changes. If you typically do all of the heavy lifting on Thanksgiving, major changes are probably not going to happen in (literally) a day. However, delegate as much as you can, from setting the table to playing with small children so that they are not underfoot. You may think that asking for help with small things won’t make a difference, but it adds up.

3. Lay the groundwork for next year. If you want share responsibility for the holiday more equitably in the future, now is a good time to lay the groundwork. When people ask how you’re doing, it is ok to say that you are a little tired, stressed, etc. and that maybe next year you should not try to do it all yourself. Hopefully, this will plant a seed for change.

4. Plan a time just for you. Mark off at least an hour to do something that you want to after the celebration is over. Sitting down with a cup of tea or a glass of wine to read a book or enjoying a bubble bath are good choices. (Please note that your activity cannot be combined with something that you already planned to do for others, such as going for pedicures with your six nieces who range in age from preschool to high school). When things get hectic or stressful during the holiday, picture that moment when you will sit quietly with a book or slide into your bath.

5. Think about next year. When it is all over, spend some time thinking about what you would like to stay the same for next year and what you would like to change. Then, in the coming months, make time to talk honestly with others about this. Conversations about switching up who does what for the holidays will go more smoothly ahead of time than in the heat of the moment.

Time is getting short, and I should leave you now to bake pies and peel potatoes. To sign off, I will not say “Have a Happy Thanksgiving!!” to those of you feel stressed or overwhelmed. Instead, I will say that I hope that you can find some happy moments during your busy holiday. Good luck, ladies. And Godspeed!

Postscript: This post refers to how men and women spend their time on average, not to every man or woman. If you are a man, and are reading a Psychology Today post about how gender dynamics affect the division of labor on holidays, there is a good chance that you already are the type of guy who is doing his fair share preparing for the day. If that’s the case, make sure to get in on the tea, wine, or bubble bath when the day has come to an end….

====== 77 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

Source: D. Erdmann & D. Blankenstein, mit freudnlicher Genehmigung

You can’t go home again. —Thomas Wolfe

Yes, you can. —Homer (implied)

The trope of going native is familiar and poorly understood (Krueger, 2017). Some hipsters and other adolescents take a playful transitional approach, experimenting with garb or hairdos before returning to the square & normative. When going native becomes a deeper project, what does it do to a person’s ? How does he [bear with me on the choice of ] see himself and how do others see him? How do these perceptions differ between the members of his original and his adopted group?

Alexander von Humboldt, though “interested in everything” famously resisted going native, while is friend Bonpland, a French botanist, did. Humboldt returned to his ancestral Berlin; Bonpland settled in Argentina, growing crops and fathering children. Humboldt, here above chilling poolside in Mérida, inspired a series of conferences, which explore psychological, sociological, historical, and literary aspects of travel. I signed up to discuss Gonzalo Guerrero.

Source: J. Krueger

In the Yucatán peninsula, Gonzalo Guerrero is the archetype of going native. More myth than man, we can’t be sure that he existed, but this is not essential to this story. We do know that he looms large in the Yucatec imagination. According to the Spanish chroniclers of the late 16th Century, who are less than completely reliable, Gonzalo was cast away on the shore now known as the Mayan Riviera, before rising to prominence among a Mayan group in the Chetumal region. He led them in war against their neighbors and then again against Spanish intruders, and he fathered the first generation of mestizos. For Gonzalo, going native was a survival strategy. The legends that have grown up around him emphasize his martial prowess, and various statues depict him as a warrior. His Spanish family name having been lost, Gonzalo is now remembered as Gonzalo Guerrero, Gonzalo the Warrior. A painting by Fernando Castro Pacheco, displayed in the Palacio del Gobierno in Mérida, highlights a different aspect (see photo to the left). Here, Gonzalo is seen clutching his family and looking vulnerable. The play of light enhances him and his psychological tension. His family remains in the shadows, perhaps to remind us of essential differences. This painting is remarkable in its departure from the Gonzalo’s iconic statuary representation. In stone, Gonzalo presents as strong, defiant, and bearded, but otherwise fully Mayanized. In the painting, we get a glimpse of going-native as a process ridden with conflict.

Oddly, psychological science has little to say about the concept of going native. Where are the theories and empirical studies? Research is squarely focused on issues of immigration, assimilation, dual consciousness, and bi- or multi-culturalism. Important as these issues are, they fail to plumb the experience of those individuals who penetrate an alien culture, thereby risking to be radically transformed. Social psychology, as a , has a tradition of focusing on the experience of disempowered groups. This concern may have created a blind spot for the concept of going native because – hipsters aside – this concept is tied to European expansion, domination, and colonialism. It is here that those who go native swim against a most powerful historical current. The default perception is to see these anadromous adventurers as traitors and savages-by-choice. In the subcontinental Indian context, for example, Kipling warned such types to “never forget that one is a Sahib” (cited in White, 2010).

It may be difficult to think of specific historical examples of individuals gone native, but it seems safe to say that the concept has a foothold in the European imagination; it evokes images and possibilities both alluring and forbidden. With reliable historical data being scarce, a handful of literary treatments drive the dominant narrative. At the extremes, we find characters like the Earl of Greystoke, whose natives are not even human, or the demonic Colonel Walter Kurtz, who loses his mind (“The horror!”). In our time of industrial cultural production, the threat and of going native is occasionally resolved by a hero who becomes a native to save the natives. John Dunbar dances with wolves to save the Lakota, and the disabled anti-hero Jake Sully in James Cameron’s Avatar scores a triumphant victory over white industrial man (Krueger, 2010). He achieves this victory by going native more fully than anyone before. He is embodied as one. Hence the Avatar.

There is an instructive difference here. Dunbar returns to the white man’s world, presumably in yet another attempt to do good for the natives, whereas Sully’s mind is eventually made to reside in the Avatar in permanencia. Dunbar reconnects with ‘home,’ whereas Sully cuts all ties. Sully drinks up the cup of going native. Dunbar, in other words, leans on the mythology of the Odyssey, where the trials and tribulations of life are eventually rewarded with a hero’s return (Humboldt), whereas Sully chooses irrevocable immersion (Bonpland). Gonzalo though, if he existed, was the real Avatar. Flores (2012) notes both visual and psychological similarities. Both the Avatar and Gonzalo fight on the side of and the natives against European expansion and destruction. Gonzalo loses in the short term, but re-emerges as the Urvater (first father) of a new ; the Avatar wins in a Hollywoodian happy ending, which must come as a decisive victory of good over evil.

Across the types of Tarzan, Kurtz, Costner, and the Avatar, we encounter key elements of the European imagination: the fascination with nature, and creatures living in harmony with it. The desire to have what they have, and to take it from them by force. Then, there is the of being overwhelmed by nature and the natives, of not being able to cope with their very different world, and to either die or be swallowed up. This is a form of ego anxiety ( , 1965/1933). The emotional base of European supremacy is ambivalent (Ullrich & Krueger, 2010).

Returning to Gonzalo, we must concede that we know very little about him. One man who became obsessed with Gonzalo is Canadian Professor of English Robert Calder, who after decades of searching for Gonzalo wrote a wonderful book to introduce us to the legend and the few bits of evidence that have been handed down (Calder, 2017; see also Fray Diego de Landa’s, 1566, summary). Gonzalo is not a capitan, he is a marinero. His ship sinks in a storm (Odysseus), and he and some shipmates wash up on the Yucatec shore. The local Maya capture and eat most of them, but they save Gonzalo and a few others to be fattened first and eaten later. Gonzalo and a padre by the name of Jerónimo de Aguilar escape and wind up with a friendlier group of Maya down near Chetumal. They are still slaves, but they manage to build trust and obtain privileges.

The plot thickens when Gonzalo’s and Jerónimo’s strategies diverge. Gonzalo goes native, while Jerónimo holds on to as much of his Spanish identity as he can. To Jerónimo, Catholicism and the Crown remain anchors, while Gonzalo transforms his body with tattoos and piercings. He could shave his beard, but, like another Mexican icon of the blessed imagination – the most interesting man in the world – he chooses not to. To these Maya, Gonzalo’s martial skills make him more valuable alive than dead. Nachán Ka’an, the cacique, uses him against his neighbors and later against the Spanish. Jerónimo has a harder time. He bets on total submission. One of his strategies is to convince his captors that he will not bother their women. They test his will by sending a beautiful girl to tempt him; Jerónimo resists – or so he says. As Gonzalo earns the chief’s trust, he is eventually made a captain (Nakom) to lead warriors, and given the hand of the chief’s daughter, Zazil Há. Gonzalo makes war and . From a sociological standpoint, his assimilation is now complete. He has gone fully native. From a psychological standpoint, certain questions remain. How has his identity, his self-conception changed? Can we even know?

Jerónimo is our only source, and perhaps he made it all up. When Cortés lands in the Yucatán, Jerónimo tells him that there is another Spaniard in the selva. Cortés tells Jerónimo to fetch him, and Jerónimo goes and pleads with Gonzalo to return to the Spanish banner. Gonzalo declines, pointing to his commitments, some of which (e.g., his tattoos, his family) are irreversible. Conceivably, Gonzalo is making a rational decision, judging correctly that he would not be able to function again in the Spanish context. He realizes perhaps that he who has gone native will be viewed with suspicion upon return. Gonzalo cannot go back because his transformed body marks him as a heathen. Indeed, in an attempt to make sense of Gonzalo’s choices, one of the chroniclers, Fernández de Oviedo, speculated Gonzalo was a Muslim, a Jew, or a Converso, but no real Catholic (Calder, 2017). Who else would join the savages?! Clendinnen (cited by Calder, 2017, p. 83) put her finger on the psychological spot when writing that “for one of their own to acquiesce in such filthiness, and to choose it over his own and his own people, was to strike at the heart of their sense of self.” The identity of the native-goer and the identities of the referent groups are interwoven.

I have by necessity emphasized the male and the European perspective. What about the female and Mayan view? Who is Zazil Há, and what is her role in Gonzalo’s transformation? Without her, his fate and story might look rather different. This is a chapter that wants to be written. Meanwhile, we are left to ponder questions of identity that pervade the stories we tell about ourselves (McAdams & McLean, 2013). Extreme cases like Gonzalo are instructive because they highlight conflict and transformation. Such cases are tests of identity. Various parts of the Gonzalo story may resonate with you. Perhaps Gonzalo can encourage us to take another look at where we stand and why. What are the forces that shape us, and how will we respond when a storm throws us up against an unfamiliar shore.

Home to Homer

There is a curious sociological side to the reception of Gonzalo. In the Yucatán, he is widely known and revered. His legend is a rallying point against the official point of view, which still emphasizes the deeds of the conquistadors (in Mérida, these are the Montejos, father and son [el mozo]). The Yucatán is Maya country and far removed from Central Mexico, where the Aztecs provide the indigenous reference point. There, Cortés is credited with creating the race of mestizos with his slave, interpreter, and mistress, La Malinche. Cortés is reviled in the popular imagination there (just look at how Diego Rivera depicted him). Now consider the psychological problem: how can a positive image of an ingroup – here: la raza of mestizos – be constructed on the back of a raptor Urvater? The Yucatecans have solved this problem by embracing Gonzalo. Their ethnic identity is a blend of the Mayan, the mestizo, and the Mexican, and they can trace the mix to someone they can love.

And this is possible, I submit, because Ganzalo took the leap without a safety net. Gonzalo’s journey is not an Odyssey. In the Odyssey, the eventual return home is the engine behind the voyage; in Gonzalo, the hero does not look back to look forward. In conversation in Mérida, colleagues asked me why I did not consider Cabeza de Vaca as an exemplar of going native. Cabeza was shipwrecked in what is now Florida and walked all the way to the city of Mexico, a journey that took him eight years and that gained him repute as a healer and shaman among native populations along the way (Reséndez, 2007). But Cabeza had one goal: to reach home. And he did. He was a modern-day Odysseus. Gonzalo, who took a different path, remains unique and his legend has much to teach us.

Calder, R. (2017). A hero for the Americas: The legend of Gonzalo Guerrero. Regina, Saskatchewan: University of Regina Press.

Flores, L. E. (2012). Avatar o el regreso to Gonzalo Guerrero. La Jornada Semanal, 880. https://www.jornada.com.mx/2012/01/15/sem-luis.html

Freud, S. (1965/1933). New introductory lectures on . ( . James Strachey). Oxford, England: W. W. Norton.

Krueger, J. I. (2010). Back to the story. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/au/blog/one-among-many/201003/back-the-s...

Krueger, J. I. (2017). Going native. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/au/blog/one-among-many/201708/going-native

Landa, D. de (1566). Relación de las cosas de Yucatán. 2nd ed. Mérida, Yucatán, September, 2011.

McAdams, D. P., & McLean, K. C. (2013). Narrative Identity. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 22, 233–238.

Reséndez, A. (2007). A journey so strange: The extraordinary tale of a shipwrecked Spaniard who walked across America in the Sixteenth Century. New York: Perseus.

Ullrich, J., & Krueger, J. I. (2010). Interpersonal liking from bivariate attitude similarity. Social Psychology and Science, 1, 214-221.

White, E. R. (2010). In search of identity: Inner diaspora and psychic healing in Rudyard Kipling's Kim and Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children. South Asian Review, 31, 9-26,

====== 78 ========

THANKSGIVING: GRATITUDE OR GRATIFICATION?

Yesterday was the fourth Thursday in November, the day we recognize as Thanksgiving. Like many – though pointedly not all - Americans, the author was fortunate to be in the company of loved ones. As anticipated eagerly, the centerpiece of the event was a carefully prepared, sumptuous dinner. People laughed, teased, and caught each other up with their news. At evening’s end, they sat by a fire telling stories and sharing pictures. Although no one stated this directly, it was clear that everyone felt somehow affirmed and reinvigorated, both for who they have been and for who they will be. Then the visitors got in their cars and went home.

Today is another special day, so-called Black Friday. No has proclaimed this a time of national consolidation; most of us are back at work. But tens of millions are bustling about the stores. Others are on-line. Officially – though unofficially it never ends - the Christmas season is underway. Shoppers dream of special bargains; retailers pray that months of red ink will end. Thank heavens that this year’s date, November 23, is the earliest the event can be.

Such goings-on should make us ponder the character of our country’s celebrations. Who are we as a people? What energizes us? What values do we hold dear?

In any society, public holidays are special moments dedicated to answering the above questions. For the most important of those occasions, workers – at least government workers – have the day off. Schools, post offices, and many other public services are closed. The stock market pauses; banks lock their doors. In the U.S., there are 10 “official” federal holidays:

New Year’s Day (Jan. 1)

Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (3rd Monday in January)

Washington’s Birthday (3rd Monday in February)

Memorial Day (last Monday in May)

Independence Day (July 4)

Labor Day (first Monday in September)

Columbus Day (first Monday in October)

Veterans Day (November 11)

Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November)

Christmas Day (December 25)

As the reader can see, the holidays are of different sorts. Two celebrate the sacrifices of soldiers; one, of working people. There is remembrance of a president, an explorer, and a social reformer. A day of nation founding is marked; so is a key holiday. One holiday (with its preceding night of revelry) is just a calendar beginning. Finally, there is Thanksgiving.

Other publicly celebrated times – such as Valentine’s Day, Saint Patrick’s Day, Easter, and Halloween – are not federally recognized. Nor is that mammoth sporting event, the Super Bowl.

Although U.S. holidays are distinctive in their purposes and origins – and in the political wrangles that led to their enshrinement – those differences tend to be blurred or assimilated by the general culture of the society, and particularly by its commercial culture. Put simply, most are now occasions to shop, travel, and be entertained.

Contrast this with some not so distant centuries in European history, when holidays were indeed holy days. Sometimes they featured parades down thoroughfares, with key social groups claiming their positions in line. Celebrants gathered in common spaces or churchyards. Under religious auspices, people made their own fun, romping together. Different ages, genders, occupations, and social ranks mixed. Childlike behaviors were encouraged; so were minor acts of disrespect and impiety. There were and games; food and drink were abundant. In such ways, local communities proclaimed their identities. In an age of arduous existence, holidays were times to relax and refresh oneself – and to explore alternative value systems that challenged secular hierarchies and their codes of conduct.

Pointedly then, holidays are times to stop and reconsider the character of one’s life, to dabble in unusual behaviors, and to dream of new ways of living. Routines, particularly work routines, should pause. Normally dispersed people should unite. At such moments, the present swings loose from its normal placement in the scheme of things. The past blooms. And the future takes on newly imagined themes.

For such reasons, let people remember fallen heroes, ponder founding principles, and honor the groups that continue to make society vital. It is no shame to mix those solemnities with youthful exuberance.

Our contemporary holidays take on some of these meanings. Most of us are capable, if only for a few moments, of honoring the ancestors who made possible our current patterns of existence. Despite our mythology of being a fiercely individualistic country, we are a social people who love to be in the presence of those we care about. We are pleased to be “off work.” We enjoy eating and drinking.

Thanksgiving is one of the times that shows us at our best. It is also, and not coincidentally, one of the least commercialized of the honored days. To be sure, grocery stores are in overdrive; one can buy decorative items. Still, the event is largely a blip between the much more heavily commercialized times of Halloween and Christmas. To be sure, there are parades, like the famous one sponsored by Macy’s; but these are clearly run-ups to Christmas with Santa’s float at the rear. The same is to be said for televised sports. There is a profusion of these, but they are not the biggest of Big Games, which come later in the year.

Let us acknowledge that public acts of “giving thanks” are important, even profound matters. When food supplies are scarce or problematic, as in many societies historically, the blessings of a good harvest are very real. Thanks are offered, in part to the human workers who produced the bounty but mostly to ’s god or gods, who allowed the community to maintain its precarious existence. In that sense, the 1621 fall feast of the Massachusetts pilgrims was not distinctive – other settling groups had done the same – except for its joining of Native Americans with the scruffy immigrants.

How did Thanksgiving become a national holiday? In an attempt to build nationhood and steel military resolve, the Continental Congress formally encouraged individual colonies to have days of thanksgiving during the Revolutionary War. These events – conceived as “national days of prayer, , and thanksgiving” continued after independence. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first uniformly recognized day (Thursday, November 26) to thank God for the blessings granted the young republic.

Several subsequent Presidents (Jefferson being a conspicuous exception) continued that pattern, although different days and times of year were involved. The practice then became inconsistent, with states taking the lead.

As the nation lurched toward Civil War, Sara Josepha Hale, the editor of the popular magazine Godey’s Lady’s Book –and the author of an 1823 novel that featured a thanksgiving dinner - campaigned for Thanksgiving’s reinstitution as a national holiday. In response, President Lincoln designated Thursday, November 26, 1863, as such a day. Again, the focus was on to God. Pragmatically, it was a claim for national unity during a period of fierce division.

Lincoln’s precedent – effectively, naming the fourth Thursday in November – became the model for present times. Franklin Roosevelt did alter that pattern during the years 1939-1941, primarily to extend the Christmas shopping season. However, there was much opposition to “Franksgiving,” and in late 1941 Roosevelt signed a congressional resolution making the fourth Thursday as the official holiday.

Have the meanings of Thanksgiving shifted through the centuries? The earliest ceremonies focused on gratitude to God. They gathered community members for a feast. They emphasized that a time of great trial had come and gone. The calendar dates of the events were unimportant.

After Lincoln’s initial proclamation (which linked Thanksgiving to the stresses of war), the national custom became date-set and thus disconnected from any specific tests or trials. In the fashion of an officially sanctioned custom, local communities across the country were encouraged to do the event in their own ways. Parades, festivities, and football games were associated with the extended weekend of the holiday. The specifically religious focus of the holiday softened. Moreover, and as Roosevelt’s moving of the date made clear, there was increasing recognition that this was now the start of the Christmas shopping season,

It would perhaps be unrealistic to expect that a commercialized society like ours should not commercialize its holidays. Time off means time to shop. A day at home is an occasion to watch television and visit websites, all framed by commercial messaging. Go a large sporting event – or just watch one on TV – and sense the degree to which our enjoyments are “sponsored.” We find comfort in the companionship of successful products, or brand names. Their sole ambition is to please us; their possession proclaims that we have “made it.”

Again, who can blame us for seeking our pleasure-dose, for aspiring to be gratified? We want to center our thoughts on the wonderful meal before us. We treasure the support of the tablemates who make us feel good about ourselves. We hope that our favorite will be on TV – and that they will win. What feels better than a soothing drink and a warm fire?

Whatever the legitimacy of these satisfactions – and who can deny them? – we should remember that Thanksgiving is intended to turn our thoughts in the opposite direction. It is an occasion to thank those who make our lives – at all their moments - possible. Some of that thanks goes rightly to our families, however checkered our with them may be. Remember our good , the ones who stand by us in all circumstances. But beyond those carefully maintained circles others should be noted. Community members, once such an important part of people’s existence, continue to shape the local worlds in which we operate. Co-workers; church, team, and club members; fellow enthusiasts of our hobbies and causes all contribute to our sense of stability and purpose. Be clear that we also find support from people we do not know well – who build, repair, and otherwise service our existence. There are the unseen and unappreciated millions who contribute to our country and ensure its continuity. Beyond that, let those who have some awareness of the sacred foundations of our modest lives express that gratitude as well.

In short, the purpose of holidays (and Thanksgiving is just one of these) is to acknowledge indebtedness to others. Do not confuse gratification — the feeling of the full belly, warm fire, or comforting pat on the back – with that sense of willing obligation. We live as we do because others have made that existence possible. Let other times be devoted to self-encouragement, even self-love. At holidays, we thank those who have widened our realms of possibility.

====== 79 ========

HOW TO STOP FIGHTING WITH YOUR SPOUSE

Years back I saw a high powered, professional couple in San Francisco who went at each other’s throats, verbally speaking, twenty-four seven. Everything turned into an epic battle—whether the issue was eating meals, having , planning vacations, spending and saving money, decorating the house, rearing kids, or dealing with in-laws and ex-spouses. When they fought, they would revisiting one old hurt after another, and never resolving anything.

Both claimed they were powerless to control their tempers. Then, a distinguished British professor came to stay with them as their houseguest for several months, living in a guest room adjacent to their bedroom. “During that time, we never raised our voices,” the wife told me. “We were pretty courteous with each other. Pride, I guess.” They both agreed it was the best several months of their .

I wish I had a distinguished British houseguest to loan out to all my readers and clients. But I don’t. You'll just have to believe me when I tell you that you are capable of adjusting your behavior. It’s all about and following a couple of rules.

Where to start? The first rule is to make rules for how you as a couple will treat each other—rules you are responsible for following even in the heat of the moment. Like the couple I just described we often act as if the intensity of our gives us license to say or do anything, because, after all, we’re way to furious to be able to stop what’s coming out of our mouth! .

Of course we can stop ourselves and behave better--that is if we have a genuine intention to have a better marriage. If you or your partner can’t keep your anger from getting out of control, it’s important to get professional help.

Begin by sitting down with your partner and coming up with a few rules of your own. These might be, for example, “No yelling or name calling,“ “No bringing up past grievances during a fight” and “No bringing up problems at bedtime.” Many couples find it helpful to keep a written copy of the rules in a place where both will see it daily.

The second rule is to take the responsibility to change first, and make a sincere effort to keep fighting and negativity from escalating. Instead of waiting for your partner to do the right thing, take the initiative to add a note of or calm into a downward-spiraling conflict, or to postpone the exchange to a future time.

It doesn’t matter whether you use humor, or touch, or a simple refusal to participate in a non-productive exchange by saying something like, “If you want me to listen, get out of your debate posture!” The efforts you make to change the tone (or volume) of an increasingly nasty exchange can, over time, save and strengthen your marriage.

Of course, we want our partner to be the one to de-escalate and apologize first, especially if we’re convinced that he “started it” and is the one to blame. We lose sight of the fact that true victory lies in stopping the fight, and then making your point at a calmer time.

Don’t continue to participate in downward spiraling fights that go nowhere and threaten the foundation of and respect on which a good marriage is based. Happy couples are not couples that don’t fight. Rather they’re couples that fight fair, and take responsibility for their own words and actions, no matter how furious they may feel inside. If your motor is running for change, heres a book to help you to use your anger wisely and well.

====== 80 ========

DONALD TRUMP, NOT MELANIA, IS THE MOST BULLIED PERSON

Source: TMZ/Tyler Shields/Fair Use

Melania has failed to earn the 's sympathy for her recent declaration that she is the world’s most bullied person. And rightfully so. She is definitely not the most bullied person. That dubious distinction goes to her husband.

Melania may have been correct, though, had she complained of being the most bullied woman.

How do we determine who is the most bullied person? One way is by examining how much they are insulted, ridiculed and attacked in the news and entertainment media. There’s no contest. President Trump holds the number one place hands down.

Why our President is the most bullied person

There is a simple reason President Trump is the most bullied person in the world: the more powerful and famous you are, the more people are going to want to criticize, ridicule, attack, hate, and even destroy you.

The media and the general public don’t care about the flaws of the average John or Jane Doe. It is the rich, famous and powerful who are on the radar of the media, constantly on the lookout for the titillating information we crave to spice up our mundane, dreary existence.

With the possible exception of despotic dictatorships, the most bullied person in any country is its . In the US, it’s always been our President, even the most popular of them. And since the US is still considered the world’s leading power, the US President is the most bullied individual on the planet.

This is not to say that the President is only a target of . The President is also the nation’s most respected and supported person. But that does not negate the fact that he/she is the most bullied. There may be other famous people who temporarily move into the Number One position when they become the focus of worldwide negative media (think Harvey Weinstein). But as soon as the novelty wears away, the President reclaims the lead.

And if the President is a married man, the most bullied woman is likely to be his wife, the First Lady, especially if she assumes a public role, as many have done, including Melania. The media will examine her through a microscopic lens, searching for any imperfection or blunder to publicize in order to enhance their own ratings.

There are exceptions to the First Lady being the most bullied woman. Other women who hold top positions of power may be contenders, such as Hillary Clinton, especially during election season. But generally it is the First Lady that holds the position of the most bullied woman during the years of her reign. And this is especially true for Melania because of her association with Donald, commonly referred to as our Bully-in-Chief.

The Obamas were also the most-bullied

The Obamas were also the most bullied people when they occupied the White House. Barack was a recipient not only of praise; he was constantly despised and attacked by a sizable portion of Americans. And so was Barack’s wife. As reported in the New York Daily News:

During her eight years as First Lady, Michelle Obama withstood an onslaught of personal attacks and racist insults, with her critics seizing on her skin color and physical features – and repeatedly comparing her to a monkey in a bid to diminish her and tear her down.

The bullying of Melania

We feel sorry for children whose clothing is made fun of in school. Well, how about Melania Trump, whose wardrobe is a regular target of media ridicule. Her clothing was ridiculed only a few days ago: “Twitter goes after Melania Trump's unusual ensemble at the 2018 White House turkey pardoning.”

You may recall the worldwide attacks she suffered because of a coat she wore bearing the imprint, “I don’t really care, do you?”

But perhaps the most scathing attack on her wardrobe – or lack of one – was perpetrated a week ago by Bette Middler (I happened to find it funny, though Middler got mostly flack for her joke), who referred to FLOTUS (First Lady Of The US) as FLOTITS in a Tweet, The dry cleaning bill for the upholstery on Air Force One must be insane.#FLOTITS

Imagine – you have achieved the coveted status of First Lady of the United States, a position that should make you the object of veneration. Then someone posts an almost-nude picture of you from your previous as a model, accompanied by a vulgar caption, and it goes viral. This has produced an unprecedented situation: it is the first time in history that we can all see what our First Lady looks (looked?) like naked.

But the most serious barrage of bullying Melania has been subjected to is over the mission she has taken upon herself as First Lady: to combat bullying among children. She calls her campaign, Be Best, urging children to treat each other well. The media has had a field day with this, lampooning her as a hypocrite because she’s married to our Bully-In-Chief. How ironic to be bullied for taking up the anti-bully cause!

President Trump may be rightfully attacked for his public bullying behavior, unbecoming of a person in his exalted position. He has even been accused of causing an escalation of bullying among children: Donald Trump Has Unleashed a New Wave of Bullying in Schools. A highly publicized recent scientific study supports this contention.

Yes, indeed, our President fits the image of a classic bully. So it can certainly seem preposterously hypocritical for his wife to be taking up the anti-bully cause.

Our own hypocrisy

But there is something we tend to forget when we ridicule the Trumps. Bullying did not start with Donald and it won’t end with him. The bullies are not “them.” They are “us.”

Bullying is in our . As much as we attack the President for engaging in bullying, we enjoy being perpetrators and spectators of bullying as well, and we don’t want to stop. We enjoy it too much. The Trump presidency has been the best thing ever to happen to Saturday Night Live. Comedians’ careers have had new life breathed into them thanks to Trump. Trump has provided reporters, bloggers, and even psychologists with a steady stream of material, and the rest of us eagerly partake of their offerings. They give us something exciting to talk about at the water cooler, in the bar, on social media, and at our dinner tables.

No, the Trump presidency is not a cause of our bullying but a mirror of it. We are highly attuned when he bullies others but conveniently oblivious when we do it to him. And we do it to him much more than he does it to us. Jesus popularized the idea that we are adept at "seeing the speck in others’ eyes while failing to see the plank in our own." Does anything Donald has said about anyone rival the malevolence of Kathy Griffin’s appearance with a bloody replica of Trump’s severed head?

In fact, are not the things we routinely say about Trump far worse than what he says about us? Sure they are. It’s because we live in a democracy, and Trump knows that if he offends us too much we will vote him out of office. However, thanks to Freedom of Speech we can insult him all we want and, unless we work for him, there’s little he can do about it. While Kathy Griffin would have literally lost her head had she pulled such a stunt in a dictatorship, she is now enjoying renewed success as a result of Trump's attempt to ruin her career.

We may justify bullying the rich, powerful and famous by rationalizing that they deserve it, or that it is the price one pays for celebrity status. But it is easy to forget that celebrities are also human beings with feelings, just like the rest of us. While on the line at the grocery store, our gaze may be drawn to the humiliating stories and photos of celebrities that grace the covers of magazines. But do the celebrities enjoy the way they are depicted? Do they deserve to be publicly disgraced? Do we compassionately share their pain, or do we revel in the pleasure of schadenfraude?

If we are to learn anything about bullying from the Trump Presidency, it’s that the bullies are not “them.” They are “us.” As long as we enjoy the bullying of Donald, Melania, and others in positions of power, we cannot expect Trump to stop engaging in bullying, either. We may protest that he started, but doing it back makes us no better.

====== 81 ========

11 WAYS TO COPE WITH ANXIETY WHEN YOU’RE BUSY

Source: rawpixel for Unsplash

Finding ways to cope with is as much a matter of perspective as strategy. Anxiety in and of itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, and in fact can be a help, especially when we are busy. A powerful source of information and energy, anxiety can walk a fine line between motivating and overwhelming depending on how we choose to view it.

For those who live with anxiety on a more-than-occasional basis, choices tend to vacillate between giving into it or learning to live with it. “Perspective” can seem like a leisure activity in our fast-paced, information-packed world, rather than a line-item on a competent person’s calendar.

And yet, without perspective, there really is no competence. Information overload and the constant state of alert cause anxiety to fall off the fence and into the proverbial briar patch of overwhelm.

Learning ways to cope with anxiety when its optimization is still possible is far different than operating a rescue mission after it has all but crippled you. And when you’re busy (And who doesn’t feel “too busy”?), it is especially important to have some practiced methods of anxiety on-hand.

can be a tricky player. Sometimes it shows up as a factor beyond your control, forcing the hand of change and adaptation. Without it, there would be no growth, no strengthening, no evolution. And that is as true for the planet and its species as it is for the individual.

At the other end of the spectrum, stress can be a reflection of your mental and emotional responses to stimuli. Cognitively you may suspect or even know that the events triggering your anxiety in a given situation are actually “neutral,” and it is only your responses to them that are not. Frustrating as those times are (and we all have them), those are actually the “stressful moments” most imbued with opportunity.

Regardless of the origin of your anxiety, a stress response with a permanent green light isn't helpful. Chronic non-stop stress can overwhelm the nervous system and take its toll, both physically and emotionally.

You can, however, make choices and take actions to mitigate that stress response. There are ways to cope with anxiety so that you come out on the winning end and reap the benefits of anxiety as a resource.

Here are 11 strategies to try, especially when you’re busy:

1. Relaxation techniques for creeping-past-moderate anxiety.



By knowing how you instinctively respond to stress, you can best choose a course of action that either utilizes the stress or helps to quiet it. Do you get worked up? Retreat? Feel energized? Paralyzed? By knowing your unique tendencies, you can be in charge of your anxiety, not the other way around.



Moderate anxiety is where optimization lies. It’s where you will experience the “nudge” to get things done, push a little harder, risk going outside your comfort zone. It’s the “chatter” range of anxiety that keeps you accountable to the things that are important to you.



When anxiety starts “yelling” at you, however, the internal experience is literally like being yelled at. Your mind goes into overwhelm, or even shuts down as a defense mechanism.



Think of the difference between a that hits your system as “full dose” vs. “extended release.” Keeping anxiety at a “chatter” level will keep you comfortably on your toes and in sync with the it fuels.



On those occasions when the volume of your anxiety starts ramping up, it helps to have some techniques to bring your body and mind back into equilibrium. You may just need to dial back on the volume, or you may need to “reset” and start fresh after a break. The key is to recognize when your anxiety is starting to take control of you, and intervene with a relaxation technique that works for you.



Examples of relaxation techniques include:

• deep breathing

•

• body-scan meditation

•

• yoga and Tai Chi



2. Uni-task vs. multi-task.



We are all conditioned to believe that we must consistently do a gazillion things at once in order to keep up with the Joneses, let alone to succeed. But constant multitasking actually causes the to work less efficiently.



Learning to “uni-task” is at the heart of mindfulness meditation and is a powerful tool in helping to establish priorities while letting non-essentials fall away. Put down your phone and be with your child. Get out of the office and have a “walking meeting” with your co-worker. Get comfortable giving your to one thing at a time.



3. Spread the .



Direct your anxiety into helping someone else. It’s amazing how the proclivity for worrying dissipates when you are selflessly serving someone else’s needs. And it’s no secret that you will benefit, as well.



4. Exercise.



Even gentle exercise like walking or yoga can have a profound effect. The endorphins released with gentle exercise will keep you energized and focused without the uncomfortable anxiety effects.



5. Talk it out.



Having someone to talk with when anxiety starts to get ahead of you can help slow its progress and steer you back toward its productive benefits. A friend, counselor, or support group can help you keep perspective. And infusing a little into the conversation is great medicine.



6. Turn off to tune out.



Turn off the TV and say “night-night” to your phone at least an hour before bedtime. The last thing an anxious mind needs when trying to wind down is a barrage of hostile headlines and social notifications.



The -assaulting effects of your screen’s blue light frequency can also wreak havoc with your ability to drift off. Because it mimics the blue light of dawn, it can sabotage your sleep ritual by “waking you up.”



There are plenty of low-tech ways to relax before bed. Try a book with actual pages and/or a diffuser with calming essential oils. Or download a filter to your computer to change the light frequency.



7. Eat well.



How you eat affects how you feel, both physically and emotionally.



The common-sense guidelines for keeping your body healthy also pertain to keeping your brain healthy. Watch the caffeine, avoid fried and high-sugar foods, and eat oil-rich fish and plenty of vegetables. Keeping your blood-sugar levels on an even keel is one of the simplest ways to cope with anxiety while fostering a healthy all-around life.



8. Take action in spite of .



Instead of allowing yourself time to brood over all the possible outcomes of your choices, take action. Get into the game. Take baby steps if that is all you can do. But stand up to the fear and make adjustments once you are in motion. You’ll find that most of that catastrophizing was for naught.

9. Tell yourself you can handle this, because you are handling it.



When doubt creeps in, pull out a mantra that works for you -- something like, “I can handle this, and everything is going to be OK.”



While the anxietythat you are feeling is likely a signal for needed growth, there is no 911 for you to accomplish it all right now. You are handling the demands of this moment, and you willhandle the demands that come after. One breath, one moment, one task at a time.



By recognizing that you are managing -- even if not so gracefully -- you can also shed a common secondary anxiety that comes along with stress: “I can’t handle this.” You may not wantto handle it, but you can.



10. Be strategic in placing your expectations.



In the spirit of making stress as low as possible, strive to limit high expectations. Taking a moment to ask yourself, “Do I have control over this? And if so, how much?” can do wonders to position you advantageously and prevent the deflation that comes from having high hopes dashed.



Your hopes and are precious commodities. Be protective of them, and careful not to put them at unnecessary risk. Look to focus on realistic , informed by what is actually happening. Notice where you feel traction, and look to build expectations from there.



However, even when you’re keeping your expectations in check, disappointments will still happen. And, no matter how small they are, they can still hurt – because you care.



Your caring is a vital part of you. It’s OK to be sad for a short while when you feel disappointed before moving forward again. The important thing is that you are willing to keep moving so that you don’t get stuck in any feelings of disappointment along the way to pursuing your hopes and dreams.



11. Identify how you are overextending and pull back.



When stress rears its head, most of us stretch to meet its demands. This is how we grow and get stronger. But when we stretch too much and avoid setting limits, especially at work, we risk a diminishing return on investment. Perfectionism can lure us out of balance, as well.



For many of us, saying “no” can be tough. How can you limit someof your overextending? Where can you claim more time, more space for you? How, and to whom, can you say “no” or “not now” with consequences you can live with?



It is too tempting to say “no” and “not now” to our own needs in order to cope; but in the long run, this is a recipe for . While flexibility might be admirable, it can be an impediment to holding onto balance. Flexibility still needs to suit your own needs to be sustainable.

Anxiety has the ability to increase energy, streamline mental focus and boost productivity. Optimizing it relies on you being able to recognize its symptoms and keep a positive perspective, then using those symptoms to your advantage as much as possible. By having reliable ways to cope with anxiety, you can embrace it as a colleague that is accompanying you on your journey for your highest good.

====== 82 ========

EVIDENCE THAT DREAMS HELP US LEARN

One of the most interesting lines of research in dream psychology these days are the so-called “dream incorporation” studies. Incorporation of novel learned material into dream content significantly predicts success at permanent retention or learning that novel content (Fiss et al., 1977; De Konnick et al., 1990; Stickgold et al., 2000; Fosse, Fosse, Hobson, & Stickgold, 2003; Wamsley, Perry, et al., 2010; Wamsley, Tucker, et al., 2010; Wamsley et al., 2012; Schoch et al., 2018; Wamsley and Stickgold, 2018). If you dream about something you studied that day you are more likely to retain that information the next day. Improved performance on learning novel materials is significantly associated with the extent of dream incorporation—the greater the number of elements of the learned materials incorporated into , the stronger the acquisition of those novel materials in subsequent daytime performance tests. For example, De Koninck et al., 1990 found that second language acquisition scores were predicted by a higher frequency of dreams that incorporated elements (words, phrases etc) of the second language into dream content. Wamsley et al. (2012) demonstrated that learning to master a virtual maze navigation task was significantly associated with dream incorporation of elements of the maze. Greater incorporation predicted greater mastery. Learning-related dream incorporation into REM dreams is strongest on the night after and from 5–7 nights after learning, reflecting “day residue” and “dream-lag” effects, respectively (Nielsen et al., 2004; van Rijn et al., 2015).

The neurobiologic basis of these dream incorporation effects likely involves sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation processes. A large number of studies have now demonstrated differential performance improvements (e.g., from training to retest) on a large variety of tasks over an intervening period of sleep vs control periods of wakefulness. Human neuroimaging studies incorporating sleep dependent memory paradigms suggest that after new learning, there is physiological reactivation of brain areas recruited during learning (Peigneux et al., 2003, 2006; Oudiette and Paller, 2013; Oudiette et al., 2013; Fogel et al., 2017). Single cell recordings in animal studies have shown that during sleep there is a physiological replaying of the representation formed during waking learning (e.g. exploration of a maze). There is some evidence that this replay of neural representations of learned materials occurs in humans as well and is reflected in the content of our dreams (Stickgold et al., 2000; Wamsley et al., 2010; Kusse et al., 2012; Wamsley, 2014; 2018). “Targeted memory reactivation” refers to the use of cueing techniques to facilitate reactivation and replay of neural representations or during sleep to promote later waking recall of those memories (e.g., Cellini and Capuozzon, 2018, for review). For example, playing selected words or sounds during sleep that were previously paired with to-be-learned words during a learning phase before sleep results in better recall of the word-pairs post-sleep. Presentation of cues during sleep that had been previously associated with a stimulus during wake results in better recall of that stimulus during subsequent waking recall tests. These techniques have been used to improve memory performance in healthy people and in patient populations. By re-exposing subjects to odors, words, or tones (i.e., cues) associated with newly learnt neutral or emotional memories, emotional memories were reactivated and more readily recalled later. It should be possible to use targeted reactivation techniques to reinforce dream images of previously studied material. Then we would be harnessing the power of dreams in a whole new way.

====== 83 ========

WAS THE UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? LAST OF 4 PARTS

I've been exploring the so-called anthropic principle, the notion that perhaps the universe was somehow made with us in mind (suggested, according to its supporters, by the claim that if any of a large number of physical constants were just a smidgeon different, we wouldn't exist). If you'd like to catch up on this scientific-philosophical-theological and altogether skeptical journey, you can find versions one, two and three, in chronological order.

It seems likely that life exists elsewhere in the universe, if only because it has become clear that there is a huge number of potentially life-friendly planets along with other potential happy havens out there. And of course, if there is - and if the universe really was, somehow and by Someone, "made" - it's always possible that it was made for them: three-headed slimy slobbus beasts, or perhaps hardened chunks of metabolizing meteorite masses ... or whatever.

For extraterrestrial life to exist, it nonetheless seems likely (although by no means certain) that it would have to reside on one or more exoplanets, asteroids or perhaps a comet, rather than within a star or free-floating in open space. Moreover, such exoplanets would have to be associated with stars that, for example, don’t emit massive amounts of X-rays or other forms of radiation. But of course, this presumes that “life” would be consistent with “life as we know it.” Maybe there are critters out there who cheerfully bathe in hefty levels of what to terrestrial biologists are lethal amounts of energy, or get by and even thrive on not enough energy to sustain a perseverating entity that would qualify – to us - as “alive.” Most likely, I suspect, there aren’t.

Just a bit closer to established reality, quantum mechanics offers another potential solution to the anthropic conundrum, one that seems if anything weirder than the multiverse hypothesis. According to theory - the same theory that gives rise to, among other things, the very real computer on which this book has been written - matter at its most fundamental level is made up of probabilistic wave functions, which only transition to “reality” when a conscious observer intervenes to measure or perceive them. In the famous “double slit experiment,” light is revealed to be either a particle or a wave only after it is measured as one or the other. Prior to this, photons do not, in a sense, exist as clear-cut entities; afterward, they do.

Based on these and other findings, physicist John Wheeler, one of the towering pioneers of quantum mechanics, who coined the term “black hole,” (and who numbered Nobel laureate Richard Feynman among his students) suggested a “participatory anthropic principle,” whereby – believe it or not – the universe had to include conscious beings in order for it to exist. Personally, I don’t believe it.

I do, however, believe in evolution, which leads – by a stretch no more bizarre than Wheeler’s – to the suggestion that maybe it shouldn’t be surprising that we live in a universe suitable for life, something that has happened not because the universe has been fine-tuned for us or has somehow been “made real” by us, but because we are fine-attuned to it because of natural selection. Just as the physical qualities of air have selected for the structure of bird wings, and the anatomy of fish speaks eloquently about the of water, maybe the nature of the physical universe has in the most general sense, selected for life, and thus, for us.

There is also another, more peculiar way of incorporating natural selection into the anthropic quest. What if natural selection occurs at the level of galaxies, or even universes, such that those offering the potential for life are more likely to replicate themselves? If so, then compared to life-denying galaxies, life-friendly ones might conceivably have produced more copies of themselves, providing greater opportunities for life forms such as ourselves. Aside from the rampant unlikelihood of this “explanation,” it remains unclear how or why such pro-life galaxies would be favored over their more barren alternatives.

Nonetheless, physicist Lee Smolin has pursued the notion of “cosmological natural selection,” whereby perhaps not just galaxies but entire universes replicate themselves, courtesy of black holes.[i] If so, then what sort of universes would be favored – “selected for,” as biologists would put it? Easy: those that employ physical laws and constants that are “more fit,” i.e., that lend themselves to being reproduced. This conveniently explains (if explanation is the correct word) why our universe contains black holes (it’s how they replicate). It also leads to the supposition that perhaps intelligent beings can contribute to the selective advantage of their particular universe, via the production of black holes, and who-knows-what-else.

Another possibility, no less weird, was broached by Carl Sagan in his 1985 novel, Contact. In it, the heroine is advised by an extraterrestrial to study transcendental numbers - numbers that are not algebraic – of which the best known example is pi. She computes one such number out to 1020 places, at which point she detects a message embedded in this number.

Since such numerology is fundamental to mathematics itself and is thus, in a sense, a property of the basic fabric of the universe, the implication is that the cosmos itself is somehow a product of intelligence, since the message is clearly an artificial one and not the result of random noise. Or maybe the universe itself is “alive,” and the various physical and mathematical constants are part of its metabolism. Such speculation is great fun, but please bear in mind that it is science fiction, not science!

It should be clear at this point that the anthropic argument readily devolves into speculative and even theology. Indeed, it is reminiscent of the “god of the gaps” perspective, in which god is posited whenever science hasn’t (yet) provided an answer. Calling upon god specifically when there is a gap in our scientific may be tempting, but it is not even popular among theologians, because as science grows, the gaps – and thus, god – shrinks. It remains to be seen whether the anthropic principle, in whatever form, succeeds in expanding our sense of ourselves beyond that illuminated by science. I wouldn’t bet on it.

And yet, despite what we has been called Copernican Mediocrity – to which I would add Darwinian Mediocrity - just because the universe is unlikely to be what it is simply for our benefit, this need not, and should not, give rise to an alternative, “misanthropic principle.” Regardless of how special we are, or aren’t, wouldn’t we be well-advised to treat everyone (including the other life forms with which we share this planet), as the precious beings we like to imagine us all to be?

[i] L. Smolin. 1999. The Life of the Cosmos. New York: Oxford University Press

====== 84 ========

MANAGING THE EXPERIENCE OF SETBACKS AT WORK

Work deadlines are a fact of life for many individuals, and failure to meet deadlines can result in serious consequences. Unfortunately, set-backs are also common at work. Specifically, sometimes the progress workers are able to make toward their goals is inhibited by factors outside their control. For instance, a computer crash has the potential to undo a day’s worth of work. When deadlines must be met, such set-backs can be quite upsetting, and potentially demotivating.

However, to date relatively little research has considered the effects of set-backs on worker emotions and . More so, virtually no efforts have been made to differentiate types of set-backs. To this end, my co-authors Abigail Scholer, Jeffrey Hughes, and I designed two experiments to address this issue. Specifically, we identified two types of set-backs:

Distance Set-backs are characterized by a loss of progress. As an example, consider an employee working on a report due at the end of the day. A computer crash that causes some or all of the report to be deleted is a distance set-back.

Velocity Set-backs are characterized by a decrease in the rate of progress that can be made in the future. No progress is lost, yet all future progress is made more slowly compared to before the set-back occurred. For instance, a virus that causes a computer to slow down (thereby slowing future progress) is a velocity set-back.

We predicted that both types of set-backs would cause individuals to feel increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm while performing work tasks. However, we also predicted that whereas the effects of a distance set-back would eventually fade over time, the effects of a velocity set-back would persist.

Participants were randomly assigned to experience either a distance set-back or a velocity set-back while they completed a simulated work task. Halfway through the experiment participants were told their was a “computer glitch.” Participants in the distance condition were told this glitch caused some of the work they had already completed to be lost, and thus, this work would need to be redone. Conversely, participants in the velocity condition were told the glitch caused delays in the computer program, resulting in slower progress from that point onward. Importantly, the distance and velocity set-backs were designed to be functionally equivalent in terms of the likelihood of ultimately completing the task within the deadline. In other words, all participants had an equal chance to meet the deadline, regardless of condition. Participants who completed the task within the deadline were given a small cash reward.

As expected, participants had relatively negative initial reactions to both types of set-backs. Specifically, participants in both conditions reported increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm. Yet these reactions were relatively short-lived for participants who experienced a distance set-back; frustration and enthusiasm returned to baseline levels by the end of the experiment. On the other had, the increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm persisted over time among participants who experienced the velocity set-back. Although the set-backs were equivalent in terms of their effect on ultimately completing the task within the deadline, negative reactions to velocity set-backs were far more persistent compared to the reactions to the distance set-back. Downstream, frustration and enthusiasm predicted important motivational outcomes, including goal commitment, effort, and task performance.

These results highlight the importance of the effects that set-back can have on worker emotions and motivation. Managers should be cognizant of the fact that workers are likely to be upset following set-backs, and this may detract from motivation and performance moving forward. This may be particularly true following velocity set-backs. However, managers may be able to ameliorate the these deleterious effects by helping employees update their expectations regarding a reasonable rate of progress. In other words, following a velocity set-back managers may be to communicate to their subordinates that they understand the source of the slowed progress. Doing so may help employees reappraise the situation, form new internal guidelines for reasonable rates of progress, and remain committed to completing the task on time.

The full manuscript can be downloaded here.

====== 85 ========

BETWEEN HERE AND MY LAST STOP: MEMOIRS AND ASSISTED MAGIC

Source: Wikimedia

It was a fall about the time of the Women’s March 2016 that sidelined me and my pink pussy hat. I knew then that I had just participated in my last protest demonstration. Although a one-time believer is the "stay-at-home" movement -- research on , , and highlights from the Gerontological Society of America meetings, which I have been following for some years now, compelled me to reconsider. The 18th Annual Meeting was held in Boston this month. With research from diverse areas, they report on new scientific research and ways to promote healthy aging. Gerontological Society of America.

It came at a time, when I was feeling challenged and welcomed their ideas and energy. Despite my calling "aging in place the fountain of youth" in an earlier article, after my pussy hat fall my choices were limited: Moving in with children or into assisted living — for which I considered myself to be too young. Nonetheless, after reading once again Being Mortal by Atul Gawande, M.D., I began counting my blessings, and made a choice.

Gawande, a New Yorker staff writer, and long-time physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, points out that we can enjoy creative moments filled with meaning and vitality even in our later years.

As many reviewers have pointed out, Gawande's mission appears to be allowing people to live a meaningful life and shape the story of their own lives. While assisted living is sometimes considered a home, indeed, for people in their 60s, 70s, and older, it can be a place to begin a new adventure. If psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung born in 1875, folded up into full retirement, he may not have written one of his classic works, , , Reflections in 1962.

A book may not be in our future, but assisted living can become a starting point for a new life experience. Former colleagues almost jealously compare my living choice to The MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire. There writers and artists are nurtured while oftentimes completing a work in progress.

A Family Memoir

Falling as I did sidelined me, but also set in motion a plan to collect all published columns about my grandparents and put them into a book for my grandchildren. And indeed, with a black paper photo scrapbook, made by one of my sisters, and time to write uninterrupted, Italian Kisses: My Grandmother's , is now with Bordighera Press in New York City.

For people interested in memoirs, there is new and interesting research from the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf. As reported in Behaviour Research and and and Behavioral Practice, even unhappy memories can be transformed by editing and rescripting them: How to Treasure Happy Memories and Edit the Sad Ones (with references.)

An Assignment

Before our last stop, many of us have a myriad of , wishes and dreams, or a bucket list. Most people do not like to think about the last stop. However, a graduate school assignment helped us to come face-to-face with our mortality. We were tasked with writing our own obituary. It was a way to look at our goals and determine how we wished to be remembered. Write one today and then ask yourself: "Is this what I'd like my life story to say?" And if it is not, then ask, "What is missing? What did I hope to accomplish?"

One graduate school colleague said she wanted to be a physician. Someone chided her saying, "You'll be 50 by the time you become a resident." She thought for a minute and answered, "I'll be 50 anyway." And she enrolled in medical school.

Copyright 2018 Rita Watson

====== 86 ========

THE PROFOUND PLEASURE OF PUTTERING

Source: Pippalou/Morguefile

After an exceedingly long, exceedingly busy couple of years—during which any time I wasn’t actively doing something, I was worrying about things I should be doing—I woke up one morning with all the important tasks behind me and nothing pressing ahead of me. Nothing to do, nowhere to go, and no reason to worry about it.

My god, what a glorious feeling.

I got out of bed, put on comfortable clothes, may or may not have brushed my hair, and threw myself body and soul into puttering.

I wonder: Do know the deep, joyous satisfaction of puttering around the house? Or is a day without other people, for them, a day wasted?

Puttering around the house entails wandering from room to room, doing those little things you’ve meant to do eventually (changing light bulbs, throwing away old eye shadows, paging through catalogs that have stacked up on the counter…). You let your wander with your body, shedding superfluous worries with the abandon of a cat dropping hair on black pants.

Puttering has no goal unless you count the million little that crop up, to either be accomplished or not. I take profound pleasure in tossing those catalogs in the recycle bin, blowing drifts of leaves off the driveway, organizing my sock drawer. In puttering, I simply follow along wherever my meandering mind takes me--and if I don’t finish something, so what? I’ll finish something else. Have you ever noticed how soothing sweeping the floor can be?

On this day, after some indoor puttering, I strolled to the backyard, where I became suddenly aware of the paving stones that have waited patiently for more than a year to be placed. So I got a shovel and got to work. And in setting my brain free while I did the heavy lifting, I managed to re-envision the patio into something that’s becoming quite pleasing.

And yes, I even moved the bag of mulch that had been laying where I dropped it when I took it out of my car trunk so many months ago--although I did enjoy the running joke it had become. Stays where you put it! the bag boasted. Indeed it did.

I went into the house, then out. In, out. In, out. I did this, and did that, and then I did the other thing. Talked to myself, sang along with the radio, listened to a couple of the podcasts I earnestly downloaded long ago, for when I had time. For a while I just sat silently and stared into space as the frantic chatter in my brain slowed to a gentle mutter and then trailed off.

To an extent, puttering is a gesture of respect from our brains to our physical selves. It’s not about thinking, or reading, or producing. Instead, we take on “mindless tasks” that need only the most minimal participation of the brain We acknowledge our surroundings, consider what makes us comfortable, and tend to those things, however aimlessly.

This is not the same as housekeeping, which is more the drudgery of keeping a house functional. That’s serious, stodgy work. This is the frill on the turkey, taking care of the visual clutter that tends to exacerbate the racket of a busy brain. If we let our brains lead, they drift towards the little disturbances—piles of mail, unfinished projects—so we may handle them. We wash the bedroom curtains. Hang a picture. Make things nice.

When my life gets full, puttering around the house invariably falls off my schedule. On one hand, it seems indulgent. But it’s also not something one ordinarily schedules. Puttering typically occurs spontaneously, in between all the other things one does. It is both an activity, and the absence of activity.

But I realized the other day, as I drifted around the house, that this day of hardcore puttering felt deeply therapeutic. Set it free from all constraints, my brain meandered at its own pace and in its own way, unclenching and creating space through which fresh ideas wafted. It was relaxing, and refreshing, and rejuvenating. Plus I got rid of those catalogs.

====== 87 ========

TIME AND SPACE MAY BE PERCEIVED BY A COMMON BRAIN SYSTEM

Time and space are fundamental dimensions of the universe. Those dimensions are conventionally scaled by distinctly different methods of measurement. We use hourglasses and watches to record the passage of time; we use rulers and gauge blocks to index length. Yet, Albert Einstein’s revolutionary theory of relativity upset this simplistic apple cart by suggesting that time and space are actually inseparable.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

Einstein’s startling suggestion certainly challenges common sense. Nevertheless, research in science and has recently revealed that we use a shared neurobiological mechanism to make psychological judgments of time and space.

In one key piece of behavioral evidence, researchers found that the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length people reported it to be. In a parallel fashion, the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration people reported it to be. This surprising interdependence violates the belief that—at least psychologically—space and time are independent dimensions.

Furthering the unexpected of this finding is the fact that rhesus monkeys responded in the same way as did people when given comparable testing procedures. Clearly, the psychological interdependence of space and time is not uniquely human. Nevertheless, as primates, both monkeys and humans share key neural structures like the cerebral cortex.

Source: Monkeyland, South Africa

In our own research at The University of Iowa, we sought to advance our of the common processing of time and space by attempting to replicate the psychological interdependence of space and time in the pigeon—an animal which, like all birds, does not have a cerebral cortex. Remarkably, pigeons behaved just as did humans and monkeys: the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length pigeons reported it to be and the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration pigeons reported it to be.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

When adaptive behaviors are shared by extremely distant phylogenetic relatives, it is generally assumed that their evolution independently arose in response to common survival demands. Exactly what may have encouraged the common processing of time and space by birds and mammals has yet to be determined. Still, it is clear that the very differently organized brains of birds and mammals exhibit a common functionality: a finding that is turning out to be more common than is conventionally expected.

Indeed, the cognitive prowess of birds is now deemed to be ever closer to that of both human and nonhuman primates. Those avian nervous systems are capable of far greater achievements than the pejorative “bird brain” would ever have suggested.

====== 88 ========

ARE YOU SELFISH OR DO YOU JUST HAVE HEALTHY SELF-INTEREST?

Doris believed that decent, kind and considerate people never put their own needs before those of others, especially when dealing with loved ones. She thought only selfish people who failed to care about the feeling and wishes of others would ever put their own desires first. Unsurprisingly, Doris often felt people took unfair advantage of her and did not reciprocate her selflessness. In fact, most of her family and seemed to believe Doris was a bit of a martyr and derived satisfaction from her self-sacrificial M.O. In reality, however, she often felt resentful but because of and could never bring herself to express her true feelings.



After a brief course of CBT, emphasizing rational reframing and training, Doris reported feeling much better about herself and many of her . What I call the “O2 metaphor” (O2 as in oxygen) seemed to particularly resonate with Doris:



Imagine you’re flying a commercial jet seated between a very young child and a frail, very old adult. All of a sudden the cabin loses pressure. The oxygen masks deploy and drop down in front of everybody. Now, who is the first person you put the oxygen mask on? The helpless child? The struggling senior? No, and no! As every flight attendant will announce during the safety briefing, we are instructed to put on our own mask first before attempting to help anyone else. Because if we don’t, we’ll pass out almost immediately. And then, not only will we have failed help the child and/or the senior, but we now need help ourselves. Yet if we had first taken just a few seconds to secure our own air supply, we then would have been able to attend to the people around us who might need help. Also, by taking care of ourselves first, we can often avoid the predicament of needing assistance ourselves. Thus, often, only by helping ourselves first can we be a position to offer or provide help to others. This is the main difference between healthy self-interest and selfishness.



In essence, selfishness involves satisfying your own needs at the expense of others. Healthy self-interest is simply taking care of yourself but not at the expense of others. Related to this is the unfortunate notion that it is better to give than to receive. Why? This mistaken idea has led many people like Doris to be ungracious about accepting things from others. The irony is that it can be selfish to refuse to let someone to do a kind deed for us because it deprives them of satisfaction. Hence, neither giving or receiving is “better.” It is best to give and to receive.



At the heart of Doris’s lack of assertiveness was an element of rejection and abandonment . Indeed, many people believe that if they say “no,” or put themselves first, it will lead people to dislike them and might even rupture their relationships. But when we realize if someone reacts so dramatically to a simple act of healthy expression, the problem is with them and not with the assertive person. In these cases, it’s often necessary to recalibrate the relationship and keep in mind that the other person has some significant personal and interpersonal challenges.



So, when you’re about to say “yes” when you’d really rather say “no,” think of the O2 metaphor. Also, try not to be held hostage by exaggerated fears of your relationships’ fragility. Any healthy and truly meaningful intimacy ought to easily withstand a an occasional “no” and balanced instances of enlightened self-interest. Finally, allow yourself to receive gifts and accept kind acts from others so that they don’t feel rejected and fail to derive the pleasure of giving.



Remember: Think well, Act Well, Feel well, Be well!

Dear Reader: The advertisements contained in this post do not necessarily reflect my opinions nor are they endorsed by me. — Clifford

Copyright 2018 by Clifford N. Lazarus, Ph.D. This post is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional assistance or personal mental treatment by a qualified clinician.

====== 89 ========

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN LEADERS OVERESTIMATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS?

The very best leaders are self-aware. They know their strengths and limitations. They strive to overcome those limitations and become better leaders. At the same time, it takes self- to be a leader.

What happens when self-awareness takes a backseat to too much leader self-confidence?

Research by Leanne Atwater and colleagues has shown that leaders who overestimate their effectiveness tend to be and have too much belief in their own competence and are unrealistically – believing that they will be more successful than circumstances will allow. In addition, overestimators tend to ignore criticism and thus are unlikely to see their own flaws and they don’t work to overcome their weaknesses.

What about those who underestimate their leadership effectiveness?

Underestimators tend to overemphasize their weaknesses and undervalue their true leadership strengths. This leads to a lack of self-confidence (although some underestimators may work hard to try to compensate for their perceived weaknesses).

How about leaders who are accurate in estimating their leader effectiveness?

These leaders understand their leadership strengths and shortcomings and are better able to employ their skills, and work to develop those that are lacking.

How do researchers measure estimation of leadership effectiveness?

It is done by having both leaders rate themselves and the followers/direct reports of the leader completing the same ratings of leadership effectiveness. The amount of agreement/disagreement leads to determination of leader under and over estimators, and those leaders who have a good of how they are seen by their followers.

The research also shows that leaders who are in agreement with the ratings of their followers have higher potential for promotion and lower risk of experiencing leader derailment. In other words, knowing oneself, and how one is viewed by followers, helps boost a leader’s effectiveness, success, and continued leader development.

Follow me on : http://twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 90 ========

THE SIMPLE GESTURE THAT ENHANCES HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

Source: CC0 Creative Commons

In my twelve-step fellowship, we greet each other with a hug. Whenever I see my daughters, we hug. I’m not talking about a fleeting, drive-by, bro-style pat-on-the-back hug, but rather one that is substantial, sustained, and heartfelt. Hugging another person with intention and feeling is a powerful form of recognition, an unequivocal acknowledgement that he or she matters. It is often an indicator of emotional intimacy that says, “I got you,” even—or perhaps especially—in the face of adversity.

Physiologically, hugging precipitates the release of , often referred to as the “bonding hormone” because it promotes and strengthens existing bonds and , which includes the bond between mothers and their newborn babies. In this way, hugging and other forms of caring touch likely emerged as an evolutionary imperative—facilitating connection to enhance survival. Oxytocin is a chemical of interpersonal connection, not only released through physical closeness with another person but also through other forms of bonding, such as eye contact, smiling, and attentiveness.

In addition to such psychological sustenance, hugging also provides significant benefits, starting with its reducing, calming effects. Recent research demonstrates that oxytocin is associated with decreases in the stress cortisol and norepinephrine, as well as increased levels of the feel-good neurotransmitters and serotonin (the body’s natural ). Moreover, there’s evidence that hugs and the oxytocin release that accompanies them reduce heart rate and blood pressure, increase feelings of well-being, and improve immune system function and pain tolerance.[1]

Physical embrace in the form of hugging is an action with tremendous bang for the buck. Engaging in hugs and other forms of caring touch, such as placing an arm around someone shows kindness; putting a hand on another’s shoulder communicates support. Caring touch has multiple physiological and emotional benefits for both people. It reduces blood pressure, lowers cortisol, and stimulates the release of oxytocin. Touching also releases serotonin, which soothes and regulates mood.

Caring touch is a primary language of . It provides emotional nourishment—awakening and increasing feelings of calmness, trust, and secure attachment between parents and their children. Make time to connect with your children, regardless of how busy you are. Tell them that you love them—often. Too many parents don’t do this or only do it rarely, many assuming “they already know I love them.”

One of the ironies of human nature is that all too frequently, people make an effort to be more overtly kind and considerate to other people (sometimes complete strangers) than to their own families. They may be much harder on those with whom they are closest—partners and children in particular—taking the connection and relationship for granted. This was the case with my own father, and there have been times I succumbed to this phenomenon as well.

For five years during the mid-1990s, I was the clinical director for a hospital-based treatment program that provided medically managed detoxification and rehabilitation for adults. In addition to supervising the program’s social workers and counselors, my role included functioning as a sort of vice-principal, dealing directly with violations of program rules and determining consequences. We worked with an extremely challenged and challenging population, and when patients acted out—which occurred in all manner of ways—they had to meet with me. In response to my usual intentional professional demeanor, with surprising frequency, they would ask me, “Do you ever get angry?” In response, I’d smile and assure them that since is a natural human emotion, everyone gets angry sometimes.

On my return home, I’d tell my kids that the patients at work once again asked if I ever got angry, to which my elder daughter’s reaction was a combination snort-snigger followed by an always incredulous variation on the theme of “If they only knew.” While I took considerable pride in my professional , its incongruity with the liberties of laxity I sometimes took as a parent and partner only inspired self-reproach.

We need to be consciously aware of the tendency to take the people we love and their presence in our lives for granted and treat them less well. With this awareness, we are more likely to treat them with the kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love they deserve.

is a link in the chain that connects the past with the future. How did the way your parents talked to you influence your , your self-talk? Keep in mind that how you treat and talk to your children becomes part of how they treat and talk to themselves.

Every day, you participate in myriad encounters, each of which has an impact on other people, your , and you. The impacts of your actions ripple far beyond what you know or can observe, so with conscious effort, you can build more kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love into your actions throughout the day.

The size of the actions matters not; they all have meaning and value. Everything you do that is positive makes a positive difference somehow, somewhere, and in some way, especially with your children. As expressed so elegantly by psychologist and philosopher William James, “Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference. It does.”

Copyright 2018 Dan Mager, MSW

Author of Roots and Wings: Mindful Parenting in Recovery and Some Assembly Required: A Balanced Approach to Recovery from Addiction and

====== 91 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

The Hungry Consumer

Overzealous consumerism and holiday gift-giving is a double whammy. Today might be dedicated to excessive and aggressive shopping, but it comes one day after we’re supposed to appreciate all that we have. What does that say about us?

====== 92 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

In agricultural societies of the past, farmers were mostly self sufficient. They worked hard but consumed little. Today we consume so much that the oceans are filled with trash. What changed?

Rising Disposable Income

A great deal has happened. To begin with, rising global affluence following the Industrial Revolution put a lot more money in people's wage packets (1). The proportion of pay being spent on non essentials like food and shelter declined, leaving a surplus of “disposable income”.

This had several important consequences. Social mobility took off. Workers began using their disposable income to communicate social success and status.

This could be one reason that the bulk of disposable income is devoted to leisure activities. Of course, such activities are also pleasurable in themselves, from enjoying sunshine in a vacation spot to fine dining, or driving luxury vehicles.

In feudal societies there had been minimal social mobility and a luxurious lifestyle was the exclusive preserve of the landed elite.

This scenario changed profoundly with the rise of the middle classes following the Industrial Revolution. Some scholars argue that the lives of ordinary people in developed countries today are more luxurious in material terms than those of the most sybaritic monarchs of the past (such as Louis 16th of France) given the variety of consumer goods available (2).

The Rise of

Social mobility preceded the steam-engine-based Industrial Revolution. Cloth manufacturers “put out” their orders, or subcontracted them, to cottage weavers. Using tallow candles that shed a bright and steady light, cotters worked night and day to fill their orders and saw a modest increase in their standard of living (3).

Due to rising wages, a person could save to buy a better home, or better furniture, or more elegant clothing. With social mobility, every person was responsible for their own station in life. Keeping up with the Joneses was born.

The period preceding the factory production of cloth is aptly named the “Industrious Revolution (3).” It was accompanied by slow but steady economic growth culminating in the modern era of cheap global shipping and runaway consumption.

When living standards rise, beneficiaries are never really content with where they are. There is always someone else who has a better home, a better car, better furniture, or sends their children to better schools, or spends more on cosmetic surgery.

Aspiring to lead a more luxurious life is a treadmill that keeps consumers in debt and constantly working harder to get where everyone else seems to be. This is a positive climate for businesses.

, Advertising, and Artificial Needs

The desire for more goods and services is enabled by modern communication technologies. This played out following the introduction of television to towns in the US West. The rise of petty thefts that followed was motivated by dissatisfaction of viewers with their standard of living compared to that depicted on the small screen (4). In marketing terms, demand for many consumer goods was created overnight.

The same phenomenon occurs on the Internet where users are exposed to luxurious living by celebrities around the globe. Of course, Internet shopping is the ultimate enabler for luxury goods because they are rarely more than a few clicks away.

The desire for luxurious, and status-signaling, products is a powerful motive for workers. Indeed Thorstein Veblen, an early sociologist, argued that “conspicuous consumption” is the main reason that people with money choose to spend it (5).

The carrots of consumption may well be more potent than the sticks of in boosting work effort. Ordinary consumers today behave rather like the elites of the past with the key difference that elites don't need to work. Even the poorest segment of our society give in to cravings for luxury goods from designer watches, shoes, and sunglasses to electronic devices and cars.

Modern societies are something of a rat where people work hard at consuming during their off time and work even harder during their hours on the job so that they can earn enough to pay their bills. The irony is that although we live like the kings of history in terms of material standard of living, we do not recognize this reality (1, 2).

The flavor of this discontent is captured in the witticism that a rising tide lifts all yachts (rather than all boats). Improvements in living conditions in developed countries are real, substantial, and historically unprecedented, although pessimists cannot accept this and focus upon the unequal distribution of wealth.

Life expectancy of US residents doubled in the 20th century, for example, but this fact is lost today in concern over the fact that rich people live longer.

We would also like their money and avarice is a cruel master. Despite having too much, we are tormented by the desire for more knowing that other people are a lot better off than we are.

====== 93 ========

DO YOU HAVE TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING?

The old green paint on our house was chipped and fading, the color chosen years ago by the former owners. So my husband and decided to get the house painted gray with a white trim. We contacted a painter who brought us two books of paint chips with pages and pages of different shades of gray.

Wandering through what seemed like fifty shades of gray, we experienced what psychologists Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward called “the paradox of choice” (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Overwhelmed by all the options, it took us over a week to make our choice.

Psychologists tell us that being able to choose is a sign of autonomy and well-being (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Americans value freedom of choice as fundamental to our democracy, essential to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of .” We want to be free to explore our options, free to choose where we live and work and what we buy. If choice is good, then it follows that more choice is better. Or is it?

Source: By Huguenau. beer and wine aisle of a supermarket. Public domain on Wikimedia Commons.

Research has revealed that too many choices can paralyze us with indecision. Schwartz and Ward mention a supermarket that offers 285 brands of cookies, 230 soups, and 275 types of cereal. I recall the supermarket a scene in the film “Moscow on Hudson.” After years of waiting in line for coffee in Russia, a young defector played by Robin Williams, enters a New York market. Looking around frantically at all the choices in the coffee aisle and repeating “coffee, coffee, coffee,” he passes out from sensory overload.

How many choices are enough? Too much? In 1954, psychologist George Miller published an article about “the magic number seven, plus or minus two,” arguing that we can only keep 5 to 9 items in our working at a time. More than that and it becomes too much to manage.

Our economy presents us with a dizzying array of options, but, as Schwartz and his colleagues have pointed out, people actually feel worse as their choices increase (Schwartz et al, 2002) And now the Internet offers us an endless succession of posts on social , pop-up advertisements, videos, and links.

What’s the effect of all this? Is our culture offering us greater autonomy or distracting us from the important choices in our lives with a dizzying range of consumer choices?

Research has shown that people who “maximize”—trying to make the best possible choice from a wide range of options—experience greater , , self-doubt, and regret than those who “satisfice,” accepting a result good enough to meet their desired criteria (Schwartz et al, 2002).

So the next time you are faced with what seems like an endless array of options, you might want to consider what you’re really looking for. What are the important criteria that would make you satisfied with this choice?

References

Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. The Psychological Review, 63, 81-97.

Schwartz, B., &Ward, A. (2004). Doing better but feeling worse: The paradox of choice. In P. A. Linley & S. Joseph (Eds.). in Practice (pp. 86-104). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Schwartz, B., Ward, A., Monterosso, J, Lyubomirsky, S., White, K., & Lehman, D. (2002). Maximizing versus satisficing: Happiness is a matter of choice. Journal of and Social Psychology, 83, 1178-1197.

====== 94 ========

IS INSTAGRAM MAKING YOU POOR?

There’s a game I like to play whenever I feel the gut-punch of while scrolling through social . I call it, “How much did that selfie cost?” I play this game to remind myself that many people, including my , are spending WAY TOO MUCH MONEY on things that don’t last, often racking up credit-card debt that will keep them up at night for months, all for the glory of that one fabulous photo.

How much did that selfie cost? Usually, the answer is, “Too much,” but that doesn’t necessarily stop us from feeling a twinge of pain when we look at these posts. In fact, evidence has been mounting for a while that social media may cause or increase 1. Short of logging off completely, how’s a person supposed to deal with the onslaught of social comparisons that we face each time we check in with our friends and family? In this article, I'll talk about why we NEED (yes, need) to compare ourselves, and how we can do it in a healthy way.

Comparisons are inevitable

Some people advocate a lifestyle free of comparisons. Just stop, they say, and you’ll be happier and healthier. That’s a nice sentiment, but not very practical. First of all, even if you cut yourself off from all social media, you would still have the daily reminder of other people’s lives and money through their cars, clothes, houses, etc. Long before social media, the Joneses were the target of envy. Now, we have the Joneses, the Kardashians, and everyone in between, but regardless of how or to whom we are comparing, the very ACT of comparing ourselves with others is an innate human activity, and to suggest that we can just stop is to deny the reality of human .

Back in the 1950’s Leon Festinger wrote a groundbreaking paper on 2 that has since become the foundation of an entire branch of psychology. In this work, he laid out considerable evidence for two ideas.

1. “There exists, in the human organism, a drive to evaluate his opinions and his abilities.”3

Simply put, we want to know how we measure up. We need to have a sense of how well we are living; how successfully we are doing this thing called life. The standards by which we judge ourselves may differ wildly depending on our time, our culture, our age, our tastes, etc. but the need to evaluate our life’s progress by some standard is innate and can’t be removed. It’s natural and can be healthy if done right (more on this later).

2. “To the extent that objective, non-social means are not available, people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison respectively with the opinions and abilities of others.”3

There is no objective standard that defines what it means to live well. I can measure my by objective standards like BMI, cholesterol, blood pressure, and the presence or absence of disease. When it comes to lifestyle, there is no metric that marks the line where someone is considered successful. Rather, we are left to define success for ourselves, and often we use our friends, family, colleagues, and even strangers as the scale by which we measure our progress. This can be a problem when it comes to our financial lives.

Comparisons can be toxic

The problem isn’t that we compare ourselves, it’s WHO we choose as the target for comparison. I recently surveyed a group of people about their financial lives, their financial comparisons, and their emotional well-being. What I found was quite interesting.

We tend to compare up, and that brings us down.

Regardless of how poor or wealthy people were, most of them tended to compare themselves with those they thought were better off4. That's understandable when you are on the bottom of the economic ladder (there’s nowhere to look but up), but even those earning top salaries were more likely to judge themselves against those with more. Maybe we think that by looking at those further up the ladder we’ll be motivated to improve ourselves? That’s possible, but the effect of upward comparisons was fairly toxic, from what I could see.

In every income group, people who reported making frequent, upward comparisons also reported having more debt, lower savings, higher levels, and lower satisfaction with their own situation than people who compared themselves with those less fortunate. When asked about the emotions they experienced in their own financial lives, people who compared upward were experiencing significantly more negative feelings than those who did not.

Source: Source: Morningstar, Inc.

Clearly, comparing up isn’t doing us any favors. This suggests that when we scan Instagram or and judge our own lives by the way they compare to those dream vacation photos and shiny new cars all our friends are enjoying, we may be actively sabotaging our own finances. But if Festinger was right, and social comparisons are inevitable, then how are we supposed to avoid doing damage to our hearts and our wallets?

The Exception to the Rule

In my study, there was a small group that defied the trend. Most people said that they usually compared themselves to a friend, family member, neighbor or colleague. All of these comparison targets followed the same trend: upward comparisons were most common, and they were associated with lower financial well-being.

The exception to the rule was a small group of people who said they compare themselves to a role model or mentor. In this group, regardless of whether the role model was better or worse off, financially, the person making the comparison tended to feel good about their own financial life. Not just good, but compared to the rest of the bunch, they felt great!

I followed this study with an experiment where I asked one group of people to choose a financial role model and answer a few questions about them while another group answered questions about their normal comparison targets. Both groups then answered questions about their financial habits and emotions.

The people who thought about a role model were significantly more confident and felt more in control of their financial lives after the exercise than the people who made their normal comparisons. This suggests that, while we can’t get rid of our need to compare, we might be able to make those comparisons work FOR us and not against us.

How to choose a role model (and not have it backfire)

Research into the effects of role models on and behavior suggests that we need to take care when we choose a role model, or the results can backfire5. Penelope Lockwood is a giant in this area of research, and her work suggests that people need to be careful when choosing a role model. According to the results of her studies, people who choose a role model whose success is far beyond what they themselves believe they can realistically achieve can actually become demoralized rather than energized by the comparison. This is why Warren Buffet is probably not a good financial role model. Unless what you admire and want to emulate is his humility and habit of living below his means, then using him as your comparison target will probably do you more harm than good.

So, RIGHT NOW, think about someone whose financial life or behavior you admire. You don’t need to know them or their finances well. The point is to find someone whose lifestyle you admire (even if you only have a glimpse), and that you think you can realistically achieve for yourself over time. Make sure the goal you are setting is realistic, positive, and practical. Anecdotally, when I have done this exercise with strangers, be they online survey participants, friends, colleagues, or financial advisors, there are two things that people seem to admire most:

1. Contentment.

2. A lack of stress over money.

These characteristics likely go hand in hand.

Once you have someone in mind, ask yourself the following questions:

1. What is it about their financial life or behavior that you admire?

2. What qualities or values do you think have led them to their current situation?

3. Do you have (or can you cultivate) any of those qualities or values?

4. What is ONE small thing you can do RIGHT AWAY to be just a little more like them, financially?

5. Picture yourself doing that one thing, even just once.

Role models can help channel our natural need to compare into an action-oriented energy that helps us to make progress toward a real goal. By redirecting our toxic comparisons to this role model, we can (hopefully) avoid the overspending (or under-saving) that can come from trying to keep up with the expensive selfie habits of the masses.

Conclusion

The next time you come across that gut-punch Instagram post, catch yourself. Take a breath and think about the person you just named above. Remind yourself of the qualities you admire in them, and of the good things that are around the corner for you by following in their footsteps. Maybe, then, that expensive selfie won’t seem quite so admirable in comparison.

====== 95 ========

HOW REFLECTING ON OUR POSSESSIONS CAN CURB IMPULSE BUYING

“Wilful waste makes woeful want.” – Mrs. Gaskell, Wives and Daughters, 1866.

A consistent theme of this blog is discussing ways to shop, buy, and consume prudently, and derive maximum pleasure from these activities. Unfortunately, most of us have far too many possessions to fully enjoy or use. Yet we keep adding to our store of belongings in ways big and small. Instead of increasing enjoyment, our possessions overwhelm us and our total pleasure is reduced.

Source: Row of Shoes by Duong Tran Quoc Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

Take the case of shoes. American men own an average of 11 pairs and American women own 13 pairs. Their shoe collection equates to two and a half weeks of income for the average American. Yet, people use only about three pairs regularly and own several shoes they have never worn.

The twentieth-century aphorism, “Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without,” seems laughably quaint and naïve in the light of such excessive shopping activity. We hardly use up or wear our any of our belongings, and instead of making do or doing without, we keep buying new ones.

Can we turn this ship around, so to speak? In this post, I want to write about an interesting finding from a research paper that I coauthored with two Rice University doctoral students, Jihye Jung and Nivriti Chowdhri which suggests one promising method. In the research, we studied the usefulness of a we call “reflection” to reduce people's shopping urges. It can be used “just in time” – right when an urge to buy something is experienced.

Reflection is about thinking deeply and remembering in detail how you used any one of your possessions recently. In our research, we’ve found it helps if the reflected-upon possession is something functional, like a kitchen implement, a lawn-mower or a wristwatch. Here’s the instruction from one of our studies which included 165 participants:

“In this exercise, your task is to describe your recent experience with a product. Specifically, we would like you to think of any product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 1: Take a minute and think of a product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 2: In a few sentences, please describe this product in detail. Step 3: Now we want you to describe how you used the product on the most recent occasion. In the space provided below, explain WHEN, WHERE, HOW, and HOW LONG you used this product. Please describe your experience with the product in as much detail as possible, and please spend at least TWO MINUTES on this task.”

And here are two examples of our participants’ reflections to give you a better sense of the exercise:

Source: Shoe Wardrobe by Jakob Owens Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

“I have a pair of light Nike running shoes I used this morning. I bought them about a year ago for about $80. The reason I bought them was because my brother has a same pair which I tried on and really liked so I bought my own. I used them this morning to go for a run. I went for a run around the neighborhood for half an hour. I really like these shoes because they're really light and they breathe easy. I use them to go on runs. Sometimes I use them at work since I do a lot of walking and they are so comfortable.” (25-year-old male).

“I just purchased a Kindle Fire. It is black. I can read books and access the internet. It opens a world of novelty to me. I read a book in bed and checked the weather this morning before even getting up. I spent about 45 mins. I also downloaded several apps. I was laying down and the ease of Kindle use allowed me to comfortably read without noise to wake up my partner.” (29-year-old female).

The study had two other conditions. One was a control condition in which participants didn’t do anything. In the other condition, they formed a plan to use a possession they hadn’t recently used, which is a common situation many of us face because we have so many things we haven't used recently.

After this experimental manipulation, study participants were given a series of five products. These were a cashmere sweater, a stainless steel watch, a coffee maker, a chair, and a box of Godiva chocolates. For each item, participants indicated how much they were willing to pay (WTP) for it. We calculated a WTP index for each participant, by standardizing each item’s WTP and then adding the values.

Source: Reflection study results/ Graphic by Utpal Dholakia

As the figure shows, those who had reflected on using their possession recently had a much lower willingness-to-pay for a basket of products than either the control or the plan conditions. To give you a sense of the actual numbers, the total WTP for the five items of those who reflected was $227, compared to $265 for the control group and $281 for the planning group. In other words, reflection about recently used possessions lowered the person’s willingness-to-pay for new items by about 14% compared to the control condition.

Reflection is like a mental “shopping the closet” visualization, and a useful way to stifle the urge to buy new things. Why does this effect occur? That will be the subject of a future blog post.

====== 96 ========

DEMOCRATS FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGING SECULAR VOTERS

Source: DonkeyHotey, Flickr, Creative Commons license

The recent midterm elections reflect the increasing clout of secular voters, a group that has grown significantly in recent years, and at least one major party is starting to take note.

According to polling data released by Pew, 17 percent of voters in 2018 were religiously unaffiliated, up from only 11 percent in 2006 and 12 percent in both 2010 and 2014. While this unaffiliated bloc grew by about half, the “Protestant/other Christian” bloc was shrinking, down from 55 percent in 2006 and 2010, to 53 percent in 2014, to only 47 percent this year.

As impressive as these figures are for the religiously unaffiliated (also known as “Nones”), the numbers suggest that there is room for even more growth. The 17 percent figure, for example, still trails the overall size of the religiously unaffiliated demographic nationwide (24 percent of the United States population as a whole, according to PRRI data, and an even larger percentage of the younger population). The Nones were in single digits a generation ago, but now they are one of the largest and youngest demographics.

The growth of the influence of Nones would appear to be good news for Democrats, as recent history shows that the unaffiliated tend to lean heavily blue. In the 2010, 2014 and 2018 midterms, about seven in ten Nones voted Democratic. By comparison, 50 percent of Catholics votes for Democrats in 2018, and slightly fewer in 2010 and 2014. Protestants have favored Republicans in each of the last four midterm elections, according to the Pew data, with white evangelicals being the most solidly in the GOP corner (75 percent in 2018 and similar figures in previous years).

For anyone familiar with the culture wars, none of these numbers should be very surprising. The Religious Right has called the GOP home since 1980 when the Majority helped elect Ronald Reagan, and the party has consistently courted the conservative Christian demographic ever since. Opposing abortion rights and LGBT rights, denying scientific consensus on issues like evolution and global warming when it conflicts with literal interpretations of the Bible, Republicans have frequently snubbed the secular demographic while catering to the party’s Christian base. As such, it’s no surprise that those who say they “never” go to church voted 68/30 for Democrats in 2018, according to the Pew data, whereas those who attend church weekly voted for Republicans 58/40.

Despite the GOP's romance with the Christian right, over the years the Democratic Party has never openly pursued the nonreligious demographic. On the contrary, elected Democrats have usually been older, oblivious the growing secularity of the population, and they’ve often accepted the much-repeated but inaccurate claim that America is a “very religious country.” Although a large and growing portion of the American population is secular, and even many who claim religious affiliation are lukewarm about it, establishment Democrats have unfortunately been slow on the uptake.

Finally, however, there are signs that Democrats are starting to appreciate the importance of the Nones. In what might be a first, the Massachusetts Democratic Party this month passed a resolution recognizing the importance of the religiously unaffiliated demographic. (Full disclosure: I was involved in drafting the resolution.) The resolution, which can be seen here, recognizes the “value, ethical soundness, and importance of the religiously unaffiliated” and affirms that “the ‘Nones’ are a group that, as much as any other, advocates for rational public policy based on sound science and universal humanistic values.” The document is also critical of the use of claims of “religious liberty” as a means of justifying policy that threatens the rights of women and minorities.

Time will tell whether other states, or even the national party, will follow the Massachusetts lead, but it seems clear that many are starting to recognize that the secular demographic is not going away. Earlier this year, for example, several members of Congress even formed a Congressional Freethought Caucus to solidify the presence of secular values on Capitol Hill. Perhaps not surprisingly, all members of the caucus so far are Democrats.

As the secular demographic grows and flexes its muscle, time will tell whether the GOP makes an effort to attract them. Seculars are not monolithic, so traditional Republican mantras of low taxes and deregulation might resonate with some, but the secular numbers within the GOP are likely to remain relatively low so long as the Christian right is steering the ship. As such, if demographics continue to trend secular, at some point Republicans will have to consider whether there is a future in Bible-based .

On : @ahadave

====== 97 ========

7 REASONS WHY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE HAVING LESS SEX

In our highly sexualized and increasingly permissive culture, you might think that young adults are having more than ever before. If so, you would be wrong.

In a lengthy and very popular cover story in the December 2018 issue of The Atlantic magazine, “The Sex Recession,” Kate Julian argues that “young people are launching their sex lives later and having sex less frequently than members of previous generations.” The question is why.

Among the evidence Julian cites:

“In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t.”

"People now in their early 20s are two and a half times as likely to be abstinent as Gen Xers were at that age; 15 percent report having had no sex since they reached adulthood.”

In the U.S., “about 60 percent of adults under age 35 now live without a spouse or a partner.” (Of course, that does not mean they live without sex – more on that later.)

In Japan in 2015, 43 percent of young people (ages 18 to 34) were virgins. Married people were not having much sex, either: 47 percent said it had been more than a month since they had sex.

Julian mentioned in passing many possible reasons for what she calls “the sex recession,” but underscored 6 as having come up most often in her research and interviews. (She combined parental pressure with hook-up culture; I’m separating them. I’ve also changed the order of the reasons.) I’ll recount her reasons first. Then I will add a 7th reason, my own. I’ll also explain what I think Julian got wrong. I’ll end by suggesting that the real issue is one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology: What are humans really like?

Here are The Atlantic’s top 6 reasons for the sexual recession.

1. Parental Pressure

It’s their ’ fault. That’s one of the reasons author Kate Julian posits for the decline in sex among young adults. Invoking the term of derision, “helicopter parents,” she says that parents’ “about their children’s educational and economic prospects” has increased. Parents are urging their kids to focus on building their credentials in high school and college rather than investing in . They are also supervising their kids more closely, leaving them with less free time for fooling around away from watchful eyes.

2. Bodily Self-consciousness, Distraction, Deprivation, and Other Sources of Inhibition

Young adults may be having less sex because their potential for being aroused is being undermined in many ways. Digital distractions are among the most obvious potential culprits. Sleep deprivation doesn’t help, either. Having a negative , or feeling self-conscious about your naked body, can also stand in the way of sexual fulfillment, and Julian suggests that today’s young adults may struggle more with these issues.

If, as some have suggested, anxiety and are on the rise in the younger generations, that, too, could account for some of the decrease in sex. Anti-depressants can also undermine sexual desire.

3. The Problem with Apps

It might seem like the proliferation of dating apps has made it easier to find dating partners, but that is not necessarily so. Kate Julian found that Tinder tends to be a huge waste of time. It takes an average of more than 60 swipes to get one match, and many matches do not result in a 2-way exchange of text-messages.

And, of course, the matches are not evenly distributed. The “highly photogenic” people, as Julian tactfully puts it, are the ones finding dating apps most useful.

The expectation that people will use dating apps to connect with other people has, Julian believes, a troubling implication. The kinds of casual overtures that people used to make, now seem creepy. Apparently, that even applies to striking up conversations in bars.

If dating apps are wildly inefficient and ineffective, and it is problematic to ask people out (even if you have gotten to know them a bit, for example, by working in the same building or playing on the same ), then finding opportunities to have sex is going to be difficult, too.

4. Hook-ups Instead of Romantic Relationships

If young people were having copious amounts of hook-up sex, then maybe their overall rates of sex would not be decreasing, even though they are dating less often and are less likely to have special romantic relationships. Actual rates of casual sex, though, have not lived up to the hype.

Here is Kate Julian’s summary of the findings from Lisa Wade’s book, American Hookup: The New Culture of Sex on Campus:

“Roughly one-third were…”abstainers” – they opted out of hook-up culture entirely. A little more than a third were “dabblers” – they hooked up sometimes, but ambivalently. Less than a quarter were “enthusiasts,” who delighted in hooking up. The remainder were in long-term relationships.”

The percentages probably translate into something like this:

33 percent, abstainers

35 percent, dabblers

23 percent, enthusiasts

9 percent, long-term relationships

5. Sex Is Bad or Painful More Often Than We Realize

Another reason the rate of sex may be decreasing is that, more often than we realize, the sex that young adults are having is bad sex or painful sex. They are also more willing to say “no thanks” to having any more of it.

Young adults are experiencing more of the kinds of sex that is popularized in , such as anal sex and choking (erotic asphyxiation). Julian points to a study showing that the percent of women in their late 20s who had tried anal sex had doubled from 20 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 2012. Research shows, she says, that “in the absence of high-quality sex , teen boys look to porn for help sex.”

Plenty of women are not enjoying anal sex or vaginal intercourse. In 2012, Julian notes, 30 percent of women experienced pain during vaginal intercourse and a whopping 72 percent said that the anal sex they experienced was painful.

Orgasms in the context of hookups with a new partner are strikingly rare. In the study Julian described, just 31 percent of men and a jaw-droppingly low 11 percent of women experienced under those conditions.

One of the sex researchers Julian interviewed, Debby Herbenick, suggests a positive interpretation of the decline in the frequency with which young people are having sex. Today’s adults feel freer to say no to sex they don’t want.

Julian also believes that women are now valuing their female more. She seems to attribute that to their disappointment with men and romantic relationships. (I think that interpretation, on its own, is demeaning. My reading of the relevant information is that appreciation for our friends is growing, even apart from any bad experiences with heterosexual romantic relationships.)

6. People Are Satisfying Their Sexual Desires, Just Not with Other People

Although rates of intercourse have been decreasing – the main finding that the Atlantic article was trying to explain – that doesn’t mean that people are not experiencing sexual pleasure. One of the studies Julian mentioned found dramatic increases in rates of from 1992 to 2014 – double for men (in 2014, 54 percent said that they masturbated in a given week) and more than triple for women (26 percent).

The increase could be linked to the greater accessibility of porn over time. Other products and services that facilitate sexual experiences without involving other humans are also becoming more popular – sex dolls, for example.

Stop Blaming Single People

Kate Julian said she started out expecting to say more about “the benefits of loosening social conventions, and of less couple-centric pathways to a happy life.” But she ended up focusing on other concerns instead. One problem, I think, is that her sources were comprised overwhelmingly of people who were not ever going to offer an affirming perspective on single life.

Perhaps she relied on what those people told her and did not read the relevant original sources. These claims that she made, for example, are somewhere between misleading and just plain wrong:

“Not having a partner – sexual or romantic – can be both a cause and effect of discontent. Moreover, as American social institutions have withered, having a life partner has become a stronger predictor than ever of well-being.”

No, getting married does not improve people’s or

You would think, from reading those claims, that people who marry become happier and healthier. But by 2012, there were already 18 studies that followed the same people over time, as they went from being single to getting married. They did not become happier than they were when they were single, except sometimes for a brief “honeymoon effect” early on. The most recent and most sophisticated studies show that people who marry do not become healthier, either, and depending on the measure, sometimes become less healthy.

What about Julian’s claim about the growing importance, over time, of having a life partner? If she were right about that, then should be linked to greater well-being for younger people than for older ones. A 2017 study by Dmitri Tumin examined the links between marriage and health for people born in the decades starting in 1955, 1965, and 1975. Getting married did not mean getting healthier for the men or the women in any of the three cohorts.

Tumin looked at his data in all sorts of ways, but only found one hint that getting married was good for health: Among the oldest women (those born between 1955 and 1964), those who married for the first time and stayed married for at least 10 years become slightly healthier than when they were single. But for the comparable women in the middle group (born between 1965 and 1974), there were no health benefits whatsoever. And for the youngest group (born between 1975 and 1984), there was a slight, though statistically insignificant, deterioration in their health after marrying. That’s just the opposite of what Julian claimed.

Frequency of sex is declining most for married people, not singles

Perhaps the most relevant finding is about the rate of sex, over time, among single and married people. Analyses of survey data from 1989 through 2014 showed that Americans today are having less sex. More importantly, as I noted in my discussion of the results of that study:

“The decline in sexual frequency was not the same for everyone. The decrease in having sex was especially steep for people who were married or divorced and much less so (if at all) for lifelong single people.”

Maybe instead of spending 15 printed magazine pages explaining the decreasing frequency of sex among young adults, most of whom are single, Julian should have instead focused more of her on married people. Why is it that their rates of sex are decreasing the most?

7. (My suggestion, not The Atlantic’s) The Rise of Individualism Means That People Have More Opportunities to Live the Lives They Want, Not the Ones Dictated by Norms or Pressures

The first sentence of “The Sex Recession” was, “These should be boom times for sex.” Continuing, Kate Julian added:

“The share of Americans who say sex between unmarried adults is “not at all wrong” is at an all-time high. New cases of HIV are at an all-time low. Most women can – at last – get birth control for free, and the morning-after pill without a prescription. [With regard to practices such as polyamory and anal sex]...our culture has never been more tolerant of sex in just about every permutation.”

And yet, the frequency with which young people are having sex is declining. So is the rate at which married people are having sex.

Perhaps one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology is, what is human ? What are humans really like? It would be impossible to remove every social pressure, every norm, every obligation, and just see how people act. But as more and more constraints get lifted, such as the ones Julian described, we can edge a little closer to seeing what humans would do if left to their own devices.

“Our for sex is supposed to be primal,” Julian noted, and yet people often “pick messing around online over actual messing around.” Maybe, she suggests, “the human sex drive is more fragile than we thought.” Also consistent with that interpretation is the growing recognition of asexuality as a sexual orientation and not a sexual dysfunction.

Julian quotes Emily Nagoski, author of Come as You Are, who has an apt answer to all the talk about how fundamental sex is:

====== 98 ========

YOU ARE (NOT) RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWING EVERYTHING

I was catching up with my friend Helen at a coffee shop in Chicago. Beautiful and , Helen is the kind of person you take one look at and you just know she has it all together. She tells me she has never struggled with at any point in her life. She was good at academics. She felt good about how she looked. She was self-assured socially and in her .

Then she became a mother.

“My confidence was destroyed. That was when I first felt incompetent,” Helen told me. “I had always felt competent at work and in my life, and that made me feel confident. It took me about three years to realize what was going on as a mother. I didn’t feel confident about my choices, I didn’t feel confident about my plans.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Well, I would ask myself, ‘Is this going to result in the outcome I’m looking for?’ And there’s no manual for that.”

“So what outcome are you looking for?”

“I want a successful child, right? I want a happy kid, and I want a successful kid. I didn’t know if I was making all the right choices. I actually feel like we parent in the age of a ton of research. So you have no excuse either. You can't fly blind. If you're flying blind, It’s because you're not doing your job. You're not reading and you're not doing your job.”

Source: Rawpixel on Unsplash

“Wow, that is a big job. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I research. Research helps us understand and those insights can really help. But, somehow, the way you talk about research feels like a terrible burden.”

“Exactly,” Helen went on, “I almost feel like the preponderance of literature out there actually makes it worse, because I feel responsible to know the answer. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a one year old. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a three year old. I've always said ‘I wish I had a manual that would tell me how I should react in every situation.’ But in some ways, we almost have that and that's what's killing us. I know what I should be doing and and I feel like I have to have the answer at every moment and I just don’t. I don’t.”

“Well that is quite a ShouldStorm right there!” I responded. We laughed and took a sip of our coffees. “So, I think you are saying that having the right, research-based answer in each specific situation is what would make you feel confident.”

“Yes,” she said emphatically, “The responsibility to all the literature out there is killing us. There is a world of literature out there and I know if I just look hard enough, I can find those answers.” Helen looked tired.

“That’s really interesting, because I am a pediatrician and have studied extensively, and I don’t have all of those answers.”

Source: Photo by Eliabe Costa on Unsplash

What if we did have a manual for every situation?

Helen had just described something I had identified through my work: one of the three untrue laws of the Shouldstorm. Untrue Law #1: We need to get it right, all the time. Often we don’t realize we believe this, but we act like we do. We criticize ourselves or feel burdened by worry if we don’t get it just right in each situation as parents. Even if you recognize that this is being too hard on ourselves, we still wish we could do it.

Now, for a moment, imagine this from your child’s perspective. Your parents tell you that they love you no matter what, and that it’s okay to make mistakes. But they are hard on themselves if they don’t get it just right all the time. Will you believe them? Will you be confused and wonder if they mean it about loving you? Won’t you think that really the rule is to get it just right all the time? Won’t it make you worry?

Helen wants a successful, happy child. I am certain that a successful child is not a child who has to know exactly what to do in each circumstance. That is a burdened and unhappy child.

What Research is For (Hint: It’s not Cyber-Chondria)

Research findings can be profoundly helpful to us, but that depends on how we view them. When research (which has advanced our ) becomes a burden, an obligation and a long list of shoulds, it robs is of the core of what makes us good parents. Well designed scientific research is a genuine good— if we understand it for what it is. Research is a tool; a knowledge base and a way of producing knowledge. Here’s the thing about tools: they are only as a good as the way we use them.

In September 2017, the BBC reported a growing problem: cyber-chondria. They reported that a of researchers had found that “Worrying excessively about , and going for unnecessary appointments and tests, is a growing problem - fueled by looking up symptoms on the internet.” This “health ” even produced physical symptoms like persistent chest pains and headaches. We doctors call that somatization, and we see anxiety producing physical symptoms quite often in pediatric practice.

"Dr Google is very informative, but he doesn't put things in the right proportion,” they observed. Not even the doctor’s reassurance relieved the patient’s worry. The researchers found that the answer was not more tests, or making their doctor read all the articles the worried patients were reading, but rather anxiety-reducing .

This shows up in parents too. Untrue Law of the ShouldStorm #1 convinces us as parents that We need to get it right, all the time. Part of that is feeling like we need to know. Some of us choose the research, some of us choose talking to our neighbors and doing what they do, some of us read online groups. And it creates a terrible unsettled feeling that something is wrong with us and our kids.

Let’s walk out of the ShouldStorm and free our kids, as we free ourselves, from the burden of having to know it all. Real confidence is about . Real success is about being safe in our own skins, not jumping out of them from anxiety. A truly happy child, a truly happy parent is able to connect and enjoy other people, undistracted by nagging fears. The more we try to get it just the way we should, the more rigid we become. The Shoulds cut us off from our kids, and that’s nobody’s idea of success.

Is it possible to use research to help our ?

How can we use the wonderful advances child development knowledge in a way that builds our confidence? We can start by watching our sources.

Websites: Watch out! I give my patients a list of reliable websites and steer them away from the ones that raise anxiety. In general, good advice equips and bad advice makes you anxious. When in doubt try the AAP for parent questions or the CDC for reliable medical science.

Social : Double watch out! Social media can connect you with supportive who care for you or share encouraging articles. Or it can introduce you to misinformation and criticism straight from the ShouldStorm. Is your heart rate going up and your breathing getting shallow? You probably just got shoulded on.

Your pediatrician: We love you and your kids. We took an oath and we meant it. We are committed to helping you do a great job. But try to go easy on us, because, as the BBC reports: "People now go to their GPs with a whole list of things they've looked up on the internet, and the poor GP, five minutes into the consultation, has four pages of reading to do.”

====== 99 ========

THE VERY HUMAN FUTURE OF TV IN AN AGE OF AI

Source: Secret Cinema

A couple of months ago, I was invited to speak at the Edinburgh TV Festival, as part of the “How to Win the Future” session with futurist Monika Bielskyte and blockchain-for-TV startup founder Ashley Turing, moderated by the Irish comedian and TV show host Dara O’Briain.

I spoke about the need for romanticism in business, which was less of a foreign concept than at other industry events in which I have taken part. Television is a romantic business: Inherently, it’s all about imagining other worlds and creating meaning through powerful storytelling; it’s about adventure, drama, extreme emotions, and human connections.

Disrupted by FAANGs and AI

The industry is nervous, though: Both public broadcasters and increasingly also pay-TV that the so-called FAANGs ( , Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) might be eating their lunch. In Edinburgh, just before our session, Labor Party Jeremy Corbyn even proposed a “journalism tax” for tech companies.

Further, (AI) has arisen as a threat to the very heart of TV—storytelling. While AI is already superior in process automation and data processing, it is now also invading inherently human turf: and emotions. We have already seen AI-composed music, fashion design, journalism, even paintings, poetry, movies, and more. While the results are not convincing yet, the impetus of data-driven “forced reductionism,” to use Joichi Ito’s term, will undoubtedly affect TV as well.

There are two scenarios: We can use AI to enhance human ingenuity and creative expression; or we can use it to end up in a dystopian, uber-algorithmic content farm where we essentially get to consume the data we produce.

Storytellers have seen this looming conflict all along, but their visions have mostly been lopsided toward the dystopian: War of the Worlds, The Matrix, Minority Report, Her, 1984, The Lobster, Ex Machina, Frankenstein, The Truman Show, Westworld, and Black Mirror, to mention just a few. As Monika Bielskyte pointed out in her talk, when we imagine the future, we tend to do it in dystopian terms. She illustrated her point by showing us the Google results for “utopian cities”: Even that term yielded a collection of images that look like Gotham.

There is never going to be a shortage of or outright cynicism. This is why in this day and age, storytellers have a right and a responsibility to inspire and provoke, not simply to depress their audiences so they turn away. In fact, what should give the TV networks hope is the very fact that they can give us hope and an impetus to make change.

This can start by creating positive narratives for AI, featuring an AI as a warm, friendly, trusted, and perhaps even funny character — a pursuit that novelist and Hollywood consultant Aditi Khorana recently facilitated in a workshop at the House of Beautiful Business conference.

Connecting us with the other

Moreover, TV makers should remember that at its best TV is a shared experience that fosters and belonging, forms and meaning, and strengthens citizenship and diversity. Television is still a powerful medium when it comes to showing us and connecting us with “the other,” and in our fragmented or divided societies this capacity is ever more important.

No wonder diversity and inclusion were critical topics in Edinburgh. The TV industry has powerful means to strengthen it: first of all, it can produce content that shows the full range of humanity, from the local pub in Brighton to a micro-enterprise in Nairobi, different cultures, ethnicities, generations, and identities, especially those that are fluid, non-binary, contradictory. Second, it can feature a diverse cast of characters and create more roles for these identities both on camera and off. “Representation starts both in front of and behind the camera,” Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina told Variety in a new interview.

Moreover, stories will become even more powerful in the future as we will have more unstructured time on our hands and may need more of both on the human condition and a device to escape from it. Storytellers can use AI and Artificial Emotional Intelligence (AEI) to augment, celebrate, and shape their stories.

Here are some ideas for TV makers:

Co-create stories with AI. AI can compile plot options based on AEI (scanning and analyzing human emotions) and/or the personal input and track record of humans, aggregated data, and predictive analytics. It can thus help crowdsource content and narratives and inspire human participation. AI could help personalize VR/AR and other immersive content: AEI, volumetric capture (as used by the award-winning Movie Vestige), AI avatars, or transmedia storytelling can make us feel more and create stronger emotions as well as perhaps even new emotions. We humans like to gather. Can the collective, social experience of TV be the ultimate differentiator and humanizer? What’s the Secret Cinema of TV? What does “TV-as-experience” look like? Aside from public viewing or gamification, are there business models such as virtual viewing communities or even co-viewing spaces similar to co-working spaces? Is there room for a “WeView”? Make it realer than real. In-the-Real-Life still beats AI, from Twitch to life-streaming (e.g. Ice Poseidon) to the ultimate gamification and reality TV of life. Stretch and overcome time: from time-shifting (DVR) to bingewatching (Netflix) to "holotime" (the past, present, and future of characters and viewers intertwined). What if TV networks co-monetized with viewers (based on their true data sovereignty)? What if they used AI and Blockchain technology to empower consumers to hold on to their personal data and consumption data and sell it to advertisers/networks, or give it away to non-profits to enhance social impact storytelling? Can there maybe be a token-based revenue share between networks, talent, and data-sovereign viewers? Is there a market for the Mozilla ("Internet for people, not profit") of TV (the anti-FAANG, so to speak; see Facebook’s patent to eavesdrop on TV consumption) with the result of more loyal audiences in the long run?

The only way to beat AI is to create stories that AI doesn’t know yet. If we do so, then TV can remind us of what it means to be human.

Only then will we look at the screen and still see ... us.

====== 100 ========

WHAT'S YOUR STORY? LIFE AS NARRATIVE

Source: unsplash

Whether or not we are truly inventors of our own lives, we certainly are inventors of the story of our lives. For some, this story is clear and in the forefront of their minds, becoming what drives them, what determines how they spend their time and energy. For many others the story is less clear, fragmented, or seemingly outside their awareness but often easily seen by others: Jake always casts himself as the victim, Sara the martyr, Carly always thinks things will work out for the best, while Henry is always braced for the worst.

Our story is shaped by the stories of others, those important to us who were not only role models but who also doled out their own particular philosophies of life. And of course, there are our own experiences and values. Our story becomes the lens through which we view life’s events, our with others; it determines what can expect of ourselves and life itself.

So, what’s your story? Here are some questions to help you define yours. As you answer them, think not in terms how you think things ought to be, but rather how you think and behave in everyday life.

How safe is the world, and other people?

This is about trust, about and . Bad things happen out of the blue; the other shoe always drops; others are out to screw you or scam you. You need to be cautious, alert, take what people say with a grain of salt, trust your family or your kind, but be wary of everyone else.

Or no, sure there are always some bad apples, even dangerous people, but most people are good, considerate, willing to help or at least turn the other cheek. Sure, bad things happen, but also a lot of good things happen as well if we just look for them. You don’t want to be naïve, but it’s okay to trust and believe that things will or can be worked out.

How do you treat others?

This obviously follows from the first. If the world is unsafe, if others can’t be fully trusted and you are wary, you hold back, you keep your distance. Or no, your stance is more aggressive than that: it’s every man / woman for his or her self. Or there’s a middle ground of politeness and courtesy to those you don’t know, if not necessarily a friendliness. Or your values, , and outlook cause you to reach out, always give the other guy the benefit of the doubt, and, if possible, a helping hand. The world is our family.

What’s your measure of or success?

For some it is measured by the attainment of in the bigger world — achievement in a , wealth, professional reputation. For others it may be a contentment that comes from the support and love of family, ; for it may be measured by the happiness of their children. For still others happiness is not measured by outcome but by doing — being creative or doing what gives you meaning, competing against your rivals and hopefully coming out on top, or some combination of all the above.

Think of what you strive or hope for, but also what brings you happiness in the everyday.

How do you reach your measure of happiness / success?

You put your head down, stay focused on the goal, and work hard. No, you follow your instincts, your imagination, those wisps of , your . Or you succeed by helping others succeed — encouraging and supporting them in their own quest for happiness, being the best role model you can be. Or no, you reach your goals by keeping an eye on your rivals and making the most of their weaknesses.

Why do bad things happen?

They just do; they help us see and appreciate the good; there is really no bad but only what we decide to call bad; it is God’s will, God’s test for us; they are pay-backs for our wrongs. We don’t know.

What is the purpose of life, your life?

See above.

Do you have major regrets, ? How has it shaped your view of life, your image of yourself?

Regrets and guilt can certainly teach us lessons, but often their wounding overshadows and outlasts the . Think of that poor secret service agent who 40 years later is still haunted and feeling responsible for the death of John Kennedy, and still unable to himself. Regrets and guilt can cause us to stay stuck in the past, feel that we are not entitled to happiness, drastically turn our view of life and ourselves upside down.

If you were to pick one word to describe the overall tone of your life what would it be?

As you work through these questions, is there a theme? If you had a pick a song to be the soundtrack of your life, what would that song be?

In one sentence, what advice would you most want to pass onto your children, your grandchildren?

So, what have you discovered? What is the story that you consciously or unconsciously tell yourself about the of relationships, the world? How has this story shaped your expectations and defined your purpose and about your life and life itself?

One final question: Do you want to keep your story, or do you want to change it?

====== 101 ========

SPRINTING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE

Your kids likely fell in the house for the Thanksgiving holiday yearning for a break—wanting to luxuriate in the comfort of their bed for long hours, ready to savor home cooked meals, and eager for opportunities to dash out and see their from home. Who can blame them? They have likely logged about twelve weeks of classes and stomached some gross stuff in the dining hall and had their fair share of social disappointments at college. Nevertheless, most students experience a mixture of feelings with the anticipation of returning to campus. They are generally eager to regain the independence they have cultivated and to hang out with college buddies with whom they are experimenting with their new sense of self. Yet, without a doubt they are stressed about what is to come in the next few weeks---final exams and projects and trying to make it to the finish line intact.

Source: Tim Gouw/ Unsplash

As a college professor for over twenty years, I can say with great certainty that this becomes a trying time for everyone. Students as well as faculty have gotten that glorious taste of a bit of rest and relaxation, more time with family and friends and a bit more indulgence. It is hard to regain the energy for the last push of the semester which is completely necessary to finish with greater success. The Thanksgiving holiday becomes a bit of a tease—-like those tiny bags of pretzels on an airplane when you are actually starving. So, when they head back to school, students can benefit by doing the following:

====== 102 ========

AN OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK AND THE FIRST MEMORIES OF LIFE

Source: Pixabay

In June, while attending a professional conference in Toronto, I decided to take a break and go for a swim at the hotel pool. As I was signing in and picking up a towel, the pool attendant warmly greeted me. She seemed genuinely interested in how I was doing and hoped that I was enjoying my stay at the hotel. We talked for a few minutes, and I learned that Julianna was 20 years old and studying to become a masseuse. While I was swimming, several other patrons entered the pool area, and I noticed that Julianna also graciously welcomed each person with a warm smile and brief conversation.

Julianna's behavior stood out to me because she seemed to make an effort to provide a few special moments for the individuals who showed up at the pool. I wanted to know more about her, and after my swim, I asked Julianna if she would be willing to share one of her first with me. She readily agreed, and I wrote down the following. "The first thing that I remember is playing outside at recess. There were dolls on the playground that seemed to revolve around. I played on the swings a lot, and I fell off the swing that day." I asked her, "What part do you remember most in the memory?" Julianna, responded, "How I felt when I was on the swing. It was one of the happiest moments of my life at that time."

After Julianna rendered her early recollection, I said that I would try to say something about its possible meaning. I began by stating, "You have an outlook on life, and you try to make the best out of situations and often find them to be special." She nodded in agreement, "This is how I am." I added, "At the same time, your and other people in your life tease you in a friendly way about your persistent level of optimism." Julianna laughed heartily: "This happens a lot."

I then asked Julianna one more question. "How are you so optimistic given all the ups and downs that we all face in life?" She related, "I am sentimental and it is natural for me. There are a lot of soulless people, and I haven't lost my soul." At that point, it started to get busy at the counter, and I thought that it would be best if we talked more at a later point. Julianna said that she was working the next day and looked forward to seeing me again.

When I came to the swimming pool early the next day, I was told that Julianna would not be on duty until the afternoon. Unfortunately, I had a plane to catch and soon had to leave the hotel. I did not get to see her again. In reflecting on Julianna's first memory, I wondered about her statement about "the soul" and its relationship to optimism and early recollections. Intuitively, I thought that it may have something to do with maintaining a childlike wonder and enjoying what life offers in the moment. At the same time, I needed to hear directly from Julianna on a face-to-face basis about her perception of life.

We all have an opportunity to learn more from people like Julianna. Perhaps it may be the service worker we see regularly who always seems to be in a good mood. There may be a neighbor, a friend, or a relative that stands out for maintaining a positive outlook on life. In my experience, often these individuals relate early recollections that are optimistic and seem to provide an emotionally uplifting quality. Follow-up conversations can be enlightening relating to how such persons sustain a sense of hopefulness despite encountering adversities in living. We need to hear more from those who have a "natural" optimistic outlook in their early memories and in their way of being.

====== 103 ========

I DIDN'T SAY THAT! YOU MUST BE IMAGINING IT

Source: Photo by rawpixel

"Are you wearing that dress to dinner?" My friend Amy can say that with just the right tone of voice. You know the one that lets you know she is in disbelief that you would actually do such a horrible thing. But what happens if you call her on it? "Amy, you don't like my dress?" She responds, "I didn't say that." She didn't say the words, true, but she indirectly implied that my choice of attire was completely unacceptable.

There's lots of ways that "You are so wrong but I didn't say that" communication is used. Questions about something that you know they already know is one example. "Have you bought your mother's birthday gift yet?" sounds innocent enough if you just look at or listen to the words. But with the right tone and context (your wife knows you haven't bought the gift) it's actually an implied criticism. The speaker's intentions are hidden in a way they can be denied. Instead of saying, "You're mother's birthday is tomorrow and once again you haven't bothered to get a gift," asking the question gets the same message across and the speaker can claim there's no criticism intended. The speaker claims innocence and avoids responsibility for their criticism. "All I did was ask a question. What's wrong with you today?"

Implied criticism can also be found in offers of help. "I can help you with baking," said when you bring banana bread to the office, clearly implies that your banana bread is a failure. A more subtle implied criticism would be, "I always find sour cream helps banana bread stay moist." If you confront the person, it's easy for her to say, "I was only trying to help." "There are art classes available at the community center," is a thumbs down review of your latest painting. But of course the person who offers that suggestion sees herself as trying to help. Even compliments can be put downs. When Gloria tells Jim, in front of Greg her husband, that Jim is the most thoughtful spouse she knows, she's also saying that her husband is not as thoughtful. But if Greg comments, Gloria can say, "It wasn't about you, can't I compliment Jim?"

Implied criticism has advantages to the speakers. They say what they think in an indirect way, usually something critical, and at the same time can deny they intended to give the message that you heard. It's not their fault you're upset--you're over reacting or hearing something they didn't say.

How do you cope with implied criticism? If the individual regularly criticizes you in this way, you'll probably pull back and start to avoid the person. You'll lose trust because they aren't being honest about what they are communicating. For some , you may prefer to do this. At the same time, it's possible the individual isn't aware of how his communication is received and truly sees himself as trying to help. If the relationship is one you want to keep, then asking directly may be the best way to save a relationship that is important to you. "Are you saying that you don't like my banana bread?" "No, not at all, I was just giving a suggestion." "Okay, just checking because it wasn't clear." If you regularly ask the other person to clarify his meaning, you'll probably see a change. But even if you don't, you won't be as frustrated.

====== 104 ========

SAY GOODBYE: IT'S TURKEY DROP TIME

Cold weather and the holiday season are upon us, and apparently, so too are the tough relationship decisions. Should you stay or should you go? Now, it seems, is peak decision time.

Yes, we're entering prime break-up season. College students everywhere are heading home for Thanksgiving and returning to school, single. And is it only college students? Probably not. The winter and its many romantic holidays (e.g., Christmas, New Year's Eve, Valentine's Day) are on the horizon, making now a good time for unhappy people to make a change.

The Turkey Drop

The Turkey Drop is the catchy phrase that aptly captures the spike in romantic break-ups that occurs annually in late fall. Data from McCandless and Byron, who examined changes in status, corroborate the Turkey Drop. A dramatic rise in romantic break-ups seems to occur during the few weeks leading up to the Christmas holiday.1

On one hand, it seems rather heartless: initiating a break-up so close to the holidays. However, around Thanksgiving may be the first chance that freshmen have to make the break in person, rather than over text, the phone, or Skype. By late-November, the challenges that come with long-distance may have taken their toll, and new social circles may make the prospect of single-life appealing. Relationships that once felt like forever relationships, now might feel like they belonged to younger, different people.

Holiday Pressure

The Turkey Drop may also extend beyond the college years: people unhappy in their relationships might be motivated to end their relationships before the hoopla of the holiday begins. This would avoid holiday gift giving pressure, mandatory New Year's eve plans, and Valentine's Day expectations that might come with a continued relationship.

Noteworthy too is the spike in engagements that occur around the holiday season. According to Statista, nearly 20% of proposals occur in December. If a relationship isn't headed towards marriage, perhaps mid-fall is a reasonable time to end a relationship and avoid the potential pressure of engagement season.

Divorces Aren't Tied to the Turkey Drop

If you're married, your relationship is probably safe from the dreaded Turkey Drop. Despite the seasonal spike in break-ups right around Thanksgiving among couples, the story looks different for married couples. Researchers out of the University of Washington analyzed divorce filings over a fifteen year period, and discovered that a spike in filings tends to occur during March and August.

Why might divorces peak during March and August? Rather than succumbing to the Turkey Drop, the researchers speculated that couples who are already in a committed partnership may view the holidays with hope. Married couples might imagine the possibility of a return to happier times, a stitching back together existing open wounds, or the opportunity for gestures that will change the current direction of a struggling relationship. Come March, after the winter and holidays fail to meet expectations, couples may be in a position to take the final step.

The same story applies to August, but this time the focus is on family vacations. The researchers hypothesize that couples in struggling marriages might put their hope in a wonderful family summer vacation, and when it does not meet their expectations, they may make the decision to formally end their marriages.

1. The other break-up season? Late February/early March: a spring-cleaning of sorts that appears to occur right before most colleges have their spring breaks.

====== 105 ========

IS #THANKSGAYVING IN YOUR NEWS FEED?

Did you notice any posts on your newsfeed this week about ‘Gaysgiving’ ‘Friendsgiving’ or 'ThanksGAYving'? Holidays of any kind are a time when families get together, share food, fight, makeup, and generally just do what families do. For many in the LGBTQ community, however, holidays can be a difficult time of the year.

Source: Pexels.

Often they may not be welcome at their family gatherings, or, if they are, they may only be welcome so long as they don’t bring their partner, or don’t do anything to ‘out’ themselves. This puts many people in a difficult position. How do you choose between the of your family traditions and the desire to include your partner in new traditions? Luckily, queers are nothing if not and this resiliency shows up every year during the holidays when groups of queer get together to re-invent family holiday gatherings and to make sure that the magic of the holidays isn’t lost, even if a connection to one's family of origin has been. While today we may see photos of these friendly gatherings with catchy hashtags like #GaysGiving #ThanksGAYving or #FriendsGiving, the tradition extends back beyond the birth of the hashtag and is commonly referred to as having a Chosen Family.

The term is a bit of a euphemism. It shouldn’t be interpreted as meaning that a young LGBTQ person goes out and finds themselves a new mom and dad and some queer siblings. It just means that the friends they do make within the LGBTQ community often play a more important role in their lives than an average friend might for a non-LGBTQ person. When something bad happens, these would be the people you turn to first and the people who will come to your aide when needed. Chosen Families are borne out of necessity, not a choice. Most individuals would choose to have their own family fill these important roles rather than having to turn to others. However, when they do turn to others, it is a sign of the resiliency that exists among LGBTQ individuals that they are able to build such lasting and supportive bonds without the underpinnings of a biological connection.

One needs to look no further than the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic to see the role that chosen families played in the lives (and deaths) of LGBTQ individuals, particularly women and gay and bisexual men. Biological family members abandoned their sons when they found out they were HIV positive (which was often the same time that they found out that their sons were gay). Friends, lovers, ex-lovers, and even strangers from within the LGBTQ community stepped up to fill the roles that are traditionally filled by family members. They managed each other’s medical appointments, ensured that those in the hospital or hospice had visitors, that they had help getting their affairs in order, and ultimately, it was these chosen family members who planned and attended the funerals. Those who survived came out the other side of the epidemic having lost countless numbers of their ‘chosen family’ but also with an intense of the necessity of chosen family. Thus, today, we still see many groups of LGBTQ friends spending the holidays together. Even as families have become more accepting of their LGBTQ members, chosen families continue to hold a special place in the hearts of LGBTQ folk, and thus the #GaysGiving dinners continue.

One of the reasons that researchers have theorized that chosen families are so important for LGBTQ folk is because they provide a shared level of experience that often cannot be found in an LGBTQ individual’s family of origin. Unless you grew up with LGBTQ or other close family members, no matter how accepting your family is, they are still unlikely to truly be able to empathize and understand your experiences as an LGBTQ person in a world that remains heterosexist, and sometimes outright homophobic. This means that LGBTQ youth often lack a family member who can tell them what it is like to come out, or what it will be like to be bullied and harassed based on their sexual or . Thus, there’s a greater drive to fill that role and to find other LGBTQ companions who can serve as mentors or provide advice or comfort in the face of daily challenges.

Source: pexels.

Ironically, one of the barriers to cultivating a chosen family today is the growing acceptance of LGBTQ people in society. Friends and family are far less likely to outright reject LGBTQ people, making that overwhelming necessity of finding a chosen family much less salient. As a result, many may just go about their lives without developing close bonds with other LGBTQ individuals, at least not to the extent that has been seen in past generations. At the same time, many still see the benefits of a closely-knit group of LGBTQ-identified friends, so only time will tell whether #GaysGiving will remain a tradition in the LGBTQ community or whether it will fade into something the elder-queers remember fondly, but with that kind of nostalgia that appreciates the past while simultaneously celebrating the social advances that may one day render LGBTQ chosen families unnecessary.

====== 106 ========

TECHNOLOGICAL “ADVANCES” AND THE EROSION OF SOCIETY

Source: FunkyFocus / Pixabay

We tend to see novel technologies as true “advances.” This makes sense, as that’s sort of a defining feature of technology. The wheel allowed our ancestors to move large items across great distances. Controlled fire allowed our ancestors to prepare food that could be digested relatively quickly. And rocket technologies ultimately allowed us to put a man on the moon. Sure, in many ways, technology goes hand-in-hand with progress.

The evolutionary perspective on the human condition provides important perspective on the of technology. In short, the evolutionary perspective (see my brief textbook, Evolutionary Psychology 101) suggests that when thinking about any human problem, it’s useful to consider the fact that the human mind evolved not under modern conditions, but, rather, under ancestral conditions that characterized the lion’s share of human evolution.

An important facet of this thinking pertains to the fact that agriculture and “civilization” are relatively recent, having only been developed in the past 10,000 years. Prior to this point, all human beings lived in small nomadic bands. They only ate natural foods. They necessarily exercised a lot. And their lives were, of course, without iPhones and the internet. Our evolved psychology was shaped to match those pre-agrarian conditions.

As is true with any organism, when humans experience dramatic cases of “evolutionary mismatch” (see Giphart & Van Vugt, 2018), we often run into problems. For the same reason that a palm tree will not do well in my front yard in upstate New York, humans often don’t do well in modern conditions─the conditions don’t match the conditions that the organism evolved to experience. Palm trees evolved adaptations to match relatively warm climates. Humans evolved adaptations to match small-scale societies where nature, natural foods, and exercise were abundant parts of the day-to-day experience.

From the evolutionary perspective, then, any new technology should be considered in terms of this bigger-picture evolutionary context. It is highly plausible that some technology may only provide short-term benefits to individuals (because is makes us feel good) while, inadvertently, having long-term adverse consequences (such as leading to long-term social or physical problems). We need to be wary of this kind of situation, as businesses are in it for profit, and that goes along with creating products that have short-term gain.

Modern Technologies as Supernormal Stimuli

From an evolutionary perspective, a “supernormal stimulus” is an exaggerated version of some stimulus that an organism evolved to respond to because such a response had adaptive value during the evolutionary history of that organism. A famous example comes from renowned behavioral scientist, Niko Tinbergen (1953) who studied the tendency for male stickleback fish to show an aggressive response to the red coloration of other male stickleback fishes. Tinbergen created supernormal versions of the red stimulus, simply creating fake fish that had larger and more saturated red sections on their exterior. Tinbergen found essentially that the fish showed a “the more red the more behavior” effect. That is, the supernormal stimuli with the higher proportion of red led to more consistent and stronger aggressive responses.

The lesson is this: Evolved behavioral responses can be hijacked by technology. If the fish evolved to attack “red,” then anyone can make a “super-red” stimulus that leads to an even strong behavioral response.

It turns out that humans are, actually, very similar to male stickleback fish in this broader regard. Technologies that hijack our evolved tendencies are all around you right now. The food industry has figured out the flavors that our ancestors evolved to like and has exaggerated them in tasty treats. The computer gaming industry has figured out what kinds of experiences activate our ’s pleasure centers and has provided supernormal stimuli that represent extreme versions of these stimuli. These things feel good in the moment because that’s exactly how these technologies work: They exploit our evolved psychology─not for our own long-term benefit, but, rather, for corporate profit. McDonald’s really doesn’t care if their milkshakes are contributing significantly to the modern crisis in the United States. They care about their bottom line.

Below are five examples of modern technologies that might be thought of from this evolutionary perspective. Several of these technologies hijack our evolved psychology, for the benefit of corporate profit. Often to the detriment of our own long-term health.

Five Technological “Advances” that May Be Driving Us Down a Bad Path

1. Processed food

Recent research on the proportion of processed foods eaten by Americans has led to outrageous conclusions (see Guitar, 2017). More than 60% of the food that we eat is processed. This statistic is hugely out of whack with the fact that before the advent of agriculture, during the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, all food that was eaten was natural by definition. Under ancestral conditions in the African savanna, where we can all trace our ancestors, drought and famine were common. Under such conditions, preferences for foods that are high in fat and sugar were adaptive, so that ancestral humans could get some fat on their bones to try to survive through the next famine. Today, those same food preferences, which have not had time to evolve out of us, often prove fatal, leading to such adverse health outcomes as Type-II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

2.

As is true with any sexually reproducing species, humans evolved a variety of mating-relevant adaptations including various preferences in mates (see Geher & Kaufman, 2013). Pornography provides a clear example of supernormal stimuli. Men evolved to be attracted to certain qualities in the female body because such led to increases in sexual that ultimately facilitated reproductive success. The porn industry takes these stimuli and ramps them up a notch. Or 100.

While the topic of whether pornography is truly harmful for people or for society is in the midst of hot academic debate, several published studies have found that is a real in terms of our brain’s physiology (see Banca et al., 2016). Further, pornography use seems to be associated with adverse relationship outcomes such as (with those showing higher porn use being more likely to have relationships that end in divorce; Perry & Davis, 2017). From a supernormal stimulus perspective, these outcomes are not surprising.

3. Video Games

Video games represent supernormal stimuli sine qua non. Everything about them takes some facet of our evolved psychology and gives us an overdose of it. We evolved to be task-oriented, because people who were task-oriented got stuff done and were relatively likely to survive and ultimately reproduce as a result. If you were around in the 1980s like I was, you know that Pac Man and Asteroids were all about completing the task. One more game! One more level! I know I can get to the next level, I just know it!

Modern video games such as Fortnite, are, of course, amped up compared to old Pac Man. They often include a social component. They include high risk. They include human coalitions. They sometimes have sexy characters. They have elements that focus on social status. And so forth. Why are our kids so darned addicted to these stupid video games? Because these videogames are hijacking their evolved psychological adaptations.

4. iPhones

Consider yourself lucky if you are truly not addicted to your smartphone. In a recent CNN poll of teens in the US, more than 50% admitted to being addicted to their phones. And we all well know that the other 50% were ! I have to say that I am checking my phone way more than I wish I were these days. These things are so addictive! And tells us why.

As is the case with video games, smartphones have so many things that we evolved to focus on right at our fingertips. 24/7. ? Relationships? Your social status? Your family? Things that make you happy? Things that make you excited? Things that make you surprised? Risky behaviors? We have special evolved psychology regarding all these things. And with smartphones, exaggerated information on all of these is now more accessible than.

5. Your couch

How many hours a week do you think an average American spends sitting on the couch? Many of us have more than one couch in the house. Hey, we try to make our houses comfortable. The word “home,” in fact, is all about the comfort that we experience in our houses. I love my house, so I’m not one to judge. But, under ancestral conditions, before the advent of agriculture and “civilization,” people were not sitting around on their couches. Not by any means!

For the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, exercise was not a choice. Sitting around on the couch all day watching an Impractical Jokers marathon, drinking Pepsie and Sam Adams, and eating chips was not a possibility. Estimates of ancestral exercise patterns, in fact, suggest that traveling more than 20 miles in a day was a regular occurrence (see Platek et al., 2011). Further, as is true with all animals, we evolved to take advantage of opportunities to not expend energy. Under ancestral conditions, chilling out whenever possible and saving up energy for future physical activity was a good idea. In today’s world, where we can easily go a full day that includes walking less than two miles and sitting on comfortable chairs and couches for 10 or so hours, this tendency to rest up whenever the opportunity presents itself is incredibly unhealthy. We’ve made our environments too comfortable! And all the technologies that we have to increase our comfort, including electronic garage doors so that we don’t have to get of our cars, dog doors so that we don’t have to get up to walk the dog, reclining chairs, Netflix, couches that cost thousands of dollars, etc., work against that fact that our bodies evolved to move a lot every single day.

Bottom Line

Beware of technology. Technological “advances” often present some short-term benefit with an unspecified (and often invisible) long-term cost. Companies that make technology are motivated to get people to buy their stuff. They are not too motivated to worry much about potential long-term adverse consequences associated with their products.

The evolutionary framework changes the playing field when it comes to thinking about technology. We need to think about the long-term human consequences of technology. And we also need to ask the question of what evolved psychological adaptation the technology is tapping into. Further, we need to ask whether the technology is somehow exploiting our evolved psychology for corporate gain. There’s something to think about when you go out holiday shopping.

====== 107 ========

FORGET CO-PARENTING WITH A NARCISSIST, ROUND 3

Source: Caroline Hernandez/unsplash

As the writer of Forget Co-Parenting With a Narcissist: Do This Instead, and its Round 2 counterpart, I spend a good amount of time helping weary co-parents navigate high-conflict and contentious plans. As awful as it is to deal with the toxic atmosphere of family court, it is possible to implement emotionally stable habits so you can distance yourself from the drama.

Here are 10 ways to do just that.

1. Emotionally stable co-parents accept that their ex is not going to change and they stop wishing that this person one day wakes up and sees the impact of their frivolous, mean-spirited and sociopathic behaviors. Instead, emotionally stable co-parents recognize they chose a partner who may fit the diagnostic criteria for , borderline disorder or . They educate themselves on these mental conditions to better understand the characterological manifestations.

2. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t complain about their ex. This is not to say they don’t have reason to feel outrage or experience random thoughts of skipping town with the kids, but they accept the game for what it is. They recognize that as adults, we are willing participants in . When we complain, other people may be wondering, ‘Hmmm…didn’t you see the signs when you where ?’ As a psychotherapist, I assure you, there are always signs. I can also confirm, no kid on the couch ever says, “Thank goodness for all the badmouthing my parents did in front of me—that really helped me move forward and learn the basics of healthy relationships.”

3. Emotionally stable co-parents use wisely. They recognize they need to heal first in order to help their kids recover. They grow in their ability to guide their children once they’ve processed why they chose their co-parent in the first place. As my clinical supervisor used to say, “All issues with children are issues in the parent. The connection is not always linear.”

4. Emotionally stable co-parents do not waste time on co-parenting forums because most are not helpful, and more often, used as a platform for emotional vomiting and out-catastrophizing other people’s experiences. Rather, they spend their time and energy on hiring professionals. Emotionally stable co-parents do not write dramatic, autobiographical email or post like-minded commentary, nor do they leave lengthy phone messages expecting free advice. They respect the ethical and legal restrictions of mental health and legal professionals for responding to non-clients.

5. Emotionally stable co-parents recognize that the job of a single parent is a lot easier when kids are held accountable for their behaviors. All children need discipline and guidance. Some may argue that children of divorce need more stability, consistency and accountability due to the erratic and conflicting practices from the other side.

6. Emotionally stable co-parents speak to their kids about divorce in an honest and age-appropriate manner. They recognize that while they may not have the answer to “Why does daddy’s new friend over his house?,” they refrain from angry knee-jerk reactions. When stumped, they reach for books such as Growing Up With Divorce by Neil Kalter, or Divorce Poison by Richard Warshak.

7. Emotionally stable parents accept the tall order known as “bad parenting.” This may look like feeding him donuts and chocolate milk for breakfast, to off all her hair one weekend just because, or criticizing you for grounding him when he told the football coach to "Go to hell." Because what’s the alternative? Spend $300 in attorney fees to hear that your issue isn’t ‘bad enough’ to file a motion in court?

8. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t blame judges, attorneys, mediators, and therapists for their situation. This is not to say the family court system isn’t largely broken, and in need of reform. But it is what it is, and none of its players are directly at fault when your ex doesn’t comply with the court order. Mentally stable co-parents view court as a place to be avoided for all non-emergency matters.

9. Emotionally stable co-parents teach their kids to be independent thinkers by inspiring them to question events that don’t make sense and to listen to their gut. If their co-parent tells them not to trust someone, they are encouraged to look for an alternative explanation.

10. Emotionally stable co-parents rise above the chaos and focus on nurturing their child’s mental and emotional well-being. They go to therapy, work their calm plan, relaxation routine and mindfulness practices daily so they can parent with love, warmth, safety and presence.

Even when the other parent does the opposite.

To learn more about co-parenting strategies, click here for information about my online course, Co-Parenting Without Chaos.

Copyright 2018 Linda Esposito, LCSW. All Rights Reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the author.

====== 108 ========

IT'S HOW YOU DO IT THAT MATTERS FOR RELATIONAL SATISFACTION

Nearly everyone understands the importance of being grateful. And during this time of year there tends to be a marked emphasis on the positive impact that has on our lives. This focus is especially powerful since being grateful for our blessings – like our , family, and significant other or spouse – is associated with greater individual well-being.

And gratitude may be one of the most important positive emotions to cultivate for thriving as well, according to research.

However, feeling grateful alone is not enough for relational satisfaction. It’s acting upon these feelings that matter. We need to express our gratitude to our partner. After all, our partner is not a mind reader. We need to tell them how we feel about them.

Sadly, many people do not feel that their partners appreciate them. Many relationships fall apart not due to one big problem but rather a lot of little things that add up over time. Perhaps repeatedly feeling overlooked, unacknowledged, or taken advantage of, for example.

We need to make it a habit to express our appreciation to our partner.

In our book, Happy Together: Using the Science of to Build Love That Lasts, we recount the story of “Tonya”and “Marco,” whose collapsed after twenty-plus years of marriage. As we mentioned in a previous post, Tonya did not feel appreciated by Marco. She could only recall two times in their entire marriage where Marco expressed his appreciation for her. She said he rarely expressed his gratitude to her which caused her to wither over the years. Eventually, she left, to the utter surprise of Marco who didn’t understand what he did. It’s actually what he didn’t do that she felt caused their relationship to unravel.

We can’t overemphasize the importance of expressing gratitude to our loved ones for relational satisfaction and longevity. In fact, expressing gratitude has been found to be important for both partners, the giver and the receiver. In one study, couples who expressed gratitude well to one another were as half as likely to break up six months later. Gratitude was found to serve as an emotional glue in that it makes a partner feel “cared for, understood, and validated.”

Source: Pexels

However, for optimal relationship satisfaction, it’s not just if you do it, but how you do it that matters, according to research.

Gratitude can serve as a relational booster shot if the gratitude is expressed well, in that it is “other” focused, rather than “self” focused. In other words, focusing on praising your partner and his or her qualities and actions rather than the benefit to yourself.

For example, if your partner has been especially helpful around the house lately or roasted and carved the holiday turkey, you might automatically react by saying, “Thank you. You really helped me out.” Or “Yummy! You know how much I love turkey.”

While these remarks aren’t bad, of course – after all, you are acknowledging your partner and could be worse off by not saying anything at all – you could do much better by shifting the focus from yourself to your partner. Instead, try responding with something like:

"Thank you. I really appreciate your thoughtfulness in tidying up our home. It’s this thoughtfulness that I see in you time and time again that makes you such a special person.”

“I really appreciate your to detail and the care you took in making the turkey. Your patience is remarkable! Whether working with your students or interacting with our son, these qualities are such a beautiful part of who you are.”

So think of a recent time you thanked a loved one. Reflect for a moment on your expression of gratitude. Next, ask yourself these two questions:

Did you focus on the other person, or the self?

If you focused on the self, how could you reframe that?

Giving good gratitude is a skill that can be learned. Expressing it well and practicing it regularly will help boost your individual and relational .

====== 109 ========

SUZIE PILEGGI PAWELSKI, MAPP AND JAMES PAWELSKI, PH.D.

Suzann (“Suzie”) Pileggi Pawelski, MAPP, is a freelance writer and well-being consultant specializing in the science of happiness and its effects on relationships and health. Her 2010 Scientific American Mind cover story, “The Happy Couple” was the catalyst for the book Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love that Lasts that she co-wrote with her husband, James. Together, they give Romance and Research (TM) workshops around the world. She is a contributing editor for Live Happy and writes the “Science of Well-being” column for the national magazine. As a columnist for the Newsletter of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), she profiled many of the field’s leading scientists and featured their groundbreaking research in the publication. Previously, she directed award-winning media relations campaigns in New York City for Fortune 500 clients. Earlier in her career, she worked in publicity at Radio City Music Hall and as an associate producer for The Joan Rivers Show, where she featured leading health and medical authors on the Emmy Award-winning program. She has a Master of Applied Positive Psychology degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

James Pawelski, Ph.D., is the Director of Education and a Senior Scholar in the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, where he co-founded the Master of Applied Positive Psychology Program with Martin Seligman. He is a recipient of Penn’s Liberal and Professional Studies Award for Distinguished Teaching in Professional Graduate Programs. The Founding Executive Director of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), and a member of the Advisory Board of the International Positive Education Network (IPEN), he is currently leading a three-year, multi-million-dollar grant investigating connections between the science of well-being and the arts and humanities. Having earned a Ph.D. in philosophy, he is the author of The Dynamic Individualism of William James, and co-editor of The Eudaimonic Turn: Well-Being in Literary Studies and On Human Flourishing: A Poetry Anthology. An international keynote speaker, he has presented in more than 20 countries on six continents, including Romance and Research (TM) workshops with his wife, Suzie. He is a recipient of the Practice Excellence Award from the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the Humanitarian Innovation Award for the Humanities, Arts, and Culture from the Humanities Innovation Forum at the United Nations. He is frequently featured in the media, including the New York Times, U.S. News and World Report, Philadelphia Inquirer, and The Today Show.

====== 110 ========

HOW MUCH SLEEP DO SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN NEED?

Source: Pixabay Free Images

The question of how much children need is one that is not easy to answer. Professional organizations have recommended guidelines which include ranges for different age groups. For example, the National Sleep Foundation suggests that school-age children 6-to-13 years old should get 9-to-11 hours of sleep each night. But the basis for establishing those guidelines is unclear. It is a more difficult question to answer than one might expect, and it is similar to asking how much exercise children need or what nutritional needs they have. Complicating the question is that individual differences exist for children at any one age.

Children of all ages, but especially adolescents, seem to be getting less sleep than they need. The movement to have middle and high school start times later is based on the assumption that doing so will afford adolescents the opportunity to get more morning sleep, and also that they will actually get more sleep by not staying up even later at night.

Most school districts where later start times for teens have been considered or implemented, have set earlier start times for elementary school children, with the assumption that their sleep needs will not be compromised. With only a few exceptions, that assumption has received very little study.

One method for estimating how much sleep a child needs is to observe how much they sleep when there are no or few constraints on when they go to bed and wake up. Since the school week schedule dictates that wake times are around the same time each day, are responsible for making sure their children go to bed early enough to get sufficient sleep. But during school breaks, especially during summer months when most schools are not in session, bedtimes and wake times can be more flexible. These breaks create opportunities to determine how much sleep children might need.

A paper just published in the journal Sleep by a of researchers at the University of South Carolina reports a study that includes measurements of sleep during two school breaks – one of a week duration, and one of three weeks duration which were then compared to how much they slept when school was in session. Children (N=154) were between 5 and 9 years old (mean = 7). Sleep was measured objectively using Fitbits.

For both the one- and three-week breaks, children showed increased sleep time and later wake times. On a one-week break they slept 38 minutes more and woke up 35 minutes later than when school was in session. During the three-week break they slept 25 minutes more and woke up 46 minutes later. When school was in session, their sleep far less than even the lower end of the recommended range (7 hours, 18 minutes vs. 9 hours). They were getting more sleep during the one week break (8 hours, 12 minutes) and the three week break (7 hours, 48 minutes), but those durations were still short of 9 hours. Longer sleep times during breaks is a good estimate of how much sleep children of this age need. "Natural" wake times of 35-46 minutes later than when school is in session suggests that starting school an hour later — no earlier than 8:30 as is being recommended by professional organizations — is probably a good idea for all children, not just adolescents.

====== 111 ========

TWO LEADER BEHAVIORS THAT REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE

One of the most consistent research findings of the past century suggests that there are two types of leader behaviors that are associated with effective : Task-focused and relationship-focused behaviors.

Just after World War II leadership researchers from Ohio State University and the University of Michigan discovered two types of leader behaviors that were consistently related to effective leadership.

The first were task-focused behaviors. These are behaviors that put structure into the work setting – creating operating procedures, focusing on measuring outcomes, making important decisions, and the like.

The second category of effective leader behaviors focuses on the followers and the relationship between leaders and followers. These include showing concern for followers’ feelings and needs, showing appreciation, giving them a voice in , and bolstering their .

Research over the next 70 years has consistently shown that these two broad categories of leader behaviors are important. So, what is the implication for leaders and their effectiveness?

Leaders should do a self-assessment and note how often their behaviors focus primarily on the task and the incidence of their relationship-oriented behaviors. Research by Fred Fiedler and others suggests that leaders may prefer one over the other – becoming almost preoccupied with getting the task done, or alternatively, with building the leader-follower relationship. For example, if a leader’s self-assessment suggests that he or she is over-emphasizing task-oriented behaviors, then balance may be needed by making sure to also focus on the with members. Over-focusing on relationships can lead to a lack of structure with can reduce the team’s efficiency and output.

Sometimes, simple research results (and those that seem to be almost common-sense) are important because they give us insight into our patterns of behavior in the . The best leaders realize that they can always improve. They reflect on what they are doing well, and on their shortcomings and they strive to constantly get better.

Follow me at twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 112 ========

SEX HELPS INITIATE RELATIONSHIPS WITH POTENTIAL PARTNERS

Sexual desire evolved to serve as a powerful motivational force that brings potential romantic partners together initially and thereby helps to facilitate sexual intercourse and . As such, sexual acts may be devoid of affectional bonding, as in the case of one-night stands. And yet, sexual desire may play a major role not only in attracting potential partners to each other but also in encouraging the formation of an between them.

Nevertheless, thus far it has been unclear whether desire motivates merely reproductive acts, with attachment between partners developing independently, or whether desire directly contributes to the building of an emotional bond between newly acquainted partners. Indeed, although sexual urges and emotional attachments are not necessarily connected with each other, evolutionary and social processes may have rendered humans particularly likely to become romantically attached to partners to whom they are sexually attracted1.

Source: Hugh Douglas Hamilton/Wikimedia Commons

Research published recently in the Journal of Social and Personal 2 has provided support for the latter option. In four studies, my colleagues and I demonstrate that sexual desire elicits behaviors that can facilitate emotional bonding during face-to-face encounters with a new opposite- acquaintance.

In Study 1, we examined whether desire for a new acquaintance would be associated with enactment of non-verbal immediacy behaviors that indicate contact readiness (e.g., synchronization, close physical proximity, frequent eye contact). To do so, participants took part in a lip-sync performance in which they and an attractive opposite-sex confederate mimed together to pre-recorded music (without actually singing) while being videotaped. Participants then rated their desire for the confederate. Judges rated the extent to which participants enacted immediacy behaviors toward the confederates and were behaviorally synchronized with them. We found that participant's desire for the confederate was associated with coded immediacy behaviors toward the confederate as well as with synchronization as perceived by participants, confederates, and raters.

In Study 2, we sought to replicate the findings of Study 1 with a different methodology that requires more intimate coordination (slow-dance rather than lip-sync performance) and is thus more relevant to romantic contexts. We also wished to extend Study 1 by adding a measure of interest in future interactions with potential partners. For this purpose, participants slow-danced with an opposite-sex confederate and then rated their sexual desire for the confederate, the extent to which they were synchronized with each other, and their interest in seeing the confederate again. The results showed that participant's desire for the confederates was associated with being synchronized with them, which in turn, predicted greater interest in them.

Studies 3 and 4 were designed to establish a causal connection between activation of the sexual system and non-sexual behaviors (provision of responsiveness and help, respectively) that are not only strategically employed to initiate relationships with potential partners but also play a key role in supporting long-term bonding3.

In Study 3, participants were subliminally exposed to sexual stimuli (versus neutral stimuli). Specifically, participants were asked to indicate their food, clothing, and location preferences for a date by choosing one of two options from each of seven categories (e.g., color of clothes: black or blue; location: bar or restaurant). Before each pair of options, participants were exposed to either a sexual (an attractive naked, reclining man shown from the groin up for female participants; an attractive, naked, kneeling woman photographed from behind for male participants) or a neutral prime, which was presented subliminally.

Then, participants discussed several interpersonal dilemmas (e.g., “Are you for or against playing ‘hard to get’ at the start of a relationship?”) with an opposite-sex participant whom they did not know while being videotaped. Judges rated the extent to which participants engaged in behaviors that conveyed responsiveness and caring to the confederate during the interactions. The findings revealed that participants were more responsive to the other participant in the sexual condition than in the control condition.

In Study 4, we sought to activate the sexual system in a more ecologically valid manner, investigating how sexual stimuli in real-life settings (watching videos) affect engagement in other approach behavior (i.e., helping behaviors) that may facilitate relationship initiation more actively than the provision of responsiveness. In particular, participants watched either an erotic (but not pornographic) video or a neutral video. After watching the video, participants were led to believe that in the next 5 minutes they and another participant would complete a questionnaire assessing their verbal reasoning. The experimenter then introduced an attractive opposite-sex confederate to the participants, seated them next to each other, told both that they were allowed to speak with each other while completing the questionnaire, and left the room.

When the confederate ostensibly got to the third question, he or she turned to the participants and asked their help in solving that question, uttering, "I'm stuck with this question. Could you please help me in solving it?" Participants' helping behaviors toward the confederate were recorded, using the following measures: (a) the time elapsed until participants started providing help to the confederate; (b) the actual time spent helping to solve the needed question; both were measured using a stopwatch hidden in the confederates' pocket; and (c) the quality of the given help, as assessed by the confederate following this session. The findings indicated that participants were quicker to help as well as invested more time and effort in providing help to the confederate in the sexual priming condition than in the control condition.

Overall, our research demonstrates that even a nonconscious sexual stimulus can elicit verbal and non-verbal behaviors that not only convey contact readiness but also express caring about a partner's well-being. By doing so, our research suggests that when two strangers meet, sexual desire experienced by one or both of them may initiate a cascade of behaviors that signal their interest in further interaction as well as their willingness to invest in a potential relationship. Such behaviors help set the stage for deepening the emotional connection between them. To be sure, whereas intense desire may attract new partners to each other, the behaviors it engenders are those that support long-term bonding.

This post also appeared here.

====== 113 ========

SCHIZOPHRENIA AND HALLUCINATIONS

Source: Pixabay

I was sitting on a park bench on my former university campus on January 28, 2006 when my hallucinations began. I began to hear a chorus of children’s voices very far away. They told me I was a “homeless hoodlum” a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times, again and again in my mind. It was like a painful stimulus.

Then the voices changed, and complimented me on achieving a perfect score on my SAT college entrance exam. It is true that during high school I had scored high marks, but in reality, I had fallen short of perfect. They told me that I was fluent in Chinese, but in reality, I had only an elementary proficiency.

Then the voices began to confirm my delusions. They spoke about my future husband who they said was handsome, wealthy, powerful, and eagerly waiting to meet me. They said I would meet him after my required period of homelessness had miraculously ended, which they affirmed it would.

I expected that one night an airplane might land near the churchyard where I was every night, pick me up, and take me to another city or perhaps another country. I would begin a new life as the next Mother Teresa, and the wife of the man of my .

In my mind, the voices of a little boy and a little girl who were part of the choir I was hearing became more distinct. Months later, I would begin to hear the voice of my future husband, assuring me that he was coming soon.

In late January 2006 after the voices initially began I was taking a shower at a friend’s house. Suddenly I heard three men making rude and insulting comments. I knew they could see me because of their specific remarks. I stepped out of the shower to see the three men through the bathroom window and realized there was no window. I looked for a sunroof, but there was none. After a few minutes I realized no one could see me and there were no men.

I lived in a world of delusions and hallucinations which became more severe in the following weeks and months. One day, I saw the name of the college library where I spent much of my time had been changed by one letter. Weeks later, I looked into a mirror and saw an alarming version of my face morphed together with the cartoon character Lisa Simpson.

When I tried to read books, I noticed that words were underlined once, twice or three times. I found this incredibly distracting. I remember picking up other books only to find the same bizarre and unpredictable patterns of underlining. In about two months’ time I no longer knew what day it was. I could no longer check the date on a newspaper without hallucinating.

On a Wednesday night in 2006 I believed it was one week before Thanksgiving. However, during a conversation I discovered that the holiday would be the next day. I had become disoriented and detached from reality.

Through all of this, I strongly resolved to never mention the voices and the imaginary images I saw with any other person. I told myself that everyone else refrained from speaking about the things they saw and heard so I would too. I convinced myself that hallucinations were normal and common.

Eventually I was picked up by police for screaming back at the voices and transported to a ward, but I firmly believed I was not mentally ill. My strong resolve to keep my experiences a secret remained unchanged. Even though I clung to my belief that I was not hearing voices, I was diagnosed as totally and permanently disabled due to schizophrenia. That was it. It seemed my life was done.

Fortunately, today, there is even hope for people with the most severe and treatment resistant forms of schizophrenia. Initially, during my recovery experience, I endured twelve months of uncomfortable side effects trying many medications which offered me little relief from my symptoms. It can be challenging to find just the right to effectively address the specific needs of each individual, but it is crucial to not give up trying.

After twelve months, my new doctor prescribed an underutilized medication. Over time, my hallucinations disappeared, and I regained a quiet mind. As my recovery progressed I was able to return to college. Two years later I earned my degree in molecular biology and graduated with honors.

I would encourage my readers to never give up on any person, even if they have an experience like mine, resulting from a severe form of mental illness. Today, there is more hope than ever before thanks to newer treatments and medications.

In 2018, I am celebrating ten years in full recovery from severe schizophrenia.

====== 114 ========

WILDFIRES, HURRICANES, FLOODS, MUDSLIDES... TESTS OF FAITH?

“When you are dealing with questions too large for you [and] which, nevertheless, will not leave you alone, you are obliged to house them somewhere – and an old wall helps.”

-- from Archibald MacLeish, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, in the Foreword to the published version of his verse play J.B.

To grapple with those large questions that would not leave him alone, that haunted him, MacLeish chose an “ancient structure” – the Book of Job.

The story of Job can be found memorialized in an ancient fable (folk tale), ancient verse, and, of course, in the Hebrew Bible and in Scripture. It was reimagined, reconstructed, in MacLeish’s J.B., which is a play within a play, framed by a duel of egos; and inhabited by two sufferers and three comforters.

Given all the devastation experienced by thousands as a result of natural (and, perhaps, unnatural?) disasters, in 2018 alone, and given all the losses of life and property that have had to be absorbed, a sufferer might wonder, “Why me and mine?” Those spared might thankfully wonder, “Why not me and mine?”

Why does extreme loss and suffering come to some, and not others?

How much could we endure, how might we be? How much faith in the “rightness” of the world might we hold on to?

The playwright explained his play

MacLeish’s Foreword helped me grasp the dueling personalities that confounded my initial reading of his play, and my second reading. The Foreword (written as “a Trespass on a Monument”) explains that J.B. is “put in motion by two broken-down actors” who believe that they are to enact the Book of Job.

From a variety of reviews and commentaries, I finally surmised that, presumably to make a living, the broken-down actors have taken jobs with a traveling circus. One, a balloon-hawker imagines that he is to play the role of God, and assumes that role by putting on a God-mask. The other, a popcorn-vendor, reluctantly agrees to play the role of the devil, and does so whenever he puts on the leering red mask of Satan. When masked, these two actors challenge each other in a battle of egos, for the purpose of challenging Job’s steadfastness – his faith that God rewards good and only punishes when there is wrongdoing.

MacLeish provided this guidance: “Job’s search, like ours, was for the meaning of his afflictions – the loss of his children, the loss of everything he possessed, the loss of his wife’s kindness, who turned upon him in his agony with those ineradicable words, surely the most dreadful ever spoken by wife to husband: ‘Curse God and die!….'

“Job was, by witness of God himself, and twice repeated, ‘a perfect and upright man’ [who feared God and eschewed evil] and his destruction was, by the same unquestionable authority, ‘without cause….'

“My hero, called J.B. after the current fashion in business address, bears little relation to that ancient owner of camels, oxen, and sheep. He is not a particularly devout man. But he is, at the beginning of the play, prosperous, powerful, possessed of a lovely wife, fine children – everything the heart of a man can desire.”

MacLeish tells us that J.B. is aware – “as he could hardly help being” – that God has favored him. Like Job of the Bible, J.B. is not prepared for the “sudden and inexplicable loss of everything.” He is desperate to know the reason for his losses and his wretchedness.

Giving voice to God and the devil via “a stunning device”

In his December 30, 1958 New York Herald Tribune review, Walter Kerr advised his readers that “J.B. takes place under the dark and billowing canvas of an empty circus tent, where a balloon-man and a popcorn-peddler have decided to play God and the devil, respectively, while a band of unidentified mummers re-enacts the story of Job.”

The review informed readers that the pompous brimming-with- balloon-man (played by Raymond Massey, “immensely dignified in a trim white beard”) assumed the role of God. Needing a foil, he has to coax the popcorn-peddler to take on the role of the devil.

The hawker with the tray of unsold popcorn does not relish the idea of playing the devil. But the popcorn-peddler (“performed with brilliant mockery by Christopher Plummer”) shrugs and murmurs, “Well, it’s a demanding role.” Almost immediately upon slipping on a glowing red, leering mask, which features a sneering lip, the popcorn-peddler warms to the role. The review informed readers that the moment he slips on the mask, “he discovers that the mask has its own life, that it speaks through him and for him; that, in fact, he cannot silence it.”

With that review I began to grasp the role-playing assignments of the play within a play. However, by my reading, the devil becomes increasing compassionate as the God character insists on dealing J.B. misfortune upon misfortune; tragedy upon tragedy; unbearable afflictions; ultimate suffering and utter despair.

Why is J.B. being tested so severely?

Reconstructing a “thorny” Biblical story

A few weeks following the play being announced as the year’s winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, Life magazine devoted a lengthy article to MacLeish’s “monumental achievement which parallels the Bible’s thorny story of Job.”

In that May 18, 1959 issue of Life, readers were informed that “After declaring his faith in God’s justice, J.B. is beset by senseless disasters.” As if those unwarranted tragedies aren’t sufficient, the God character feels emboldened to visit still more afflictions and torments – to further test J.B.’s willingness to accept the God character’s ways. The devil is certain that these additional torments and physical afflictions will destroy J.B.’s faith in God. The latter believes that J.B. will accept these sufferings as his fate, and affirm his faith.

According to Life, J.B. “comes to realize that his repentance is for sins he has not committed and thus he recognizes that God does not operate by the laws of human justice.”

The play’s appeal: An exegesis on “shit happens”? or, is it ordained?

The play is not set in any specific time or place on Earth, thus its performances and favorable reception around the world.

Though the play’s initial conversations are set in or around an earthbound circus tent, what transpires between the God-mask and the Satan-mask seems to be on a different plane from that of the Earth – somewhere above or below any identifiable terra firma.

The play has us consider whether virtue is indeed its own reward – the only reward that may be reasonably expected. The play has us ponder whether misfortune, calamity, and catastrophe are ordained, or whether “shit just happens” to good people regardless of their goodness.

There’s also the cause-and-effect conundrum: Did Job’s (the prosperous businessman’s) self-assured piety arise from his desire to express for all his prosperity? Was he pious out of uncertainty, or from of losing his good fortune? Or did genuine pre-prosperity piety earn him his initial prosperity?

In the play, following declarations of faith and thanks at the family's Thanksgiving dinner table, J.B. is, as the devil labels him, the perfect pigeon for what we are meant to judge as unwarranted, unjust and cruel tests of faith.

Is the devil proposing one harassment after another, as a challenge to God’s certainty, God’s faith in Job? Or, are the afflictions God’s answers to the devil’s doubts about Job’s tolerance and endurance? I am not clear as to which player instigated the power play.

What is a mere mortal’s relationship with God and what might a mere mortal reasonably expect of and from God? What are God’s commitments and obligations to mere mortals, if any?

Job (a/k/a "J.B.") and Sarah’s “let’s make a deal”

At their Thanksgiving table, Job’s wife pronounces “Grace,” which she tells her children is “for the .”

Mouth and meat by grace amazed

God upon my lips is praised….

But Sarah worries that they have too much of a good thing:

God doesn’t give all this for nothing….

If we do our part, He does His….

I get frightened, Job… we have so much.

In reply, J.B. assures her,

Not for a watch-tick have I doubted

God was on my side – was helping me….

People call it luck….

It isn’t luck when God is good to you….

With an ominous prescience, Sarah delivers this foreboding:

I know you trust it. That’s what frightens me…. God rewards and God can punish….

God and Satan’s wheel of misfortune: Sympathy from the devil

The vendor who has put down his tray of unsold popcorn dons the Satan-mask. Emboldened, he confronts the God-mask by referring to Sarah’s concern about J.B.’s certainty regarding their prosperity:

Bought and paid for like a waiter’s smirk.

Wait ’til you lift the lot, he’ll sing another canticle – to different music….

Wait ’til your pigeon pecks at the world the way the rest do.

From behind the God-mask, the balloon-hawker boasts to Satan:

Nothing this good man might suffer,

Nothing at all will make him yelp as you do.

He’ll praise God no matter.

By my reading, Satan (or the role-player) appears to be discomfited by God’s (or the role-player's) piling on of afflictions. If “suffering teaches,” surely J.B. has learned whatever lesson, passed whatever test, had been intended. So Satan asks,

Why then must he suffer?....

Why then try the trust?

I could be mistaken, but by my reading, the popcorn-vendor sheds his Satan role for a moment, out of concern for J.B.:

God won’t let it happen, not to Job, the perfect and upright man. Job deserves his luck. He’s earned it.

Not yet disaffected, J.B., sobbing, declares his acceptance of misfortune,

The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away.

God commands, Finish it, Blessed be the….

What hath God wrought? and why?

By my reading, Satan (or the actor playing Satan) feels for J.B. The actor playing God comes across as arrogant. The latter seems pleased that he has destroyed J.B. without cause.

The popcorn-vendor is taken aback by all the suffering visited upon Job, “without cause”:

It isn’t decent! It isn’t moral even. It’s disgusting! His weeping wife in her despair. And he beside her on his trembling ham bones. Taking it! Eating it! It isn’t decent!

God (the role-player?) is victorious in the fear challenge. To Satan, or to popcorn-vender playing at Satan, the balloon-hawker playing God boasts and gloats:

You don’t lose gracefully, do you?

J.B., persecuted in what could be viewed as a show-trial to test faith, cries out for an answer, an explanation. He is desperate to know why he has been so afflicted. He assures his bereft wife,

God will not punish without cause… God is just!

In response to his wife’s seemingly realistic, wholly understandable despair and , J.B., prostrate, pleads:

Show me my , o God!

Rising to his knees, arms outstretched, he repeats,

Show me my guilt, o God!

Satan (or is it the pretend Satan?) concludes that there seem to be “no reasons adequate to J.B.’s catastrophes.”

Guilt – very cold comfort

Satan seems to conclude that J.B. has been made “worthy of his wretchedness” by “the gift of guilt, that putrid poultice of the soul that sucks the poison in, not out!”

Still not disaffected, J.B. rebukes his Comforters (one presumably a psychiatrist and one a cleric). He declares,

Guilt matters. Guilt must always matter. Unless guilt matters the whole world is meaningless…. Guilt must always matter…. I’d rather suffer every unspeakable suffering God sends… knowing that I had earned the need to suffer.

A Comforter suggests that “from guilt, hope begins.” When J.B. retorts, “Show me my transgressions,” the Comforter advises, “Search your inmost heart! Question it! Guilt is a deceptive secret….”

Doubt – and hopeful hopelessness

Finally, J.B. becomes desperate to be told his fault; to learn what he did to justify him suffering so much misery. He asks, “Shall I repent of sins I have not sinned?"

The actor who plays at being God offers this perspective:

We take what God has sent – the Godsend….

A world where there can be injustice….

Finally disaffected and , J.B. declares,

I will not duck my head again to thunder.

In rebuke, the actor playing God stiffens:

We have no peace but in obedience.

Our peace is acquiescence in the Will of God.

J.B. counters with resentment and his own declaration of independence from “life as a filthy farce”:

I will not and neither will I weep among the obedient who lie down to die in meek relinquishment protesting nothing, questioning nothing, asking nothing but to rise again and bow!

In stage directions, MacLeish instructs the actor playing J.B. to move “slowly, with difficulty” to deliver, “at last,” to his wife, “the hard words” about God’s unwillingness to explain “Why”:

We can never know….

He answered me like the stillness of a star that silences us asking….

We are, and that is our answer. We are and what we are can suffer. But what suffers loves, and will live its suffering again, risk its own defeat again, endure the loss of everything again, and yet again and again, in doubt, in dread, in ignorance unanswered, over and over….

Theology in the Theatre: Is J.B. cynical and irreverent? sacrilegious? blasphemous?

In his 1960 Journal of Bible and Religion appraisal, Studies Professor Burton M. Wheeler wrote that amid the “comforting [to churchmen] sweetness and light” of some 20th century theater touching on religion, “Archibald MacLeish’s J.B. intruded on the scene with troublesome audacity.”

Professor Wheeler did acknowledge, “Whether or not the verse is thin or the vulgarity is stagey or the dramatic conditions are confused, J.B. has impact on an audience and its future for revivals seems assured.”

In his Life magazine essay, “Arid Repudiation of Religion,” the Reverend Thurston N. Davis asserted that J.B. was neither a religious drama or a play: “If J.B. means anything, it is an urbane but shallow repudiation of religious faith."

Reverend Davis was editor-in-chief of America, a weekly journal of opinion published by the Jesuits of the United States and Canada. He was a member of the Society of Jesus, a scholarly religious congregation of the Catholic Church. In his view, the play's ending tells all about playwright: “It becomes quite obvious that the God who has been ‘bullwhipping’ our contemporary Job with his thundering, amplified pronouncements suddenly becomes, in Mr. MacLeish’s hands, about as meaningless as the mask worn by the old balloon-vendor who plays the role and speaks the lines of God. If J.B. ‘means’ anything, it means that the God of the Job story – He who commands the morning… gets told off and sent ingloriously to the wings by Man.”

Rev. Davis conceded that, “On the positive side, J.B. tries hard in its closing moments to become a secular affirmation of human life and human love as the sole props and rationale of bewildered humanity.”

Nevertheless, having read the J.B. script and having seen the play itself on two occasions, Rev. Davis concluded his appraisal with questions and a somewhat damning rebuke: “Are there divine ‘reasons’ for human pain? Is there at last a Justice that will set things right? Is there a Mind and a Providence at work in human affairs? Is Man enveloped by God’s Love? If I read and hear him aright, MacLeish is saying No.”

An ancient confrontation, with modern implications

In his Life magazine essay “Modern Answers to an Enigma,” Reinhold Niebuhr, who was a professor at Union Theological Seminary, credited MacLeish with “undertaking a difficult task” – attempting to answer “searching questions about the meaningless of extreme human suffering.” The attempt, wrote Niebuhr, was done with “artistic ingenuity.”

Niebuhr explained that while MacLeish’s play emphasizes “meaningless suffering,” the play “neglects the ancient book’s even more searching question about the meaning of life.”

This, Niebuhr contended, is “an even deeper problem than that of meaningless suffering but one more poignantly relevant to an atomic age which has the greatness to discover nuclear energy but lacks the to avoid the risk of nuclear war. MacLeish neglects this vital dimension of the original.”

Theologian and ethicist Niebuhr wrote, “Though MacLeish himself evidently does not believe in a personal God,” he does have God appear to Job in “a whirlwind to confront him [J.B] with all the mysteries of creation to prove that there is a meaning to life beyond that which any mere man can provide from his own limited perspective.”

The need for answers and explanations

In his Life magazine essay “Insight into Our Deep Need,” Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, who was chancellor of New York’s Jewish Theological Seminary, opened his assessment with this: “What is most startling about MacLeish’s distinguished play is its success as a Broadway production. A moralistic fable, based on the most difficult and perplexing book in Scriptures, attracts crowds in numbers usually expected only at musical comedies. Obviously J.B. answers a deep need.”

Finkelstein, a Talmud scholar, observed, “The play conveys, of course, the unspoken agony of a generation which, having witnessed the most horrible war in history, fears even more horrible catastrophes….

“In MacLeish’s view, one of our greatest problems is our failure to find any purpose in the sufferings of our time.”

The Playwright felt the need to “confess” and contest

In an article for The Christian Century, Archibald MacLeish confirmed that J.B. is intended to posit that while “God is, man may know Him only through love.”

MacLeish continued, “The justification of the universe is not our blind acceptance of God’s inexplicable will, nor our trust in God’s love, his dark and incomprehensible love, for us, but our human love, notwithstanding anything, for him… love is the only possible answer to our ancient cry against injustice.”

Luck, hard-luck, and harsh judgments

The New Yorker magazine’s theater critic, Kenneth Tynan, found the 1958 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, presentation “flawless,” but wrote, “The same, unfortunately, cannot be said of the thing presented.

Tynan credited MacLeish with going at “the task of justifying the ways of God to man” by employing the Book of Job, “that greatest of hard-luck stories,” which the playwright “retold in the form of a morality play.” While the playwright clearly wanted to raise “whirlwinds,” the critic bristled at the play’s “devotion to an antique and extravagant concept of the Deity.”

In that critic’s view, God and Man were pugilists in a metaphorical boxing match under a circus tent: “After each new body blow, God’s chosen sparring partner staggers back off the ropes for more, to the delight of God and the chagrin of Satan,” who, seemed (to me) to have moved into J.B.’s corner in the hope that the pummeled and bloodied mortal would throw in his pious towel, to “renounce and curse his Creator.”

Like a number of critics, Tynan was quite displeased with the play’s resolution – finding it to be a betrayal of all that had preceded: “To say that the ending cheats is to put it mildly. The play rests on the assumption, everywhere endorsed by the text, that we are judged by God. It then poses the question: Why are we judged so harshly?”

Tynan skewered, “Long before the final curtain, I was bored to exasperation by the lack of any recognizable human response to calamity.”

Tynan asserted that “justice, which distributes punishments and rewards, is a human invention.” He declared, to be wronged by misfortune or injustice is “not an evidence of sin.”

A contrasting concept was presented in “J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man,” by Mary Frances Thelen, a Professor of Religion. Thelen observed that many reviewers “speak of the confusion in which the audience finds itself at the end as to what is the real outcome of the play, what the author has finally concluded concerning the problem of the suffering of the innocent.”

Yet, Professor Thelen would go on to assert that J.B. must surely have had “tangible sins and sinfulness of which to repent, even if he has done nothing so dreadful as to merit the crushing disasters which overtake him”

Divine doings, wrath? or Mankind’s interventions, exuberance and inattentions?

In the ultimate show of incontestable prowess, MacLeish has God come to J.B. in a whirlwind, highlighting all that is in His power and domain.

Can we reasonably extrapolate from that demonstration of might that God is to blame for hurricane-force winds, tornadoes, and the wildfires fanned and spread by wind? Are the torrential rains that bring devastating floods, rockslides, and mudslides punishments demanding a modern-day Noah?

Or, has been so impacted by Man, the steward and groundskeeper of Earth, as to despoil what was entrusted to Man by the Creator?

Are we to expect God’s intervention to halt and restore what came about as a result of Man’s inattention? over-extension?

Has Mankind’s unkindness to the planet rewritten the God-mortal pact to read, “The Lord giveth, and Man taketh away?”

All this is beyond me. I report, you decide.

But like J.B.’s wife, I do wonder how it is that I have been so very fortunate (so damn lucky), while others have not. “Why me?”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments:

J. B. – the Samuel French, Inc. acting edition

“Theater: MacLeish Drama Based on the Story of Job” New York Herald Tribune, December 30, 1958

“The Ageless Story of Job’s Ordeals in the Year’s Prize Play” Life magazine, May 18, 1959

“Job’s Ordeal in Great Play” Life magazine, December 22, 1958

“Theology and the Theatre” by Professor Burton M. Wheeler, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1960

The New Yorker magazine, Kenneth Tynan review, December 20, 1958

“J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man” by Mary Frances Thelen, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1959

“The Book of Job” by Archibald MacLeish, published in The Christian Century, April 8, 1959

The Book of Job: When Bad Things Happened to a Good Person (Nextbook Press) by Rabbi Harold Kushner, excerpted and adapted for Tablet magazine as “Bad Things, Good Person: Is Misfortune God’s Doing?” 3 October 2012

Special thanks to Janet Valeski of Quinnipiac University’s Bernhard Library, Christina DeLucia of Quinnipiac University’s School of Law Library, and Amy Bush of the University of California Davis Shields Library.

====== 115 ========

WHY ARE PATIENTS RELUCTANT TO TAKE MEDICATION?

I’ve been through this before, the emotional fragility and unwarranted tears. Depre—No. No. I couldn't bear the thought of returning to that black bottomless pit. I can't even bring myself to use the word.

I search my . Why now? Has something triggered it? A fleeting thought: Is it related to yesterday's bout of sensory overload?

I have cavernous angiomas, clusters of thin-walled blood vessels in my . Two of them had bled, turning my life upside-down. To prevent future bleeds, I underwent three brain surgeries to remove the culprits. The ordeal left me with a number of neurological challenges.

Source: Deb Brandon

Among the various meds I take to manage these issues is the anti-seizure , Lamictal, which was prescribed by my neurologist several months before my surgeries. The 300 milligram daily dose was effective, but I looked forward to my post-surgery days. I was sure the surgeries would eliminate many of my symptoms, especially the seizures. I believed that eventually, I’d be able to wean myself off the Lamictal.

I was wrong—the seizures made a comeback, and my daily dose was increased to 400 milligrams.

It did not occur to me that the dose would go any higher. I certainly didn’t think that Lamictal would target another aftereffect of the surgeries— . In fact, the thought that I was suffering from biological depression didn’t enter my mind until I tumbled into the maw of suicide ideation.

During the first four months after the surgeries, I attributed my frequent tears to situational depression: I'd been through a lot; depression was to be expected. But after I became , of returning to that state of mind chased away denial, and I admitted my thoughts of suicide to my therapist, who pointed out that brain injury itself can cause depression. Since Lamictal is also a mood stabilizer, my psychiatrist increased my dose to 600 milligrams, which successfully controlled both depression and seizures.

Prior to the brain bleeds, I’d always kept my use of any type of medication to a minimum: painkillers for headaches and antibiotics for bacterial infections, nothing else. Now here I was, popping pills daily—6 pills to manage seizures and depression; two pills for blood pressure, to prevent additional bleeds; two pills for a folic-acid deficiency often associated with depression. In addition, I took a variety of pain-killers for crippling headaches. I felt like I was poisoning myself with all these meds, and the Lamictal was the worst of the lot, especially now that I was on a higher dose.

But I was that my depression was temporary. I was convinced that it was caused by the surgeries and that as I healed, my depression would subside. In time, I would be able to eliminate the Lamictal from my daily regimen of medication altogether.

Five years after the surgeries, my seizures and depression seemed to be things of the past, and, with my neurologist's and psychiatrist's blessings, I started decreasing the Lamictal dose. After several trial runs with lowered dosages, I was down to 500 milligrams per day.

Unfortunately, a couple of years later, the meds lost effectiveness—once again depression shadowed my every step. My psychiatrist, instead of increasing the dose of Lamictal, augmented it with another anti-depressant, Celexa. Not only did my depression abate, but so did my spells of sensory overload.

Sensory overload: During my first few years of recovery, I had enormous difficulties processing incoming sensory data. When the circuits in my brain overloaded, they jammed up, causing confusion and panic, which usually brought on spectacular meltdowns followed by emotional fragility that sometimes lasted for days.

According to my psychiatrist, the Celexa, in addition to addressing depression, also reduced , which had been feeding into sensory overloads, making them worse.

But now, years post-surgery, sensory overload was a rare occurrence; at its worst, I merely teared up, and then only briefly.

But over the last few weeks, I'd occasionally become weepy for no apparent reason. At first, I assumed that theses episodes were related to sensory overload. But given their increasing frequency, I started to wonder.

Then this morning, more than a decade since the surgeries, with no warning, I found myself sobbing, tears streaming down my cheeks.

What was going on? I recalled that yesterday, after attending a crowded event at work, I suffered an extreme case of sensory overload, such as I hadn’t experienced in years. I hadn’t had a meltdown since…since when? Two, three years ago? Probably more. Was today’s crying jag just an aftereffect of yesterday’s overload?

I shied away from the thought that this morning’s tears were due to depression once again descending. But I couldn’t repress my whispering about the possibility. I can't afford to stick my head in the sand. I cannot risk spiraling into the abyss like I did so long ago.

I probably should make an appointment with my psychiatrist as soon as possible—but she might increase the dosage of Lamictal or Celexa, and I feel the old resistance to "more meds" rise up. Will it do any harm to wait a bit longer? Maybe this is just be a blip that will pass.

I’m calmer now, no longer crying. Yes, I decide, I can afford to wait and see. I’ll hold off, for now. Until tomorrow, if I find myself weeping uncontrollably again, for absolutely no reason.

====== 116 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

Source: Photo by B. Luceigh

I feel driven to offer reflections on beautiful connections between humans. Perhaps my need arises to counterbalance sad prompted by the upcoming holidays, the weariness of ongoing divisive news, or the horrors of recent fires and floods. In the midst of many shadows, I am especially sensitive to the universal presence of what I experience as the Light of .

When I have a brief, sincere, face-to-face interaction with a stranger, I often sense delicate wavelets of Beauty passing through me. These encounters occur in safe public settings. The interactions are as simple as thanking someone for holding a door open for me, initiating a chat while waiting in line, or just smiling at someone as we pass on the sidewalk. I have become more observant of others doing likewise. In such situations, I have no need to know the stranger’s history, values, or views. I have no motive other than to connect beautifully. I best do so when I am fully present in the simple moments of the exchange. They are moments of connection, human with human, through mutual acknowledgement of each other’s existence.

I am likely to quickly forget any single connection amidst whatever I was otherwise doing at the time. Each event is like a punctuation mark within the paragraphs of my life. Each indicates when to pause, be alert, be curious, or stop as my personal story unfolds. What is most meaningful to me is the collection of not only mine but all such interactions with strangers. That collection serves to remind me again and again that there are other humans across our planet also interweaving beautiful connections among our species. I am reminded I am not alone at the deepest level of our shared humanity even though we each differ in our outward expressions of it. I am always a participant in life, but I better experience its Wholeness when I share the awareness of it by simple moments of connection. It is a practice that opens my heart and broadens my mind to our common inheritance as children of Earth.

Other connections that have been ongoing for longer periods of time become . More time allows for varieties of shared experience, exploration of values and preferences, and formation of memories. Over time, caring relationships may become deeper, stronger, and more loving ones as Beauty expresses herself within their connections.

When I consider my loving relationships in the context of the whole of existence, I see each as a form arising from universal Beauty—like a rosebud rising from an amorphous cloud. A deeply loving relationship provides evolving connections to nurture each other’s continuous developmental transformation into a more beautiful human flower. To “grow up” psychologically and “wake up” spiritually, whether as individuals or as a relationship, are exquisite expressions of Beauty’s limitless connections into forms.

When I have a brief, sincere connection to a stranger, I wonder if a micro-version of a loving relationship momentarily comes into being. Perhaps it’s like the brief fragrance of a rose emanating from inside a flower shop as one passes—noticed for only a moment before being lost by the next breath. I wonder if some small influence to connect can be recorded in the heart-mind of a stranger I speak to or smile at. I like to believe the voice or smile leaves a delicate memory that joins and enhances related memories within that person—like multiple times smelling a rose from outside a flower shop strengthens a single conscious recollection.

Might beautiful experiences join together to work their way from the unconscious to the conscious heart-mind within a human? Might the recipient of beautiful encounters with multiple strangers motivate one to transform into a more beautiful human? Might multiple times smelling roses entice one to take the first step into the flower shop? When I am sincerely present for another human, stranger or not, am I serving in that moment as Beauty’s fragrance drawing forth the soft edge of the rosebud of his/her potential as a human?

My belief in Beauty prompts me to find ways to embody her as I connect to others. My belief in Beauty reminds me that Good and True connections to others will help heal dark moments in our lives. Over time, I believe brief, sincere connections between strangers can transform into deeply caring relationships among humanity.

As you hold open the shop door for me,

may my as I pass

hold open your heart for you.

====== 117 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUSTRALIA

Source: Photo: Jessica Teich, used with permission

On a hot, still Sunday morning, I got an email from a dear friend’s ex-husband and son. It had a deceptively simple subject heading: “Sad News.”

It is with deep sorrow that we inform you that Judy passed away earlier today at her Santa Monica home. She was surrounded by her loved ones after a long struggle with her illness, which she kept very private.

“Very private” was an understatement: She hadn’t told anyone she was dying. No one even knew she was sick. Yet Judy wasn’t afraid even of the most difficult subjects, including her from the man who came back to care for her when she was ailing, or the terrible death of her own mother, whose giant necklace she wore like a talisman.

Judy and I first met more than twenty years ago, sitting on the floor of one of those progressive preschools where all the other moms were wearing yoga pants. When she said her name was Judy Blume— a name she shared with the beloved children’s author— I grinned and said I still had some questions about menstruation. (Remember Are You There God? It’s Me,Margaret?)She laughed, obligingly, I’m sure, and launched into one of the searching conversations that were her signature.

That’s the kind of conversation I want to have with her now. About her.

Judy was a literary person, a theatre person, and she particularly loved Stephen Sondheim. In fact, “Sondheim Fan” was her “handle,” before we even knew what handles were. She once sat in my living room and sang “No One is Alone” with my five-year-old daughter.

Sometimes people leave you

Halfway through the wood.

For a long time, she secretly rehearsed a cabaret act of her favorite songs. To console myself, I imagine her as one of T.S. Eliot’s mermaids, “singing, each to each.” Then I remember: I will never hear her voice again, just as Eliot never hears his mermaids:

I do not think that they will sing to me.

No one is alone, according to her beloved Sondheim, but Judy was, or nearly. When I began contacting our mutual , they were as surprised and devastated as I. I had sensed something was off and kept reaching out to her, mostly by text— the staccato informality seemingly a substitute for :

Where are you?

Are you okay?

Then one day I ventured, how are you feeling?

“Null,” she shot back.

The daughter with whom she’d sung Sondheim and I laughed, thinking Judy meant “well,” but had been autocorrected.

Now I wonder if “null” meant “ill,” and I just didn’t know it.

Why didn’t she want anyone to know?

Maybe it was pride, because she didn’t like to be fawned over. Or a healthy : She wanted to be remembered as she was. Vivid black hair, and that low, liquid voice, and the way she gave the word “theatre” three syllables. Bold enough in late middle age to wear a bathing suit to a pool party, plunging into the velvety water on a cold summer day. Judy worked out on the Santa Monica stairs for years, long after it was healthy for her hip. When she fell silent, I wondered if that hip was bothering her again. Maybe she needed a replacement? Were we really that old?

We met, sitting on pillows at a preschool.

Now our toddlers were turning 21.

Judy worked for years as a film editor, but left the profession when the hours proved too hard for a mostly single mother. She later became a therapist, graduating from a program many Hollywood people turn to in . I wouldn’t have thought her filmmaking skills would translate to : Therapists don’t edit things; they let the material emerge and take its own shape. But Judy had the most essential quality: she listened deeply. Very few people do. And I would have heard her, if she’d said, “I’m really ill” or “I’m dying.” I would have listened if she’d wanted to say good-bye.

“It’s me,” Judy Blume said whenever she called. She never said her name, that fabled name. If we were close enough that she needn’t have identified herself on the phone, wasn’t I close enough to know she was dying? I could have been there, to bring soup, to fluff pillows, to sing Sondheim; to help with the meds or the bills or the household chores. I could have been there, to recall the preschool playdates, the middle school struggles, the moment we began to let go of our kids in high school, because we had to.

We let go because we had no other choice.

One last , of bumping into her in an art museum in Los Angeles. She and her German beau (now her ex) were going to the desert to get married. Their son was three years old, and it seemed like the right time. I marveled at her cool, back in a day when people—at least nice Jewish girls from Philadelphia suburbs— got married before having a baby. She was impressively free. An iconoclast.

So, of course, she would choose to die in a way unlike anyone else. And I must let her go, not as I would wish to, but as she insisted I do.

Still, I haven’t been able to delete her final text message with the word “null.” I try not to dwell on the terrible void it describes. Sometimes I want to shout into the abyss, as if confronting the Judy Blume who wrote provocative children’s books: I’ve got questions! About life! About the end of things! About the pain you must have suffered, and the .

And the question, also without an answer, that tugs at me with an almost tidal pressure: How can I accept that I will never see you again?

Judy was a film editor, but she edited out all the interstitial tissue that binds our ideas about death; the long, labored days that allow loved ones to grieve. She left behind so many questions, not just about her only child but about her house and her dogs, Siberian huskies with piercing Arctic eyes. “They’re escape artists,” she once said of the two goliaths, forever finding their way out of her yard.

Judy was an escape artist, too.

It’s left to us to remember her, sleek as an otter in the water. Or singing.

It’s left to us to love her and let go.

====== 118 ========

THE HIPPOCAMPUS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND PHYSICAL HEALTH

is nothing more than good and a bad memory. —Albert Schweitzer

The hippocampus is a key area of the brain involved with basic function, part of the temporal lobe and intimately related with the amygdala. The hippocampus is involved with memory storage and retrieval, while the amygdala is best known for its role in and alarm in the face of potential threats. When functioning properly, the hippocampus is thought to create an appropriate context for , helping to support a coherent narrative of what is and is not really dangerous, keeping the amygdala regulated so that it is active only when appropriate...and buffering against excess , both from the and internally-generated.

Posttraumatic and stress-related effects

In conditions where fear-based responses have become poorly regulated, such as , the hippocampus has been found to be smaller in size and less effective at grounding the alarm signaling of the amygdala. It isn’t clear whether having a smaller hippocampus is the result of , a factor which predisposes to developing PTSD, or both. While there are many studies showing an association between PTSD and other conditions, and smaller hippocampi, there are only small twin studies comparing traumatized with non-traumatized suggesting that smaller hippocampi may be a risk factor for subsequent PTSD. On the other hand, animal studies have shown that chronic stress directly reduces the size of the hippocampus, and effective treatment can increase the size of the hippocampus and other brain regions. Most likely, there are complex two-way among hippocampus size, environmental factors, and risk for positive and negative impacts on well-being.

Such persistent activation of threat-response systems when no threat is present is associated with negative health effects due to connections between the hippocampus and other parts of the brain, including the HPA-axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) which regulates stress such as cortisol and adrenaline in the brain and body. In fact, the hippocampus has been found to play a role in well-being beyond its role in PTSD.

Self-esteem, health and the hippocampus

In recent research (Lu, Li, Wang, Song and Liu, 2018), study authors highlight the role of the hippocampus for both self-esteem and physical health, seeking to understand if the hippocampus is part of the brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and greater physical health. In reviewing the prior literature, researchers offer key observations. First, higher self-esteem is associated with better health outcomes and longevity, likely via higher reported levels of positive states including , relaxation, and joy. Lower self-esteem, in contrast, is associated with negative health outcomes, with increased risks for and , and use, and increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases.

Second, the the hippocampus is closely involved with self-esteem. This makes sense given that the hippocampus is involved with autobiographical memory, a key part of our sense of self and , how we feel about ourselves and the stories we tell ourselves and others about who we are. Neuroimaging research has shown that the hippocampus is larger and more active in people with greater self-esteem. Finally, the hippocampus is connected not just with psychiatric problems, but also plays a role in physical health. Research has shown, for example, that the hippocampus is smaller in size in Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, chronic and inflammation. The hippocampus is larger, on the other hand, in people with greater aerobic fitness, suggesting it may play a role in overall health.

Does the hippocampus connect self-esteem with physical health?

Given these observations, Lu and colleagues hypothesized that the hippocampus might be part of the underlying brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and physical health. In order to answer this question, they recruited 239 college students for a neuroimaging research study looking at the following factors: self-esteem, via the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES); physical health, via the Chinese Constitute Questionnaire (CCQ), a standard, validated measurement tool of general physical health; and structural MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), to look at the size of the hippocampus in study participants. Researchers then analyzed the data and performed a “mediation analysis” to determine what, if any, role hippocampal volume had in mediating the relationship between self-esteem and physical health.

First, they found that self-esteem and physical health were significantly correlated with one another in their study, confirming the results of prior research. They also showed that in this group of participants self-esteem and hippocampal volume were positively correlated for both left and right sides of the brain. The larger the hippocampi, the greater the reported self-esteem. Furthermore, they also found a positive correlation with hippocampus size and physical health, again for both left and right sides. Replicating the findings of previous research, they reported three key relationships: 1) self-esteem and physical health; 2) larger hippocampus and self-esteem; 3) larger hippocampus and physical health.

Source: Lu et al., 2018

However, while suggestive, these findings alone don’t provide evidence that the hippocampus is a primary player in determining how higher self-esteem leads to better physical health. In order to see whether the hippocampus is part of the pathway connecting self-esteem and physical health, researchers analyzed the data to see whether the connection between self-esteem and physical health remained as robust after factoring out the role of the hippocampus. In other, words, we can see how much the hippocampus mediates between self-esteem and physical health by seeing what happens when we subtract the contribution of the hippocampus, and see what is left over. When study authors performed this mediation analysis, they found that (illustration) there was a statistically significant decrease in the correlation between self-esteem and physical health, showing that hippocampal size is a key factor connecting the two. However, self-esteem and physical health were still related, independent of the hippocampus, showing that it is not the only factor connecting the two.

What can we do to enjoy greater self-esteem and physical well-being?

This is an early yet intriguing finding suggesting that the hippocampus has a primary, but not exclusive, role in determining how self-esteem leads to better physical health. It is tempting to speculate about the role of the hippocampus in identity and sense of self as an overarching influence in providing good sense of self, secure and healthy relationships with others, and as a result better self-care, especially given how trauma can interfere with physical and emotional health, and impair self-care.

On a basic level, however, the hippocampus is involved with regulating key physiological factors, balancing stress and relaxation responses depending on the context, under the influence of “top-down” factors from higher brain centers involved with executive function and conscious control of behavior. Future research can look in more detail at other brain networks involved in hippocampal control, in order to find ways to optimize physical health as mediated by self-esteem, to understand what specific behaviors may influence hippocampal function to foster greater health and whether existing and new treatments can target key brain regions to be more effective.

Does increasing self-esteem increase the size and function of the hippocampus? If so, what are the specific mechanisms? How does aerobic exercise increase hippocampus size, and how much of the health benefits are the result of altered hippocampal function? What tools can we develop to leverage the role of the hippocampus on health? Is the hippocampus involved in the positive effects of gratitude, , and happiness on well-being, shifting the stories we tell ourselves about who we are in literally healthier ways?

How much of a role does the hippocampus play in ensuring we can have healthy relationships with others, a factor which is also associated with better physical health? It makes sense to keep doing things we know help us feel better about ourselves, enjoy greater self-esteem and self-efficacy, and do more of what makes us feel better and be healthier, while looking forward to understanding how best to use emerging brain science to provide additional tools for improving health and quality of life.

====== 119 ========

HAVE WE UNDERESTIMATED THE HARM CAUSED BY LOW SELF-ESTEEM?

Until now, there’s been surprisingly little research on the prime driving factors of self-harm among LGBTQ students who are statistically at a much higher risk of suicide and non- (NSSI) than their heterosexual counterparts. For the first time, a new study, “Psychological Correlates of Self-Harm within Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual UK University Students,” reports that low may have a bigger influence on self-injury behaviors than or .

Source: Sharon McCutcheon/Pexels

Based on the cohort used for this study, almost two-thirds (65%) of students in their early 20s who self-identify as Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual (LGB) had carried out non-suicidal self-harm over their lifetime. Tragically, 35 percent of LGB students in this survey reported an attempted suicide in their lifetime compared to 14 percent of non-LGB students.

Other types of NSSI self-harm are behaviors such as , binge drinking, non-lethal overdoses, cutting, burning, scratching, and trichotillomania.

The authors explain the layout of their latest research on self-harm: "This study explores the association between lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) status and self-harm in UK students. There is currently limited data on this association, and the role psychological variables have in potentially explaining this link, in UK students. We examine whether LGB status is associated with self-harm (both non-suicidal self-injury [NSSI] and suicide attempts [SA]), and whether 4 psychological variables (depression, anxiety, belongingness, self-esteem) mediate this association.”

This study was a collaborative effort by researchers from the University of Manchester, Leeds Beckett University, Lancaster University, and Edith Cowan University in Australia.

"Surprisingly, there is little data on the psychological mechanisms that might explain the association between being lesbian, gay or bisexual, and self-harm in UK students. This data highlights how low self-esteem may leave some LGB students more at risk. Interestingly, anxiety and depressive symptoms did not appear to be important once self-esteem was taken into account,” first author Peter Taylor said in a statement.

Senior author Elizabeth McDermott of Lancaster University added: "Young people's mental is a national concern and this study confirms that lesbian, gay or bisexual young people have elevated rates of suicidality and self-harm compared with heterosexual youth. We know much less about how LGB young people seek help for their mental health problems, or what type of support would be effective."

Anecdotally, I corroborate the conclusion by Peter Taylor et al. that low-self esteem puts lesbian, gay, and bisexual students at higher risk of self-harm. Based on my first-person experience as a gay student in the 1980s who suffered from a triple whammy of (1) clinical depression, (2) crippling anxiety, and (3) low self-esteem—I realized in adulthood that it was primarily my feelings of worthlessness and low-self esteem (more than depression or anxiety) that pushed me to the brink of taking my own life.

Can Physical Activity, Mental Toughness, and Sub-Clinical Narcissism Facilitate a “Sunny” Triad that Combats Low-Esteem?

For the second part of this blog post, I’m going to shift gears and present some prescriptive advice I’ve cobbled together based on a blend of the latest empirical evidence and personal life experience.

Because there’s such a dearth of evidence-based research on the link between low self-esteem and self-harm amongst members of the LGBTQ community, I’ve made myself a human guinea pig and deconstructed specific factors that helped me boost my self-esteem as a gay teen through the lens of the latest research on subclinical narcissism (SN) and the so-called “Dark Triad” (DT) of narcissism, , and Machiavellianism.

After piecing together the latest findings on some adaptive benefits of subclinical narcissism over the past week, I’ve created a new term and coined it: “The Sunny Triad." The ST consists of physical activity (PA), mental toughness (MT), and healthy doses of subclinical narcissism (SN).

Source: diggis/Shutterstock

Last week, I wrote a Psychology Today blog post, “Don’t Believe the Hype! ‘Narcissists’ Aren’t Necessarily Evil" inspired by a study from Kostas Papageorgiou and colleagues at Queen’s University Belfast, “The Positive Effect of Narcissism on Depressive Symptoms Through Mental Toughness: Narcissism May Be a Dark Trait, but It Does Help with Seeing the World Less Grey,” published Nov. 1 in European .

In my "Don't Believe the Hype!" blog post—which tries to dissuade people from indiscriminately throwing around the derogatory label " " without acknowledging that narcissism exists on a spectrum—I share my own stories of overcoming low self-esteem and adopting a “YES! Bring it on. I got this!” mindset as a gay teen. For me, the key to overcoming my tendency to inflict self-harm involved developing some healthy narcissism and a "sense of agency" at a time when I felt my life didn't matter.

Papageorgiou posits that healthy doses of SN are correlated with increased mental toughness, more to Experience (OE) and fewer depressive symptoms (DS). I agree.

Notably, over the years, I've found that music can play a pivotal role in kick-starting an upward spiral of PA, SN, MT, and OE by creating to break a sweat doing some moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). For more, check out this "Subclinical Narcissists' Playlist" of 22 songs I curated to help generate more self-esteem and overall oomph.

As a side note: I realize that the growing list of acronyms herein is beginning to sound like alphabet soup... But each of these factors (SN, MT, OE, PA, etc.) are key elements that can be blended together into a psychosocial concoction that has the power to boost feelings of self-sufficiency, self-worth, higher self-esteem, and lower depression.

Coincidentally, after sharing my latest blog post on the possible upside of healthy doses of narcissism, Gregory Carter of York St. John University retweeted the link with a comment, “An interesting article that chimes with some of the positive outcomes (for the self) associated with aspects of sub-clinical narcissism, also reported in work by me and @DrMDDpsych and other papers with @DrRobertVaughan @YSJPsych.”

After reading Carter’s Tweet, I Googled his research and found a recent paper he’d done with Robert Vaughan, “Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger? Mental toughness, the Dark Triad, and Physical Activity,” (2018) which identified a positive relationship between mental toughness, sub-clinical narcissism, and higher levels of physical activity among elite-level athletes.

This paper by Gregory Carter and colleagues overlayed with the work of Kostas Papageorgiou et al. triggered an “Aha!” moment in my and was a catalyst for my realization that physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism may be part of a “sunny triad” that can increase self-esteem. Based on my own life experience and the empirical evidence provided by the aforementioned researchers, I suspect that combining the "sunny triad" of three acronyms (PA + MT + SN) on a regular basis in day-to-day life may be a recipe for boosting self-esteem.

Over the past few days, I’ve been corresponding with Gregory Carter for a follow-up blog post and Q&A we’re collaborating on tentatively titled: ”Physical Activity May Brighten Aspects of the Dark Triad: Can physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism create a "sunny" triad?”

====== 120 ========

MULTITASKING IN THE MIND'S EYE

Source: Pixabay / CC0 Public Domain

It’s common knowledge by now that multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to go about our daily business. Study after study has shown that when we try to perform multiple tasks at the same time, we end up doing each of them more slowly and less accurately than if we had focused on one task at a time, which is all our actually permits us to do. And while we’re not always aware of this inefficiency in our own efforts at multitasking, we notice it every day in other people. Just this morning, for instance, when I stopped by a local fast food establishment to pick up breakfast, the headset-wearing cashier who approached me at the counter simultaneously took my order while completing an order in drive-thru, and on the way to pick up my food, restocked cups, removed the hash brown basket from the fryer, and set up three cups on the automatic soda dispenser. I was not the least bit surprised, then, when I got to my car and discovered that my two ham biscuits and coffee had turned into a breakfast burrito and hot tea with a cookie on the side. Multi-tasking is, quite simply, a bad idea. Our brains are wired to focus on one task at a time, and to try to do more than that is to fight against our own , neurally speaking.

And yet, fight we do. Flying in the face of the prevailing about the fundamental inefficiency of multitasking, most of us spend our days performing multiple tasks at once because it simply makes us feel like we are getting more work done in a shorter span of time—it gives us the illusion of efficiency. Given our insistence on multitasking, in spite of what the scientific evidence might say, it is comforting to learn that this illusion of efficiency might not be purely illusory after all. New research from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan suggests that, while trying to perform many tasks at once is less efficient than taking them on one at a time, the perception that we are multitasking can, under certain circumstances, actually improve our performance. Srna et al. presented people with a variety of activities that could be viewed as either single tasks or collections of multiple tasks, and compared their performance on the tasks on the basis of which way they perceived them.

In one study, 162 participants were divided into two groups and asked to watch and transcribe an educational video. One group was told they would be completing two tasks simultaneously—a learning task and a transcribing test--while the other was told they would be working on a single learning task meant to test their learning and writing abilities. In other words, while both groups were performing exactly the same activity, one group viewed their effort as multitasking, while the other considered themselves to be performing a single task. When the results of the two groups’ note-taking sessions were compared, the people who perceived the work as multitasking outperformed the group that viewed it as a single task, transcribing more words, showing greater accuracy in their transcriptions, and scoring higher on an unannounced quiz at the end of the study. The perception that they were multitasking significantly improved the first group’s efficiency, as compared to the second, single task group.

In another study, 237 participants were divided into two groups and asked to work on two puzzles—a 15 x 15 matrix of letters from in which they searched for words in a horizontal, vertical, and diagonal pattern, and an anagram task in which they constructed as many words as possible from a string of ten letters. The “multitasking” group was told that the puzzles related to two different studies (perceptual and identification), while the “single-tasking” group was told that the two puzzles were both part of a single “perceptual-identification” study. As with the video transcription study, the group that believed they were performing two tasks at once outperformed the group that believed they were performing a single task, coming up with more words in the time allotted. Once again, the illusion of multitasking appeared to increase efficiency.

The researchers conjecture that the boost in efficiency they observed in the participants who perceived themselves as multi-tasking has to do with their relative engagement in the tasks with which they were presented. Previous studies have demonstrated that people’s for investing effort and attention increases with the difficulty of a given task. The participants’ perception that they were multitasking may have increased their engagement with the tasks because they considered performing multiple tasks at once more challenging than performing one task at a time. This conjecture was supported by physiological measures, in that the multitasking group exhibited greater pupil dilation during their work than did the single-tasking group, and pupil dilation has been shown to be associated with people’s “attentional and mental effort, processing load, and arousal.” The perception that we are multitasking may increase our engagement with a task simply because we view it as a challenge.

Another possible reason for increased engagement in perceived multitasking is the cultural perception that multitasking is a desirable . We may focus more attention on multitasking than on performing one task at a time simply because we wish to be perceived as good multitaskers. Whatever the precise source for this increased engagement may be, the study suggests that we focus more attention on an activity when we perceive it to involve multitasking, as compared to the same activity when we perceive it as involving only a single task, and that this increase in focus makes us work more efficiently.

Srna et al. are quick to clarify that their study in no way contradicts the voluminous evidence that trying to perform several tasks simultaneously is far less efficient than performing one task at a time. Multitasking, in the way most of us go about it, is still a bad idea. When faced with an activity that can be broken down into component parts, however—balancing our checking account, for example, or creating a budget report at work—approaching it as a collection of tasks instead of as a single tedious job can sharpen our focus and give us an edge in the way we execute it. While the reality of multitasking creates the false illusion of efficiency, the illusion of multitasking can make greater efficiency a reality.

====== 121 ========

THE UNEXPECTED SCIENCE OF FRESH STARTS AND FAILURES

A new study published in the journal Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes looked at the effects of “fresh starts” on performance. The fresh start effect, as it’s come to be known, is the idea that a person can disassociate their past performance outcomes from current ones. Temporal landmarks act as a kind of mental reset button to help get us back on track and get us focused on our most cherished goals.

Source: Source: Pixabay

The most common fresh start: January 1st, the start of every New Year. It’s no coincidence, for instance, that gyms see upwards of a 20% boost in memberships at this time.

The evidence has generally pointed to the benefits of fresh starts. They motivate a person to do better in achieving a goal. But now this current research tells us that they don’t always work. They can actually backfire and make us perform worse, not better. The researchers say it has to do with what comes before the performance reset.

Fresh starts are most effective, they suggest, when a person experiences failure before the restart, like how a failed plan in the month of December prompts the need for a kale-only food plan starting Jan 1. But the evidence of this paper is showing that fresh starts should be avoided if a person’s past performance was successful. If a restart is used incorrectly in such instances, it will only hinder future goal-directed behavior.

Source: source: Pixabay

The pros and cons of fresh starts: The study

There were four studies. In the first, participants took part in 10 one-minute word games where they were paid for every word they generated correctly. Halfway through, they received feedback. To manipulate the fresh start, the testing group had a reset applied with the last 5 rounds scored from zero (offering a new starting point). The control group received the same continuous scoring throughout all 10 rounds.

The second study had participants use a performance tracking app. They were asked to focus on a habit they wanted to improve and to imagine using the app to get them there. Resets were applied to all participants. But half of them assigned to a “weak performance group” were led to believe they were performing poorly, while the other half assigned to a “strong performance group” were led to believe they were performing well.

In both these first two studies, a questionnaire measured participants’ and , in addition to performance metrics. In both instances, the only people who benefited from the performance resets were the ones who had (or led to believe they had) been performing less well. And the resets actually hindered the performance of those who been doing well previously.

The third follow-up study used a similar word game. Except this time, participants were given the opportunity to complete a further round of word games that could potentially earn them extra pay. When resets were applied, the strong performers in particular were less motivated to continue on with the additional rounds.

In a final study looking at archival data, the researchers went to a high-performance domain --professional baseball. They were curious to see whether resetting a baseball player’s batting average would depend on their past performance.

Source: source: Pixabay

They could do this because in baseball, a player’s batting average gets reset to zero when they get traded (a natural fresh start). The findings showed that when players’ batting averages were lower than that of their league average (i.e. failed past performance), a trade led to a 3.8% increase in a player’s batting average. Opposite, players performing above average (i.e. successful past performance) led to a 5% decrease.

What to do about it

The takeaway: Fresh starts should be used with care. A person should be more selective in their performance resets, and recognize in themselves the difference between their good and bad past performance. If a person has been succeeding and hitting their goals, it’d be for them to avoid starting tasks on temporal landmarks.

For instance, this can be achieved by exaggerating the of a continued goal process and drawing to the previous periods’ reporting and metrics. A person who’s doing well thus far on a particular project could, let’s say, see Monday not as a new start to the week, but as a regular day that continues from the day previous. Not to condone working over-time on weekends, but it might even help to do a little bit of work on the Sunday.

And for those of us lagging behind in our personal and professional goals, no need to worry – January 1st is right around the corner.

Want to know more about goals, motivation, and peak performance? Head on over to get tactical advice and insights from the latest research.

====== 122 ========

IS SOCIAL MEDIA PDA A SIGN OF HAPPINESS OR OVERCOMPENSATION?

Source: John Jones via flickr | CC0 License

We all know those people on social who are constantly posting information about their relationship. Sometimes, we might think, "Oh, that's sweet," if we know and like the couple. Other times, we might find ourselves rolling our eyes and thinking, "Stop showing off and overcompensating." So, are these couples actually happy and our eye-rolling is the function of or disbelief? Or are they really overcompensating?

People often are suspicious of those who share a lot of relationship information on social media. Research has shown that people dislike those who post over-the-top, affectionate social media messages about their partners. Yet, the majority of research actually shows that people who have a couple profile photo, are "Facebook official," or post about their relationship tend to be more satisfied with their relationships than those who do not engage in all this showing off. People are often surprised to hear this, as it goes against their intuitions about couples who frequently post about their relationships.

However, if you step back, it makes sense that happy couples post relationship content on social media. Imagine a couple that is in a committed, happy relationship. They are more likely to have linked profiles and to be a committed couple unit that might post a couple or family photo as a profile photo. They are likely to spend a lot of time together, spend holidays together, and take vacations together. If this couple is moderately active on social media, then they will share photos of social gatherings, holidays, and vacations, which will naturally include each other. So it shouldn't be surprising at all that these kinds of social media posts are associated with higher satisfaction and commitment. In my own research, conducted with two of my former undergraduate students, Amanda Havens and Dayana Petrenko, and Michael Langlais at University of Nebraska-Kearney, we wanted to address the discrepancy between two contradictory intuitions:

The notion (backed by research) that sharing one's relationship on social media is a sign of a happy and committed relationship. The notion that sharing one's relationship on social media implies trouble and may involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship.

In two studies, recently published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, we surveyed a total of 348 adult users about how they used Facebook in their . We asked them to rate how frequently they engaged in general displays of the relationship, such as posting photos or status updates about their relationship or partner. These questions were similar to the types of behaviors assessed in previous research. We also assessed what we called "excessive relationship displays," those that went beyond the kind of relationship displays that these individuals engage in offline. Specifically, we asked how often participants posted:

Potentially embarrassing information about their partner or relationship.

Content on their partner's wall that they would be uncomfortable to say in person.

Content that showed more affection than they normally show in public.

We found that excessive displays were much less common than general relationship displays. We also found that even though they were correlated with each other, the way they related to satisfaction was quite different. As past research has found, general relationship posts were associated with greater satisfaction. So people who have a couple profile photograph and post photos and statuses about their relationships tend to be more satisfied than those who infrequently engage in those behaviors. But excessive displays were associated with less satisfaction. So people who post relationship information that they deem as potentially embarrassing or that shows more affection than they are comfortable expressing in person were actually less satisfied.

In the second study, we also asked participants to rate the extent to which they felt that Facebook had made them feel closer to and more intimate with their partners. Once again, we saw a positive effect for general relationship displays. Those who posted more relationship information on Facebook felt that Facebook helped bring them closer to their partners. Overall, excessive displays were not related to these perceptions. However, for people who were especially low in relationship satisfaction, posting excessive displays was associated with perceptions that Facebook had brought them closer. This suggests that these types of over the top displays are being used to compensate for weaker relationships. First, those who are less satisfied may post Facebook content that shows levels of affection that they aren't displaying in their actual offline relationship. These individuals then believe that engaging in these types of posts has helped their relationship. It's not clear if it actually has this helpful effect on their relationships. It is possible it has no effect or is even harmful. We would need to follow people's relationships over the long-term and to find out how their partners react to their Facebook activity in order to understand the actual consequences of these posts.

These findings demonstrate the paradoxical of social media and its relation to feelings of social connection. In a series of studies published in 2011, Kennon Sheldon and colleagues found that frequent use of Facebook was associated with both feeling connected to others and also feeling disconnected from others. Their explanation for these seemingly contradictory findings is that Facebook can make people feel more connected to others, but it is also the case that those who are feeling disconnected may turn to Facebook to seek out social connections that they are lacking. Something similar may be happening in the case of romantic relationships. People who are less satisfied with their relationships may engage in excessive displays on social media in order to bring them closer to their partners, and social media displays may also help people feel closer to their partners.

Returning to the two competing intuitions raised at the beginning of this post: 1) Relationship posts are an indication of a happy relationship, or, 2) relationship posts involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship. Our research suggests that both are true. The types of displays that simply involve sharing photos and information about one's relationship may indicate higher levels of satisfaction. However, when someone's relationship displays on Facebook reflect more affection than they show offline, it is likely that they are in a less satisfying relationship.

====== 123 ========

HOW TO DECIDE WHETHER TO MARRY

is often wonderful. Many people swear by it.

It’s also bizarre. You’re electing to commit to lifelong devotion, to feeling like wanting to accommodate another person forever no matter who they turn out to be over time.

Having children is elective too, though more like electing to enter an arranged marriage. You get the child that your arrange for you.

In marriage, you’re volunteering to throw all in with someone of your choosing, which, when you stop to think about it, is rash. If instead, you were committing to lifelong devotion to a , you’d be joining a cult.

Looks play a big part in many marriage decisions. Looks are a convincing, often life-altering optical illusion. Nothing appears more eternal than youthful hotness. Yet nothing is quite so perishable.

No wonder marriage is so heavily subsidized by and culture, our bodies insisting on it, our culture extolling it. If it weren’t, we’d never make such a radical commitment. People don’t just marry drunk in Las Vegas. Many marriages are made under the intoxicating influence of hormonal conviction and subtle, yet wall-to-wall social pressure. Still, marriage can be a wonderful thing.

in search of a lifelong partner is bound to make us ambivalent. We’re deciding to stop deciding about someone, in effect, to trust them forever. We’re pouring over details of another person to decide whether we can stop pouring over details and just love them.

Intoxicating hormones have to convince us to overlook lots because we’d otherwise be too cautious. And by now, with less social pressure to marry, our cautiousness gets expressed. We size each other up warily, more in line with what you’d expect from such a humongous decision.

So how best to decide whether to marry in times like these? Here are some tips, with some application to any big decision.

1. It’s the matrimony, stupid.

Courtship wariness can breed meta-wariness, wariness about each other’s wariness. Either of you might begin to suspect the other of “ of intimacy,” or of being ungenerous, paranoid, controlling, , needy, greedy, expecting too much, moving too quickly or moving too slowly, any of which may be true but isn’t necessarily. All of those characteristics are perfectly natural for two people doing this dance on the courtship tightrope before deciding whether to fall toward or away from each other, committing to each other for life or breaking up.



If you both enter into the courtship knowing that you’re on the tightrope, you’re less likely to take the jitters and jerks of the dance as personally, mistaking each other’s caution or zeal for a character flaw. It’s not you or your partner but the humongous commitment your considering making that’s giving you the jitters.

2. Fighting is a red flag; not fighting is even more dangerous.

Kids bicker. It drives their crazy but serves a purpose. They’re learning what works and doesn’t work in the give and take of life. Chalk it up to practice.

Courting couples have to learn how to fight too, learning how to minimize fighting in your give and take. You’re learning where to tuck in or jut out your elbows for the most efficient give and take. You’re also assessing whether you can tolerate the bickering that you probably won’t be able to eliminate. You’re -testing the relationship, which is much smarter done before than after taking your vows.

Again, if you both recognize that this is part of the courtship dance, you’re less likely to escalate into meta-fights – fights about the fact that you fight. As a result, you’re more likely to get a clear reading on what kinds of compromises you’ll have to make if you commit to marriage.

3. Throwing all in to see whether you want to throw all in.

Courtship in general, not just the bickering, is practice marriage, a tentative commitment which is a necessary but complicating oxymoron. You’re both mustering your most enthusiastic effort to determine whether you want to muster you most enthusiastic effort ‘til death do you part. You don’t want to buy marriage until you’ve tried it and you can’t try it ‘til you’ve acted as though you’ve already bought it. So you act like you’ve bought it and see how it goes. You pledge love to see whether you want to pledge love.



You have to. You’ve got to find out whether throwing all in compels your partner to reciprocate or get complacent. You give an inch hoping to discover that your partner will give an inch rather than taking a mile. If your partner takes a mile, run a mile. Get out before it’s too late. But in the testing, test earnestly. Really show up, to see whether you really want to show up forever.

4. In stress-testing the relationship, take pride in your strategic cleverness instead of taking self-protective umbrage.

Showing up is easier said than done, what with your understandable wariness about what you might be getting yourself into. It’s easy to feel compromised by partnership. Romance is the dream that you can just be yourself and loved unconditionally. Courtship starts with romance but moves on to something less dreamy, more realistic. You can’t just be yourself. You have to tuck in your elbows to make room for each other. If you pretend that courtship is like any other no-big-deal decision, you’ll feel surprised, insulted or threatened by the compromises – injured pride. That will throw off your assessment.

The alternative is to take quiet pride in your strategic cleverness. Pat yourself on the back for bending over backward for your partner. Pretty cunning. It’s you skillfully testing how your partner responds. If you decide that bending over that much is not worth it, at least you’ll have the consolation of thoroughness which you wouldn’t get if hurt pride makes you stingy.

5. Leave out of it.

Though your culture might imply that marriage is an easy, obvious, natural virtue it isn’t. These days, it’s an optional preference, a lifestyle choice, not a moral imperative. You don’t have to marry. If you choose that lifestyle you’re under moral obligations within it. But you’re not under obligation to choose the lifestyle.

You are, however, under moral obligation to decide whether you want it. These days, the residues of our culture’s marriage imperative still have people feeling obligated to marry when their hearts aren’t really into it. Don’t be like that. Know your heart as best you can. To go through the motions of wanting to marry because you’re still under the influence yesteryear’s moral mandate is like the closeted gay entering hetero . It’s unkind to the person you’re courting.



Also, in the practice bickering, moral mandates get tossed around. If you’re unwilling to do something for your partner, he or she might imply that you’re ungenerous, selfish or greedy, even narcissistic.

You might be, but courtship is a lousy test for whether you are. You’re testing your willingness to give all to someone forever. If you’re unwilling, it doesn’t prove that you’ve got some fatal character flaw. Despite what you hear from exes, not every person who pulls out of partnership is a narcissist. Deciding you don’t want to give all to someone forever might merely mean that you want to give elsewhere.

6. Rehearse a story that would rationalize each outcome.

As with any big decision, you’re going to feel a lot of tugs. “I can’t choose that. How would I ever justify that decision?” For example, “I can’t pull out of this courtship. It would prove that I’m ungenerous.” Or, “I can’t marry. How would I ever explain dropping my pledge to protect my independence?”

To neutralize those subconscious tugs, treat those questions as real, not rhetorical. For each possible choice, rehearse something you could say to justify it to you, some answer to some friend’s “what happened there?”

It doesn’t have to convince your friend who is likely to support and you whatever you decide, but something that would be convincing enough to you. Armed with an armful of self-justifications, one for each choice you might make, you can make the decision without subconscious tugs biasing your decision.

====== 124 ========

IS IT BETTER TO BE LOYAL OR HONEST IN YOUR RELATIONSHIPS?

An old friend is in town on a trip that you’ve known about for months. Back when you made a date to get together for the evening, it seemed like a great idea. You definitely want to see this person, or at least you did at the time. Now that it’s getting closer to the actual event, you’re starting to regret having made those plans. Things have gotten hectic at work, and you’d like to take the evening to sit around in your sweats and binge watch that new program which just became available for streaming. Perhaps it’s not an evening out, but a lunch date on a weekday close by to where you work. The weather forecast is predicting a messy, rainy, day and you don’t think you’ll want to venture out any more than is necessary to get from home to the office. These situations present you with a classic dilemma: Do you tell the truth to your friend but risk the relationship or preserve the relationship by making up a legitimate-sounding excuse?

Testing the values of loyalty vs. honesty in moral judgments, Cornell University’s John Angus D. Hildreth and University of California Berkeley’s Cameron Anderson (2018) asked “Does loyalty honesty?” As they note, “groups often demand loyalty, but all too often, loyalty can corrupt individuals to engage in deceit." Among the list of possible deceptions that loyalty to organizations or causes can prompt is pretending to believe in something you don’t or overlooking bad behavior by people who are a part of your group. A politician might downplay a fellow office-holder’s illicit activity or a sales manager might turn a blind eye to the shoddy products that the company is putting out on the market. You might lie to help your win in a competitive match. The deceptions involved in these instances have more serious consequences than those associated with to a friend to preserve the relationship, but the same underlying dynamic is at play in that honesty and loyalty operate at cross-purposes.

As the Cornell-Berkeley researchers go on to observe, most people view lying as unethical but may be more accepting when a lie is the result of a prosocial motive. In fact, they cite evidence that you’ll gain more trust from the people who know you if you have a reputation as a prosocial liar. A friend may overhear your saying to a mutual acquaintance that her new hairstyle looks great when, clearly, the cut and color are all wrong. Your coming out with this slight untruth shows how much you value other people’s feelings. Such lies are preferable to lies that are intended to give you an advantage over other people in order to get ahead. When you tell someone she looks nice so that you can get her to do a favor for you, this is no longer a prosocial lie because you’re doing this to increase the odds of getting something you want.

However, when a lie isn’t just prosocial but a “loyal lie,” other people are likely to view you far more negatively. A lie that is intended to protect shady operations by a group of which you are a part comes closer to a self-serving lie than one that is , even though “loyal” implies some sort of higher purpose. There is a philosophical reason for this notion as well. Philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mills regard loyalty as “immoral” due to its “inherent partiality.” Because loyal lies benefit one’s group as well as oneself over others, they should be perceived as immoral by those who observe the lie being told. The liar, by contrast, sees no such problem and, in fact, feels “a moral imperative to act in the best interests of the group.” By not lying, the individual runs the risk of “negative social judgment, ostracism and social exclusion."

Putting these ideas to the test, Hildreth and Anderson conducted a series of 4 studies involving nearly 1400 participants involving both online surveys and laboratory experiments. In the online version of the test of the study’s hypotheses (later replicated with college students), participants read scenarios varying in the behavior described by an individual who either lied or did not lie either to benefit their group in its with another group. The question was whether participants would regard deceit as unethical and immoral. In the condition involving loyalty and intergroup competition, participants perceived deceit as being relatively less unethical than in other conditions. However, participants rated loyal deceit (lying to benefit their group) as more unethical than disloyal honesty (being honest at the expense of one’s own group).

The research team placed college student participants in the experimental study similarly in conditions involving either intergroup competition or no competition. Here the question was whether or not they would lie when their loyalty was triggered. Rather than judging the and ethicality of others, then, participants judged their own behavior. As shown in prior studies, participants were more likely to lie when they thought it would help their own group. In general, they judged their own behavior as less ethical when they lied compared to when they were honest. However, there was an important exception- when they lied to benefit their group, the participants did not see any ethical problem in their own behavior. In fact, they actually saw their behavior as slightly more ethical when they lied compared to when they told the truth. As the authors concluded, “these individuals seemed to ground their self-perceptions in a morally pluralistic framework, focusing on loyalty above and beyond truthfulness as a critical moral dimension in this context” (p. 90). In other words, liars can compartmentalize enough to be able to justify their lying if it serves a purpose of protecting their group. The final study in the series randomly assigned participants in the laboratory simulation to actor or observer role. As in the prior studies, loyal lies received the harshest judgments by observers, but not by the actors themselves.

To sum up, in answer to the article’s title, loyalty really does trump honesty in the view of the person committing the lie. Loyal liars don’t just rationalize their lying after the fact; instead, they have different standards for loyal lying than they do for honesty. Returning to the quandary you find yourself in when you feel you need to lie to get out of a prior obligation, the Cornell-Berkeley study suggests that it’s all too easy to slip into a mode where you see your lying as needed to protect your relationship. This may be fine on an occasional or extreme basis, but it’s quite likely that you can easily slip down that slope into habitual lying. Rather than lie to protect your relationship, then, a dose of honesty may be needed even if it seems difficult at the time. Alternatively, perhaps you shouldn’t lie at all. If you’ve made a social commitment that now seems inconvenient, consider following through on it. You may have a much better time than you realized you would, and the loyalty you show toward those in your life might just provide the basis for more fulfilling .

====== 125 ========

HOW YOUR BRAIN CAN PREDICT THE FUTURE

Source: Wikipedia/Creative Commons

As the well-known adage states: “Timing is everything.” Watching Roger Federer serve and volley at lightning-fast speeds and consistently hit the ball in the sweet spot of his tennis racket is awe-inspiring. To spectators, it seems as if Federer has a sixth sense that makes it possible for him to prepare his hand-eye coordination in advance with the clairvoyance of a mind-reader, who can predict exactly where the ball is going to be, milliseconds before it's actually within swinging distance.

Athletes commonly refer to the importance of anticipatory timing and predicting the future trajectory of a ball or hockey puck in motion. As Wayne Gretzky famously said, "A good hockey player plays where the puck is; a great hockey player plays where the puck is going to be." Along this same line, Yogi Berra once said, “You don’t have to swing hard to hit a home run. If you got the timing, it’ll go.” Legendary Major League Baseball left-handed pitcher, Warren Spahn, echoed this sentiment when he said, “Hitting is timing. Pitching is upsetting timing.”

But how does the brain "predict the future" and anticipate the precise timing of finely-coordinated muscle movements in advance? New research from the University of California at Berkeley has identified, for the first time, that the brain uses two separate brain regions to predict the future for anticipatory movements.

More specifically, the researchers found that we use the cerebellum and the basal ganglia in concert to calculate the timing of finely-coordinated muscle movements in , music, and everyday life. "Together, these brain systems allow us to not just exist in the moment, but to also actively anticipate the future," senior author Richard Ivry, a UC Berkeley neuroscientist and director of the Cognition and Action Laboratory (CognAc), said in a statement. The Ivry lab focuses on how people from all walks of life learn new skills, select motor functions, and produce coordinated movements.

This paper, “Double Dissociation of Single-Interval and Rhythmic Temporal Prediction in Cerebellar Degeneration and Parkinson’s Disease,” by Assaf Breska and Richard B. Ivry was published online November 13 in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

As you can see by watching the video above, the ability of a player to hit a fastball in the sweet spot of a baseball bat is a mind-boggling phenomenon.

According to the latest findings on anticipatory timing by Breska and Ivry, the cerebellum and basal ganglia split their timekeeping responsibilities depending on the specific task at hand. When the calculation of exactly when to coordinate a movement relies on past experiences, the cerebellum seems to be the key player. On the flip side, when rhythm is a factor, the basal ganglia seems to take center stage.

Source: CLIPAREA l Custom media/Shutterstock

The bottom line: Rhythmic timing appears to be primarily a function of the basal ganglia and timing based on of prior experience is more cerebellum-based. Notably, in cases where someone has damage to his or her cerebellum or basal ganglia in a way that causes one of these two neural clocks to misfire, the other region seems to have the ability to pick up the slack and compensate.

"Whether it's sports, music, speech or even allocating , our study suggests that timing is not a unified process, but that there are two distinct ways in which we make temporal predictions and these depend on different parts of the brain," lead author Assaf Breska, a postdoctoral researcher in at UC Berkeley, said in a statement.

To test how the cerebellum and basal ganglia share anticipatory timing duties, Breska and Ivry compared how well Parkinson's patients with basal ganglia deficits and cerebellar degeneration patients responded to a series of “temporal” cues that were either rhythmic or represented more complex, arrhythmic patterns.

"We show that patients with cerebellar degeneration are impaired in using non-rhythmic temporal cues while patients with basal ganglia degeneration associated with Parkinson's disease are impaired in using rhythmic cues," Ivry said. These results suggest that the human brain uses two different regions and mechanisms for anticipatory timing.

According to the researchers, these new findings debunk long-held theories that a single brain system was responsible for all our timing needs in sport, music, and life.

Source: CLIPAREA l Custom media/Shutterstock

"Our results suggest at least two different ways in which the brain has evolved to anticipate the future," Breska said. "A rhythm-based system is sensitive to periodic events in the world such as is inherent in speech and music. And an interval system provides a more general anticipatory ability, sensitive to temporal regularities even in the absence of a rhythmic signal. Our study identifies not only the anticipatory contexts in which these neurological patients are impaired, but also the contexts in which they have no difficulty, suggesting we could modify their environments to make it easier for them to interact with the world in face of their symptoms.”

In the near future, the researchers are that non-pharmaceutical interventions such as smartphone apps, deep brain stimulation, and brain-training video games could be utilized to treat patients with various neurological timing deficits. This knowledge could also be implemented by coaches to help athletes perfect there anticipatory timing on the playing field or tennis court.

====== 126 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY UK

November 17 - 23

It's the start of the holiday season, instead of madly consuming, try a little quiet reading with these essays. See what the experts have to say about the mental health of college students, the usefulness of regret, whether "our" universe was made for us, and more.

====== 127 ========

THE COLLEGE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS (UPDATE)

In 2014, I wrote a series on the college student mental health crisis, what may be causing it, and what we might be able to do about it. I receive more inquiries and requests for interviews about this topic than anything else. Because I have explored this issue in more depth, I decided the time was right for an update.

What, exactly, is the “college student mental crisis?” It refers to the fact that (a) significant numbers of college students experience mental health problems (between a quarter and a third at any given time), and (b) over the past 15 to 20 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the demand for mental health services on college campuses.

To give one example of the numbers we are talking about, last month a research report came out that found rates of “past year treatment" had risen from 19% in 2007 to 34% in 2017. In addition, students with lifetime diagnoses increased from 22% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. The trend lines in these categories had been moving up steadily through the 1990s. Here, then, is the nutshell summary of the crisis:

In the 1980s, at any given point, perhaps 1 in 10 college students could be readily characterized as needing/wanting/using some form of mental health treatment. Now that number is 1 in 3, with trend lines rising.

Here is the $64,000 question about these numbers: What is really going on? Are we seeing an “epidemic” of mental illness racing through the country? Or are we seeing a shift in attitudes, definitions, and the expectation of, availability of, and willingness to seek mental health treatment? My opinion is that the primary cause is a change in attitudes and use, with an important secondary cause being an actual increase in emotional fragility and distress (and thus an increase in and depressive conditions).

The first point is certainly true. That is, there have been major changes how people think about mental health and major increases in folks’ willingness to use mental health services. This attitude change is clearly one major reason for the difference. Some scholars argue that attitude change and a willingness to seek treatment is the only reason for the shift. In this interpretation of the crisis, people were suffering with mental illness in the 1980s and '90s at similar rates as they are now, but they were much less likely to talk about their problems openly and much more reluctant to seek treatment (perhaps because of stigma) or had less knowledge or access to do so.

Fellow PT blogger Todd Kashdan, a psychologist for whom I have much respect, recently made this case. He acknowledged that students are in some ways more sensitive and prone to anxiety, but argued against an epidemic of mental illness. He offered data from three sources that suggest that mental health problems have not gotten worse. For example, a major National Co-morbidity Study found that just about 30% of people surveyed between 1990-1992 had a mental health condition and almost the exact same percentage was found in those surveyed between 2000-2002. However, despite similar base rates, the numbers of folks who sought treatment had almost doubled in the same period. Ronald Pies has made a similar argument, namely that what has changed is treatment-seeking behavior, rather than actual levels of mental illness.

Although their arguments are important, the data they report are not the only data on this topic. I see a number of indicators that things have actually gotten worse, especially when we look at this generation and data in the last decade.

Some general population level data do suggest fairly stable trend lines (such as those reports offered by Kashdan and Pies). At the same time, there are some data suggesting general levels of well-being and happiness in the country as a whole are decreasing somewhat. It is clear that we are witnessing disturbing trends in some specific populations in the U.S. For example, we have definitely seen substantial increases in rates of suicide, substance misuse, and depression in certain demographics, such as middle age, lower-class whites.

Trend lines in adolescents and young adults also show evidence of increases in psychopathology. Jean Twenge has been tracking cohort data carefully and has found significant changes in stress, depression and anxiety. The NIMH has found an increase in the frequency of Major Depressive Disorder diagnoses in adolescents. The rate was 7.9% in 2006 and jumped to 12.8% in 2016. That is almost a 50% increase, based on good diagnostic assessments (not service utilization). The suicide rate for adolescents and young adults (per 100,000 people) also has seen a jump. It was 9.9 in 2006 and 13.5 in 2016. Again, about a 50% increase in the past decade. These are substantial changes and are not self-report or treatment-use data.

A similar pattern is found if we compare college student self-report data on feeling distress. The American College Health Association puts out an annual report based on large surveys of college students. I pulled scores from 2008 and compared them to scores in 2017 on feeling overwhelming anxiety, , , and ideation, both in the past two weeks and in the past year.

Source: Gregg Henriques

Source: Gregg Henriques

As depicted in these graphics, we see a substantial increase in rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and some increase in loneliness.

In sum, there are a number of data pointing to actual increases in rates of mental illness/distress. The strongest data point to this being a generational phenomenon with increases in children, adolescents and young adults emerging since the 2000s. I should comment here that this is not something that has to do with college students per se. That is, there is not much reason to suppose that college students would be worse off in terms of mental health than those who don’t go to college.

The take-home message is this: The college student mental health crisis refers to the massive increase in treatment-seeking in college students. Whereas perhaps 10% were self-identified and seeking treatment in the 1980s, now approximately 33% are. This massive rise is likely a function of both more accepting attitudes about reporting distress and seeking and receiving treatment, and actual increases in , anxiety, and depression and other related problems.

There are no signs of this abating. Indeed, when I spoke about the trend with Dr. David Onestak, the Director of the Counseling Center at James Madison University, he made the point that we should no longer call it a "crisis" because it has been going on for more than a decade and does not appear to be slowing down. Rather, this distressing state of affairs seems to be the “new normal.”

My next post will be on why things have changed and will offer some resources for what we should be doing about it.

====== 128 ========

WHAT TO DO WITH FEELINGS OF REGRET

One of the most frequently experienced emotions is regret. Feelings of regret can stem from looking back on past behaviors and decisions and believing that a better outcome may have occurred if a different choice was made. Topics that seem to elicit the most regret are , , romance, , self, and leisure (Newall, Chipperfield, Daniels, Hladkyj, & Perry, 2009; Roese & Summerville, 2005).

When having regret, a person can experience emotional, , and neurophysiological effects. Regret is often accompanied by other negative emotions such as , disappointment, self-blame, and frustration. In addition, people frequently engage in cognitive exercises trying to understand why they made a poor decision or acted as they did, and what other choices they could have made to reap a better outcome. Moreover, regret activates certain areas of the cortex region of the (viz., lateral orbitofrontal, dorsomedial prefrontal).

Researchers differ as to what stimulates regret. Some argue that “opportunity breeds” regret—meaning that regret is strongest under conditions when a “correction” action exists (the “opportunity principle”). For example, many people experience regret over the extent of their education; yet, the opportunity to rectify this “deficit” remains open for most people. It is the availability that spurs regret.

An argument for supporting the “opportunity principle” is that there are few rationalizations that can effectively diminish the “stewing” of regret because actions that can address it are still accessible. Under this theory, feelings of regret will continue until a corrective action is taken (Roese & Summerville, 2005).

Other researchers, however, believe that feelings of regret are more likely to occur and more prominent under situations when there is no opportunity to rectify the decision or action (Beike, Markman, & Karadogan, 2009). That is, the opportunity that existed before and was not taken advantage of is now lost. It can be argued that age is a factor which can affect available opportunities. Theoretically, education can be obtained at any age; however, it is not as easy for older aged individuals. Similarly, finding romance late in life is more difficult than when one is younger, and the field is more open.

Excuses can be of little help in assuaging the pain of regret when little to no opportunity exists to correct the person’s poor decision or behavior (e.g., because of time or scarce resources). People may berate themselves for letting an opportunity pass by that cannot be obtained later.

Regret can be an aversive emotion impacting life-satisfaction. However, if regret is confronted appropriately, it can have a positive effect. Regret can lead to a retrospective analysis that may help people understand the reason why they thought or acted as they did. At that time, there may have been a specific reason. By making sense of their past thoughts or actions, individuals may:

Feel less pain, remorse, and self-condemnation.

Change their thoughts and behavior to that which will now lead to a desired outcome.

Learn from their mistakes and incorporate this into their subsequent decisions and actions.

More specifically, what can people do to accentuate the positive and reduce the negative effects of regret? Newall et al., (2009) and Bjälkebring, Västfjäll, Svenson, & Slovic (2016) offer some of the following suggestions:

Do not let feelings of regret “eat you up" Engage in and do not allow regret to become overwhelming If necessary, suppress the feelings

Do not repeat in your mind “if only” thinking Accept what happened and come to terms with it Accept that there are some instances or events that are out of your control Accept that no life can be lived without regrets

Do not exaggerate personal responsibility and harbor great self-blame

Forecast regret By preparing yourself, it may lessen the surprise and pain

Look for the benefits that derive from regret. How did it encourage you to Better understand yourself Make yourself a better person

Overcome feelings of regret by doing reparative actions Apologize to those you hurt Do not procrastinate in correcting your poor judgment or action Consider opportunities more fully and take advantage of those you might otherwise have let slip by

Instead of focusing on the negative outcomes of regret, be more mindful of how regret has stimulated Learning from experience Growth and positive changes in you



Regret is an emotional mechanism. If one ruminates on lost opportunities, then regret becomes maladaptive and can stymie growth. On the other hand, if regret reminds us that our time is short and that opportunities may be transitory, it helps us strive for a life well-lived.

====== 129 ========

A UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? STATISTICS AND THE MULTIVERSE

In parts one and two of this four-part series, I looked at the vexed question of whether the universe was somehow – and by Someone – fine-tuned for us. There may not be a genuine, no-nonsense, unequivocal answer, but there is much to be learned by merging statistics, logic, and common sense, especially when it comes to the difference between probabilities before and after an event, and much head-scratching occasioned by the multiverse hypothesis.

For example, philosopher Niall Shanks asks us to imagine shuffling a deck of cards and then dealing them out, face down. What is the likelihood that someone could predict the entire sequence, in advance, and without any hanky-panky? The chance of getting the first card correct is 1 in 52. The chance of getting the first two cards correct is 1/52 x 1/51 = 1/2652, and so on, so that the probability of guessing the entire deck in the proper order is 1/52!. (The notation "!” in mathematics is described as “factorial,” with 52! = 52 x 51 x 50 ... x 1.) This is an unimaginably small number, something like one in ten followed by 60 zeros. And yet, it is also true that the chance of the cards having been dealt in the order that actually occurred is 100 percent. They had to come out some way, and among the near-infinite number of possibilities, one in particular actually emerged. Is that astounding? Yes, if you concern yourself with the chance of that precise outcome before it happened. But no, if you look at the post-hoc outcome, knowing that it had to be one way or another.

Alternatively, consider the probabilities before versus after a simple physical event, such as the position of a golf ball before versus after a golfer hits it. It would take a near-miracle to identify, in advance, the precise eventual location of that ball. But the outcome – wherever the ball ends up – isn’t miraculous at all, nor is it evidence of divine intervention or of the golf course having been designed so as to arrange that particular eventual placement of the ball since it had to be somewhere. Even though any one specific location is extraordinarily unlikely, it is even less likely that the ball would have disappeared entirely, or had it landed atop the flat head of a hippo. For us to marvel at the fact of our existing (in a universe that permits that existence) is comparable to a golf ball being astounded at the fact that it ended up someplace.

There are many ways to interpret what might be called the unexpectedness of our existence, none of which necessarily supports the claim that we must attribute that existence to particular pre-planning, by the cosmos and for us. Every person exists because a particular egg (one out of roughly 500 ovulated by his or her mother over the latter's lifetime) encountered a particular sperm (one out of roughly 150 million produced by his or her father in a single ejaculation). Every member of the human population – roughly 7.5 billion – can, therefore, insist that his or her existence was fore-ordained, evidence of a kind of me-thropic principle.

For a more wide-ranging example, the Chicxulub asteroid crashed into what is today Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula 66 million years ago, eventually wiping out the dinosaurs and clearing a path for the rise of mammals and eventually, us. Without that impact and the ecological niches that were opened up by the demise of those previously dominant dinosaurs, it is extremely unlikely that our species would ever have evolved. Had things proceeded differently, the prospect is vanishingly smaller yet that I would be writing this blog, or that you would be reading it.

Should we therefore see the Chicxulub impact as further evidence that our planet was fine-tuned, with my writing and your reading in mind? And that the dinosaurs’ destruction was mere collateral damage en route to the ultimate goal of creating Homo sapiens roughly 65 million years later? If so, then we are responsible for that asteroid and were it not for the universe’s goal of producing us, T. rex and company would still be around. Mazel tov! We really are important!

Physics has additional possible explanations for what masquerades as cosmic fine-tuning. Of these, one of the more intriguing (albeit difficult to grasp) is the possibility of “multiverses,” which revisits the question of probabilities before versus after an event, albeit in somewhat different guise. Here is astrophysicist Martin Rees:

"There may be many “universes” of which ours is just one. In the others, some laws and physical constants would be different. But our universe would not be just a random one. It would belong to an unusual subset that offered a habitat conducive to the emergence of complexity and consciousness. The analogy of the watchmaker would be off the mark. Instead, the cosmos may have something in common with an off-the-rack clothes shop: if the shop has a large stock, we are not surprised to find one suit that fits. Likewise, if our universe is selected from a multiverse, its seemingly designed or fine-tuned features would not be surprising.[i]."

Under the multiverse hypothesis, there is not only a potentially infinite number of universes, but the basic physical laws and constants might well vary across them. It is a radically difficult concept, but perhaps no weirder than basic quantum mechanics, which we now know to be valid. It was recently reported that there are something like two trillion galaxies in the currently known universe, which is about 20 times more than had previously been thought.[ii] Each galaxy consists of millions – in some cases, billions – of stars, many of which have their own planets. And although it appears that the fundamental physical constants hold across the known galaxies, the mere fact that there are so many (the overwhelming majority of which are not in any meaningful sense “known”) opens the possibility that our Earthly experience may be a small subset of the possible – even without introducing the prospect of multiple universes.

Niall Shanks suggests that the multiverse hypothesis “does to the anthropic universe what Copernicus’s heliocentric hypothesis did to the cosmological vision of the Earth as a fixed center of the universe.”[iii] Now, post-Copernicus (and Kepler, Galileo and others), the Earth is known to be just one planet among many, in one galaxy among many. Perhaps we’re just the occupants of one universe among many. Interestingly, even as he demoted the Earth, Copernicus himself placed the Sun in the center of the universe, just as he assumed that planetary orbits were perfect circles, an assumption that was widespread in early astronomy, based on the notion that the “heavenly bodies” are necessarily perfect, just as, in their geometry, circles are perfect. Galileo, too, assumed that planetary orbits were circular; it wasn’t until Kepler – using data from the aforementioned Tycho Brahe - that astronomers recognized they are elliptical. The cosmos, like the human body, is far from perfect. But like the human body and the bodies of all other organisms, it is good enough to have permitted us and them to exist.

In my next and final post on the question of whether the universe is anthropic, we’ll take a look at quantum weirdness, along with other weirdnesses.

David P. Barash is professor of psychology emeritus at the University of Washington. His most recent book relevant to this topic is Through a Glass Brightly: using science to see our species as we really are (2018, Oxford University Press).

[i] Martin Rees. 2001. Our Cosmic Habitat. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[ii] .com/news/universe-has-ten-times-more-galaxies-than-researchers-thought-1.20809

[iii] Niall Shanks. 2004. God, the Devil, and Darwin. New York: Oxford University Press.

====== 130 ========

HOW MANY FACES DO YOU KNOW?

Source: TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock

Throughout our lives, we commit faces to . We can recall classmates from elementary school, neighbors who share our morning commute, and the actors in our favorite television shows. But how many of those faces are stashed in a permanent mental repository?

Researchers at the University of York sought to pin down that number—estimating that people know an average of 5,000 faces. And that figure simply represents the number of faces we might know, not the number we are capable of knowing.

“We may not have an upper limit for face learning,” says Rob Jenkins, the lead author of the study, which was published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The thousands of faces we commit to memory may only be the tip of the iceberg for this mental capacity.

Jenkins and his colleagues asked 25 participants, between 18 and 61 years old, to list people whose faces they would clearly recognize. The researchers helped by providing prompts to consider specific social niches, such as colleagues, of family, and retail staff. Participants also listed every famous figure they would recognize.

Next, the investigators showed participants a slideshow of famous faces and calculated a ratio based on the number of faces they recognized in the lineup and the number of famous faces they had initially said they would recognize. (This was not done with non-famous faces, since it wasn’t feasible to collect photos of them.) Applying that ratio to participants' self-generated lists of both famous and non-famous faces allowed the researchers to arrive at a final estimate.

The concluded that on average, participants’ minds held an inventory of roughly 5,000 faces. The capacity differed greatly between participants, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. That variation may be due in part to the in which someone was raised—a rural or urban area, for example—as well as their level of exposure, Jenkins speculates.

As humans transitioned from living in small, tight-knit communities to a large, interconnected world, the ability for facial learning appears to be up to the task. “It seems that if you’re building equipment that allows you to differentiate between a couple of hundred individuals, in doing that you’re building apparatus that’s also good for several thousand,” Jenkins says. “Maybe you can’t achieve the former aim without incidentally gaining the additional capacity we use now.”

The collection of faces we know is impressive given that learning a new face requires observing and internalizing the same visage with various expressions, at different ages, and in assorted contexts. A face can look different when its owner puts on makeup, gets a haircut, ages five years, or appears in a darkened restaurant rather than a brightly lit room. “The key to learning each face is learning the person’s variability,” Jenkins says. “You have to be exposed to the way the face changes.” (Importantly, people generally tend to be poor at remembering faces they encountered only briefly, he says. That deficit becomes exceedingly important in legal or forensic situations, such as during eyewitness testimony.)

Identifying how many faces people recognize—and how those faces become familiar—is relevant for deficits of face perception, says Wilma Bainbridge, a post-doctoral researcher at the National Institute of Mental who studies the perception and memorability of images. For example, she suggests, face vocabulary could potentially be used as a marker of perceptual decline in the course of Alzheimer’s disease.

The also possesses a strong capacity for object memory, yet evidence suggests that faces require a unique form of processing, Bainbridge says. Humans are drawn to the geometry of faces from an early age: Research demonstrates that infants show a preference for an image of two dots above a third (which more closely mimics a face) compared to two dots below a third. Faces are also visually potent; another study found that photographs with faces were more memorable than those without faces, as measured by a computer game asking participants whether they had seen a given image before.

Evolutionary adaptiveness can help explain humans’ skill for face memory in particular. Faces that embody more emotion or threat are especially enduring, Bainbridge says. “It may be less important to know a familiar or unfamiliar place, because you can take time to explore,” Bainbridge says. “But it could be really important to pick out your friends and your enemies.”

====== 131 ========

HOW FREE IS OUR WILL?

Source: Pixabay

When I give talks demonstrating that we all have innate psychological predispositions – traits that influence our behavior across our lifetimes – I often get asked what implications this has for . If our behaviors are affected in some way by our genes or by the way our brains are wired, doesn’t that mean that we’re really not that free after all?

The answer depends, I think, on the kind of free will you’re after and on an of the mechanisms by which we make choices. And let me say at the outset that we do make choices. The idea that has somehow done away with free will altogether or proven that it is an illusion is nonsense. All neuroscience has shown is that when you are making decisions, things are happening in your brain.

This is, to put it mildly, not a surprise: Where else would things be happening? And it really has no implications for free will, unless you are a dualist. If you think of the mind as some kind of object that has existence independent of the brain, then I suppose you might be upset to find that your decisions have a physical basis in brain activity. But if you think of “mind” not as an object but as an activity or process – the brain in action – then, well, seeing the brain in action as you make a decision is just what you’d expect.

So, yes, we make choices – really, really. But how free are those choices? How much are they constrained by other things over which we really have no control? How much are they affected by antecedent causes?

In particular, if I have some psychological traits over which I had (and continue to have) no control, and those traits influence my behavior (or at least my behavioral tendencies) then am I really fully in control of my own actions? If someone asks me to a party and I decide not to go, is that because I’m wired to be shy? Perhaps I could have chosen to go, and maybe sometimes I do, but maybe only because I happen to be in a sociable mood or feeling brave that day, and maybe I am not in control of that either.

Well, the first thing to say is that this problem arises no matter the origin of our psychological traits. In my book INNATE, I present the evidence that variation in and in the processes of brain development lead to innate psychological differences between people, which affect the trajectory of their lives, influencing their experiences, the way they react to them, and the types of habitual behaviors they develop. But if you’d rather believe—in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence—that all such traits come completely from experience instead, the problem is just as acute.

If we each have real and stable characteristics of temperament and , then it doesn’t really matter for this question of free will whether they came from genetics and brain development, or our experiences and . In either situation, some antecedent causes have affected the physical structures of our brains in a way that influences our decisions, right now, at this moment. In which case, you could argue, that our will is not so free after all.

In one sense, this is trivial – our decisions, in any given situation, are of course affected by our prior experiences and our current . The whole point of having a brain is that it lets you learn from the results of actions you have taken in the past in various types of scenarios. That information is then used to predict the outcomes of a range of possible actions that could be taken when such a scenario is encountered again.

I don’t think anyone sees that as undermining our free will – indeed, you could say that choosing between those options, based on what we have learned of the world, in order to further our own goals, is the process of free will in action.

It is the idea that the options open to us are constrained somehow by our underlying psychological predispositions that seems to threaten our freedom.

And this does seem to be the case. In the first instance, the range of options that even occur to us – that somehow arise in our brains for consideration – is limited by our personality traits and experiences. Two different people in ostensibly the same situation, with the same primary goal, may nevertheless be choosing from a very different set of possible actions. This is because the interplay of their underlying traits and their experiences across their lives will have created a very different set of additional goals, constraints, and heuristics.

For example, two people in a meeting may share a goal of advancing their ideas on some topic under discussion. But one of them may have a conflicting goal – avoid social at all costs. This may be due to a natural inclination towards , reinforced by a lifetime of experience, where social interaction is not as intrinsically rewarding as it is for other people, and where the subjective feeling of embarrassment is more acutely felt.

Even if it is not consciously perceived, that goal of avoiding embarrassment may act as a powerful constraint on the person’s behavior. They may come home and complain to their partner how they’d wished they’d been brave enough to speak up – instead, stupid Gary who never shuts up dominated the meeting as usual and ended up getting his way. “I wish I had more !”, they might say, conceding that their conscious desires were somehow thwarted by their underlying psychological make-up. ]

The decider-in-chief

This seems to be the type of thing people are worrying about when confronted with the evidence that we really do have lasting psychological traits that influence our behavior. And this worry appears to be more keenly felt when such traits are shown to have a physical basis in the way our brains are wired. It seems to threaten the primacy of our conscious selves in the process.

Perhaps we’re like a puppet president – making “decisions” about what to do, but only from the highly limited set of options presented to us by the generals and civil servants – limited based on criteria we are never aware of. Or maybe we’re not even really making the decisions at all – perhaps even that stage of the process is dominated by factors. Maybe we’re like a magician’s stooge, impelled to make certain decisions through influences beyond our apprehension, with only an illusion of control.

Personally, I think this goes too far. It can certainly be demonstrated that many of the decisions we make are affected by things of which we are not aware. That does not mean that all the decisions we make are like that. Even if we’re on autopilot most of the time, that doesn’t mean we can’t ever take the controls. And anyway, being on cognitive autopilot most of the time is not necessarily a bad thing – quite the opposite, in fact.

The last thing we would want is to have to make decisions from first principles every time we are doing something. If we had to consciously weigh up every aspect of every decision in every situation we find ourselves in we’d be paralyzed by indecision. And we’d quickly be some other critter’s lunch. Life comes at you fast: Vacillate and die.

Habits and heuristics

Instead, most of our behavior is effectively habitual. We learn from experience over our lifetimes that certain behaviors are profitable or appropriate in certain situations – these are the heuristics that subconsciously guide most of our actions. And our behavior is even shaped by our ancestor’s experiences, in the sense that we have inherited a suite of genetically determined behavioral tendencies that were adaptive in the environments and scenarios that our ancestors tended to find themselves in in the past.

Now, some people argue that if we can’t make decisions that are completely divorced from any preceding events, effects, or causes, that we are not really completely free at all. But why would we want to do that? Totally free decisions, uninformed by any prior events, would be essentially random and pointless (and highly likely to get you killed sooner or later).

Being free – to my mind at least – doesn’t mean making decisions for no reasons, it means making them for your reasons. Indeed, I would argue that this is exactly what is required to allow any kind of continuity of the self. If you were just doing things on a whim all the time, what would it mean to be you? We accrue our habits and beliefs and intentions and goals over our lifetime, and they collectively affect how actions are suggested and evaluated.

Whether we are conscious of that is another question. Most of our reasons for doing things are tacit and implicit – they’ve been wired into our nervous systems without our even being aware of them. But they’re still part of us ­– you could argue they’re precisely what makes us us. Even if most of that decision-making happens subconsciously, it’s still you doing it.

Ultimately, whether you think you have free will or not may depend less on the definition of “free will” and more on the definition of “you." If you identify just as the president – the decider-in-chief – then maybe you’ll be dismayed at how little control you seem to have or how rarely you really exercise it. (Not never, but maybe less often than your ego might like to think).

But that brings us back to a very dualist position, identifying you with only your conscious mind, as if it can somehow be separated from all the underlying workings of your brain. Perhaps it’s more appropriate to think that you really comprise all of the machinery of , even the bits that the president never sees or is not even aware exists.

That machinery is shaped by our shared evolutionary past, by each individual’s genetic heritage, by the particular trajectories of development of their brain, and by their accumulated experiences over their lifetime. Those things all shape the way we tend to behave in any given circumstance. That doesn’t mean we can never exercise deliberative and conscious control over our decisions – just that most of the time we don’t (in part because most of the time we don’t need to).

Can we choose not to be a certain way? No, probably not. But can we choose to act in a certain way despite having opposing tendencies – yes, absolutely, in some circumstances at least. This may be effortful – it may require habits of introspection and a high degree of self-awareness and – but it can clearly be done. In fact, one of the strongest pieces of evidence that we really do have free will is that some people seem to have more of it than others.

====== 132 ========

HOW SCHOOLS THWART PASSIONS

This post is a somewhat modified version of the transcript of a TEDx talk I delivered in May, 2018.

Follow your passions. That’s what almost every commencement speaker says to the new graduates. It’s almost cruel. If all you’ve been doing is school and school-like stuff, how do you have any idea what your passions might be or how to follow them? To find and follow your passions you need lots of time and freedom to play. Play, almost by definition, IS following your passions. But we’ve pretty much removed play from young people’s lives.

Source: Max Pixel. Creative Commons

Over the past several decades we’ve continuously increased the amount of time that children spend at school, and at schoolwork at home, and at school-like activities outside of school. We’ve turned into a time of résumé building. You don’t build passions by building a résumé, trying to impress other people. You build passions by doing what you , regardless of what others think. It’s no surprise that people who are famous for their passionate achievements have often declared their dislike or even hatred of school. For quotes about schooling from 50 such people, see here.

Wounded by School

Some years ago, Kirsten Olson, who was then a Harvard graduate student, began to conduct research on the ways that highly successful people were inspired by their experiences at school. She hoped to document how passions were kindled by school. But her early findings led her to turn that thesis around by 180 degrees. The book that eventually came out of that work is entitled Wounded by School. [For my review of the book, see here.] Here is quotation from the book’s forward, written by her thesis advisor Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot: "In her first foray into the field--in-depth interviews with an award-winning architect, a distinguished professor, a writer, a executive--Olson expected to hear stories of joyful and productive learning…. Instead, she discovered the shadows of pain, disappointment, even in their vivid recollections of schooling. Instead of the light she expected, she found darkness.And their stories did not merely refer to old wounds now healed; they recalled deeply embedded wounds that still bruised and ached, wounds that still compromised and distorted their sense of themselves as persons and professionals."

Since the time when Olson’s respondents would have been in school, school has become even more oppressive. Recess has been reduced or removed. Creative activities have been largely removed from the curriculum. Homework has been increased. All in the name of improving scores on multiple-choice, one-right-answer standardized tests. The results of all this are not surprising. Research has shown that over these same decades, creative thinking has declined at all grade levels (here); and , , and among young people have increased (here and here). A 2014 survey by the American Psychological Association found that were the most people in America, and 83% of them attributed their stress to school (here). These are not conditions that promote the development of passionate interests.

My brother Fred

Now I’m going to switch to something happier, and tell you about my youngest brother Fred Carlson. His last name is different from mine because he has a different father. Fred is 12 years younger than me, so he started 1st grade in public school the same year I started college. He lasted there through 4th grade. Around that time my mother became something of a hippie and moved onto a Vermont commune with my younger brothers. Fred left public school then and attended a little free school, which my mother helped to start. The school had no imposed curriculum and he could do there whatever he wished.

That school wasn’t certified as a high school, however, so, at age 14, he enrolled in 9th grade at the local public school. On his second day there the principal told him, “We don’t like you hippie types around here.” So he left and never went back. Then, with no school, he hung around the commune for a couple of years and helped to build a house. He got interested in wood and carpentry. He also got interested in music and learned to play guitar and banjo.

When he was 16 he enrolled in a publicly supported program designed for high-school dropouts. The guy who ran the program asked him what he’d like to do, and he said, “I’d like to build a banjo.” Nobody there knew anything about instrument building, but the head of the program helped Fred find a local person, a guy named Ken, who had a woodworking shop and knew just a little about banjo building. And so, with Ken’s help, Fred built a banjo. After that, Fred used the small sum of money that his father had saved for his to take a 6-week course at a guitar-building school and to purchase the equipment he needed to set up his own shop. The rest is history.

Source: Fred Carlson, Beyond the Trees

By the time Fred was 21 years old, one of his beautiful guitars was on display at the Smithsonian Museum. Ever since then he’s continued to make one instrument after another, each one different from any of the others; each one a new invention. He is famous among luthiers for his artistry, , and craftsmanship. (For one example, see the inserted photo; for other examples, see here.) Fred believes, and so do I, that if he had stayed in school he would never have found his passion.

Self-Directed Education as the Pursuit of Passions

I’ve spent part of my academic researching the outcomes of Self-Directed Education—that is, outcomes for people who did not go to a curriculum-based school, but, instead, educated themselves by pursuing their own interests. These include, many years ago, a study of the graduates of the Sudbury Valley School, in Massachusetts, where students, from age 4 on through late teenage years, are free all day to pursue their own interests; and, more recently, a study of grown unschoolers (see here and here). Unschoolers are people who for legal purposes are homeschoolers, but are not bound by a curriculum and are continuously free to pursue their own interests. The most interesting finding, for our concern now, is that a high percentage of these young adults were pursuing careers that were direct extensions of passionate interests they had developed as children in play. Here are a few examples:

A girl who loved to play with boats went on, as a teenager, to apprentice herself to a ship captain and then became captain, herself, of a cruise ship.

Another young girl played with dolls, as many girls do. Then she started making doll clothes; then clothes for herself and her . At the time of our study she was head of a pattern-making department in the high-fashion dress industry.

A boy was passionate about all kinds of constructive play. He would make whole villages and factories, to scale, out of modeling clay. As a teenager he’d hang around local garages and learn about automobile mechanics by asking and watching. At the time of the study he was a much sought-after machinist and inventor.

Another child fell in love with science fiction. Through that he discovered mathematics and became passionate about it. He went on to become a math professor.

Still another was obsessed with computers as a teenager. At the time of the study he was 22 years old and founder and head of a very successful software development company

A girl fell in love with circuses when she was 3 years old and began training to become a performer at age 5. By the time she was a teenager she was performing professionally as a trapeze artist, and from age 19-24 she and her best friend founded and ran their own contemporary circus company.

A boy became passionate about making YouTube vides with friends at age 11. In his teens he began to study filmmaking. His experience and passion led him to be hired, at age 18, as production assistant by a major film company. At age 20, at the time of the survey, he was working with a famous director in Los Angeles on the production of a major film.

A boy by age 15 was pursuing three passionate interests—wilderness hiking, paragliding, and photography. At age 21, at the time of the survey, he was successfully pursuing a career as an aerial wilderness photographer, combining all three of his passions.

A girl who had previously been in a traditional school revolted, at age 13, and left school never to return. She then developed passionate interests in art, revolutions, and wildlife. At the time of the survey, at age 28, she was a full-time Greenpeace activist, fundraiser, and manager.

Source: Molly and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack MacDonald, with permission

Source: Marley and Akilah Richards, with permission

These are just some of the many examples documented in my research. All of these people were able to discover and pursue their passions because they had left, or had never enrolled in, a curriculum-based school.

More recently I asked some of my unschooling friends about their young children’s passions. Here are three examples of what I learned:

Kerry McDonald’s daughter Molly has several passionate interests, one of which is baking. When someone asked her, when she was 9 or 10 years old, what she wanted to be when she grew up, she replied: “A baker, but I already am one." One thing I’ve learned is that people on the Self-Directed Education path don’t divide life into a period of preparing for the future followed by a period of living that future. They don’t distinguish between learning and living or learning and doing. That’s true when they are children and it’s still true when they are adults.

Molly’s younger brother Jack is heavily into photography. He particularly admires and emulates the work of the famous landscape photographer Ansel Adams. I’ve attached one of Jack’s artistic photographs, called “reflections.”

Akilah Richards’s daughter Marley has a beautiful voice and is deeply into voice acting. By age 13 she already had gigs providing the voice for animations and fan fiction audios. Her voice acting has also led her to learn Japanese, because some of the works she most enjoys were produced in Japan. By age 14 she was tutoring another young person in Japanese.

The great advantage that these young people have in life is this: They are not going to school.

So, How Does School Thwart Passions?

It’s almost too obvious. Schools thwart passions by:

Requiring everyone to do the same things at the same time. It’s not possible for all the children in a room to be passionately interested in the same thing at the same time. Replacing intrinsic with extrinsic motivators, such as grades and trophies. To pursue a passion you have to focus on what YOU want to do, not try to impress others or win honors. Threatening students with failure or , which generates . Fear freezes the mind into rigid ways of thinking and negates the possibility of passionate interest. Teaching that there is one right answer to every question, or one right way to do what you are supposed to do. That’s a surefire way to nip any possible emerging interest in the bud. Teaching children that learning is work and that play, at best, is just a break from learning. But anyone involved in a passionate interest knows that play and learning and work are one and the same.

So, in conclusion, if we want our children to grow up with passionate interests, we must find alternatives to school. Or, at least, we must reduce the role of school and school-like activities in their lives and increase greatly their opportunities to discover and do what they like to do—that is, to play.

What has been your experience with finding and pursuing a passionate interest? Are you one of the lucky ones whose career is a manifestation of passion and play? How did you discover that passion? This blog is in part a forum for discussion, so please share your comments, questions, and stories in the comments section below.

====== 133 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY UK

How do we make nudges work better, and for longer? By better characterizing the environment in which we want to improve the decisions people make.

====== 134 ========

WHY MANY WOMEN DON’T FEEL THANKFUL ON THANKSGIVING

Behind every beautiful thanksgiving dinner and touching family photograph lies hours and hours of hard labor, which probably was performed by a woman.

Now this is not true for every family. In some families, everyone contributes to planning, cleaning, cooking, and hosting. In other families, one person (often but not always a woman) does the bulk of the work but truly finds it a labor of . If one of those scenarios apply to you, or if you have a different way of celebrating (or not celebrating) the holiday that you enjoy, you might not find this post relevant.

However, if you are one of the many women who are overwhelmed and exhausted, and yet somehow have carved out the time to read this post, this one is for you.

To understand where we are today in terms of and the holidays, it’s helpful to think about the broader context of gender and (paid and unpaid) labor.

The US Department of Labor gathers data on who is working, how many hours, and where. In the 1960s, men and women actually worked about the same number of hours per week. However, men typically worked outside the home, and women typically worked inside the home. Since the 1960s, women have increased the number of hours that they work outside the home, and men have increased the number of hours that they work inside the home. However, the increases have not been at the same rate. The number of hours that women work outside the home has increased more than the number of hours that men work inside the home. This means that women are still doing more housework and childcare than men. This also means that the total number of hours worked per week (hours outside the home + hours inside the home) is greater for women then men. The difference is relatively small; women work about five hours more per week than men. Still, women would probably like those hours back. Across a month, this would add up to 20 hours that they could use however they wanted!

In fact, the data show that men typically devote their five extra hours each week to leisure. Like watching football on TV. Which brings us back to Thanksgiving…

With this in mind, it is not surprising that women do most of the work on Thanksgiving. They typically do most of the work at home, and the “traditional” of Thanksgiving probably exacerbates this. At Thanksgiving, people often want to do things like their did, and their grandparents did, which makes it even more likely that the work required to celebrate the holiday will fall to women.

Moreover, the extra work that women do is not limited to cooking and cleaning. Women also typically manage the social and emotional tone of the day. This is referred to as emotional labor. Sociologist Arlie Hochschlid coined this term in the context of the , but the term applies to the home as well. Examples include (but are not limited to): making sure that conservative Aunt Sally is not seated next to cousin Frank who’s studying at Berkley, getting all of the invitations out within a matter of minutes so that no one feels that they were invited last (and doing so without using social or texting because that would be tacky), and providing children with activities and entertainment that are neither boring nor overstimulating.

Is it really surprising, then, that many women do not feel all that on Thanksgiving? Sure, in the big picture they are thankful for their family and loved ones and the opportunity to be together. However, expecting a person who got up at 4am to stuff a cold turkey to be happy, relaxed, and feeling thankful at 4pm may not be realistic.

With that in mind, here are a few tips for the day.

1. Don’t pressure yourself to feel thankful. It’s ok not to feel all that thankful on Thanksgiving. Maybe you will feel thankful on a different, less hectic day instead. Mixed feelings also are allowed. Whatever you feel is valid and no one can take that away from you.

2. Make minor changes. If you typically do all of the heavy lifting on Thanksgiving, major changes are probably not going to happen in (literally) a day. However, delegate as much as you can, from setting the table to playing with small children so that they are not underfoot. You may think that asking for help with small things won’t make a difference, but it adds up.

3. Lay the groundwork for next year. If you want share responsibility for the holiday more equitably in the future, now is a good time to lay the groundwork. When people ask how you’re doing, it is ok to say that you are a little tired, stressed, etc. and that maybe next year you should not try to do it all yourself. Hopefully, this will plant a seed for change.

4. Plan a time just for you. Mark off at least an hour to do something that you want to after the celebration is over. Sitting down with a cup of tea or a glass of wine to read a book or enjoying a bubble bath are good choices. (Please note that your activity cannot be combined with something that you already planned to do for others, such as going for pedicures with your six nieces who range in age from preschool to high school). When things get hectic or stressful during the holiday, picture that moment when you will sit quietly with a book or slide into your bath.

5. Think about next year. When it is all over, spend some time thinking about what you would like to stay the same for next year and what you would like to change. Then, in the coming months, make time to talk honestly with others about this. Conversations about switching up who does what for the holidays will go more smoothly ahead of time than in the heat of the moment.

Time is getting short, and I should leave you now to bake pies and peel potatoes. To sign off, I will not say “Have a Happy Thanksgiving!!” to those of you feel stressed or overwhelmed. Instead, I will say that I hope that you can find some happy moments during your busy holiday. Good luck, ladies. And Godspeed!

Postscript: This post refers to how men and women spend their time on average, not to every man or woman. If you are a man, and are reading a Psychology Today post about how gender dynamics affect the division of labor on holidays, there is a good chance that you already are the type of guy who is doing his fair share preparing for the day. If that’s the case, make sure to get in on the tea, wine, or bubble bath when the day has come to an end….

====== 135 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY UK

Source: D. Erdmann & D. Blankenstein, mit freudnlicher Genehmigung

You can’t go home again. —Thomas Wolfe

Yes, you can. —Homer (implied)

The trope of going native is familiar and poorly understood (Krueger, 2017). Some hipsters and other adolescents take a playful transitional approach, experimenting with garb or hairdos before returning to the square & normative. When going native becomes a deeper project, what does it do to a person’s ? How does he [bear with me on the choice of ] see himself and how do others see him? How do these perceptions differ between the members of his original and his adopted group?

Alexander von Humboldt, though “interested in everything” famously resisted going native, while is friend Bonpland, a French botanist, did. Humboldt returned to his ancestral Berlin; Bonpland settled in Argentina, growing crops and fathering children. Humboldt, here above chilling poolside in Mérida, inspired a series of conferences, which explore psychological, sociological, historical, and literary aspects of travel. I signed up to discuss Gonzalo Guerrero.

Source: J. Krueger

In the Yucatán peninsula, Gonzalo Guerrero is the archetype of going native. More myth than man, we can’t be sure that he existed, but this is not essential to this story. We do know that he looms large in the Yucatec imagination. According to the Spanish chroniclers of the late 16th Century, who are less than completely reliable, Gonzalo was cast away on the shore now known as the Mayan Riviera, before rising to prominence among a Mayan group in the Chetumal region. He led them in war against their neighbors and then again against Spanish intruders, and he fathered the first generation of mestizos. For Gonzalo, going native was a survival strategy. The legends that have grown up around him emphasize his martial prowess, and various statues depict him as a warrior. His Spanish family name having been lost, Gonzalo is now remembered as Gonzalo Guerrero, Gonzalo the Warrior. A painting by Fernando Castro Pacheco, displayed in the Palacio del Gobierno in Mérida, highlights a different aspect (see photo to the left). Here, Gonzalo is seen clutching his family and looking vulnerable. The play of light enhances him and his psychological tension. His family remains in the shadows, perhaps to remind us of essential differences. This painting is remarkable in its departure from the Gonzalo’s iconic statuary representation. In stone, Gonzalo presents as strong, defiant, and bearded, but otherwise fully Mayanized. In the painting, we get a glimpse of going-native as a process ridden with conflict.

Oddly, psychological science has little to say about the concept of going native. Where are the theories and empirical studies? Research is squarely focused on issues of immigration, assimilation, dual consciousness, and bi- or multi-culturalism. Important as these issues are, they fail to plumb the experience of those individuals who penetrate an alien culture, thereby risking to be radically transformed. Social psychology, as a , has a tradition of focusing on the experience of disempowered groups. This concern may have created a blind spot for the concept of going native because – hipsters aside – this concept is tied to European expansion, domination, and colonialism. It is here that those who go native swim against a most powerful historical current. The default perception is to see these anadromous adventurers as traitors and savages-by-choice. In the subcontinental Indian context, for example, Kipling warned such types to “never forget that one is a Sahib” (cited in White, 2010).

It may be difficult to think of specific historical examples of individuals gone native, but it seems safe to say that the concept has a foothold in the European imagination; it evokes images and possibilities both alluring and forbidden. With reliable historical data being scarce, a handful of literary treatments drive the dominant narrative. At the extremes, we find characters like the Earl of Greystoke, whose natives are not even human, or the demonic Colonel Walter Kurtz, who loses his mind (“The horror!”). In our time of industrial cultural production, the threat and of going native is occasionally resolved by a hero who becomes a native to save the natives. John Dunbar dances with wolves to save the Lakota, and the disabled anti-hero Jake Sully in James Cameron’s Avatar scores a triumphant victory over white industrial man (Krueger, 2010). He achieves this victory by going native more fully than anyone before. He is embodied as one. Hence the Avatar.

There is an instructive difference here. Dunbar returns to the white man’s world, presumably in yet another attempt to do good for the natives, whereas Sully’s mind is eventually made to reside in the Avatar in permanencia. Dunbar reconnects with ‘home,’ whereas Sully cuts all ties. Sully drinks up the cup of going native. Dunbar, in other words, leans on the mythology of the Odyssey, where the trials and tribulations of life are eventually rewarded with a hero’s return (Humboldt), whereas Sully chooses irrevocable immersion (Bonpland). Gonzalo though, if he existed, was the real Avatar. Flores (2012) notes both visual and psychological similarities. Both the Avatar and Gonzalo fight on the side of and the natives against European expansion and destruction. Gonzalo loses in the short term, but re-emerges as the Urvater (first father) of a new ; the Avatar wins in a Hollywoodian happy ending, which must come as a decisive victory of good over evil.

Across the types of Tarzan, Kurtz, Costner, and the Avatar, we encounter key elements of the European imagination: the fascination with nature, and creatures living in harmony with it. The desire to have what they have, and to take it from them by force. Then, there is the of being overwhelmed by nature and the natives, of not being able to cope with their very different world, and to either die or be swallowed up. This is a form of ego anxiety ( , 1965/1933). The emotional base of European supremacy is ambivalent (Ullrich & Krueger, 2010).

Returning to Gonzalo, we must concede that we know very little about him. One man who became obsessed with Gonzalo is Canadian Professor of English Robert Calder, who after decades of searching for Gonzalo wrote a wonderful book to introduce us to the legend and the few bits of evidence that have been handed down (Calder, 2017; see also Fray Diego de Landa’s, 1566, summary). Gonzalo is not a capitan, he is a marinero. His ship sinks in a storm (Odysseus), and he and some shipmates wash up on the Yucatec shore. The local Maya capture and eat most of them, but they save Gonzalo and a few others to be fattened first and eaten later. Gonzalo and a padre by the name of Jerónimo de Aguilar escape and wind up with a friendlier group of Maya down near Chetumal. They are still slaves, but they manage to build trust and obtain privileges.

The plot thickens when Gonzalo’s and Jerónimo’s strategies diverge. Gonzalo goes native, while Jerónimo holds on to as much of his Spanish identity as he can. To Jerónimo, Catholicism and the Crown remain anchors, while Gonzalo transforms his body with tattoos and piercings. He could shave his beard, but, like another Mexican icon of the blessed imagination – the most interesting man in the world – he chooses not to. To these Maya, Gonzalo’s martial skills make him more valuable alive than dead. Nachán Ka’an, the cacique, uses him against his neighbors and later against the Spanish. Jerónimo has a harder time. He bets on total submission. One of his strategies is to convince his captors that he will not bother their women. They test his will by sending a beautiful girl to tempt him; Jerónimo resists – or so he says. As Gonzalo earns the chief’s trust, he is eventually made a captain (Nakom) to lead warriors, and given the hand of the chief’s daughter, Zazil Há. Gonzalo makes war and . From a sociological standpoint, his assimilation is now complete. He has gone fully native. From a psychological standpoint, certain questions remain. How has his identity, his self-conception changed? Can we even know?

Jerónimo is our only source, and perhaps he made it all up. When Cortés lands in the Yucatán, Jerónimo tells him that there is another Spaniard in the selva. Cortés tells Jerónimo to fetch him, and Jerónimo goes and pleads with Gonzalo to return to the Spanish banner. Gonzalo declines, pointing to his commitments, some of which (e.g., his tattoos, his family) are irreversible. Conceivably, Gonzalo is making a rational decision, judging correctly that he would not be able to function again in the Spanish context. He realizes perhaps that he who has gone native will be viewed with suspicion upon return. Gonzalo cannot go back because his transformed body marks him as a heathen. Indeed, in an attempt to make sense of Gonzalo’s choices, one of the chroniclers, Fernández de Oviedo, speculated Gonzalo was a Muslim, a Jew, or a Converso, but no real Catholic (Calder, 2017). Who else would join the savages?! Clendinnen (cited by Calder, 2017, p. 83) put her finger on the psychological spot when writing that “for one of their own to acquiesce in such filthiness, and to choose it over his own and his own people, was to strike at the heart of their sense of self.” The identity of the native-goer and the identities of the referent groups are interwoven.

I have by necessity emphasized the male and the European perspective. What about the female and Mayan view? Who is Zazil Há, and what is her role in Gonzalo’s transformation? Without her, his fate and story might look rather different. This is a chapter that wants to be written. Meanwhile, we are left to ponder questions of identity that pervade the stories we tell about ourselves (McAdams & McLean, 2013). Extreme cases like Gonzalo are instructive because they highlight conflict and transformation. Such cases are tests of identity. Various parts of the Gonzalo story may resonate with you. Perhaps Gonzalo can encourage us to take another look at where we stand and why. What are the forces that shape us, and how will we respond when a storm throws us up against an unfamiliar shore.

Home to Homer

There is a curious sociological side to the reception of Gonzalo. In the Yucatán, he is widely known and revered. His legend is a rallying point against the official point of view, which still emphasizes the deeds of the conquistadors (in Mérida, these are the Montejos, father and son [el mozo]). The Yucatán is Maya country and far removed from Central Mexico, where the Aztecs provide the indigenous reference point. There, Cortés is credited with creating the race of mestizos with his slave, interpreter, and mistress, La Malinche. Cortés is reviled in the popular imagination there (just look at how Diego Rivera depicted him). Now consider the psychological problem: how can a positive image of an ingroup – here: la raza of mestizos – be constructed on the back of a raptor Urvater? The Yucatecans have solved this problem by embracing Gonzalo. Their ethnic identity is a blend of the Mayan, the mestizo, and the Mexican, and they can trace the mix to someone they can love.

And this is possible, I submit, because Ganzalo took the leap without a safety net. Gonzalo’s journey is not an Odyssey. In the Odyssey, the eventual return home is the engine behind the voyage; in Gonzalo, the hero does not look back to look forward. In conversation in Mérida, colleagues asked me why I did not consider Cabeza de Vaca as an exemplar of going native. Cabeza was shipwrecked in what is now Florida and walked all the way to the city of Mexico, a journey that took him eight years and that gained him repute as a healer and shaman among native populations along the way (Reséndez, 2007). But Cabeza had one goal: to reach home. And he did. He was a modern-day Odysseus. Gonzalo, who took a different path, remains unique and his legend has much to teach us.

Calder, R. (2017). A hero for the Americas: The legend of Gonzalo Guerrero. Regina, Saskatchewan: University of Regina Press.

Flores, L. E. (2012). Avatar o el regreso to Gonzalo Guerrero. La Jornada Semanal, 880. https://www.jornada.com.mx/2012/01/15/sem-luis.html

Freud, S. (1965/1933). New introductory lectures on . ( . James Strachey). Oxford, England: W. W. Norton.

Krueger, J. I. (2010). Back to the story. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/gb/blog/one-among-many/201003/back-the-s...

Krueger, J. I. (2017). Going native. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/gb/blog/one-among-many/201708/going-native

Landa, D. de (1566). Relación de las cosas de Yucatán. 2nd ed. Mérida, Yucatán, September, 2011.

McAdams, D. P., & McLean, K. C. (2013). Narrative Identity. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 22, 233–238.

Reséndez, A. (2007). A journey so strange: The extraordinary tale of a shipwrecked Spaniard who walked across America in the Sixteenth Century. New York: Perseus.

Ullrich, J., & Krueger, J. I. (2010). Interpersonal liking from bivariate attitude similarity. Social Psychology and Science, 1, 214-221.

White, E. R. (2010). In search of identity: Inner diaspora and psychic healing in Rudyard Kipling's Kim and Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children. South Asian Review, 31, 9-26,

====== 136 ========

THANKSGIVING: GRATITUDE OR GRATIFICATION?

Yesterday was the fourth Thursday in November, the day we recognize as Thanksgiving. Like many – though pointedly not all - Americans, the author was fortunate to be in the company of loved ones. As anticipated eagerly, the centerpiece of the event was a carefully prepared, sumptuous dinner. People laughed, teased, and caught each other up with their news. At evening’s end, they sat by a fire telling stories and sharing pictures. Although no one stated this directly, it was clear that everyone felt somehow affirmed and reinvigorated, both for who they have been and for who they will be. Then the visitors got in their cars and went home.

Today is another special day, so-called Black Friday. No has proclaimed this a time of national consolidation; most of us are back at work. But tens of millions are bustling about the stores. Others are on-line. Officially – though unofficially it never ends - the Christmas season is underway. Shoppers dream of special bargains; retailers pray that months of red ink will end. Thank heavens that this year’s date, November 23, is the earliest the event can be.

Such goings-on should make us ponder the character of our country’s celebrations. Who are we as a people? What energizes us? What values do we hold dear?

In any society, public holidays are special moments dedicated to answering the above questions. For the most important of those occasions, workers – at least government workers – have the day off. Schools, post offices, and many other public services are closed. The stock market pauses; banks lock their doors. In the U.S., there are 10 “official” federal holidays:

New Year’s Day (Jan. 1)

Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (3rd Monday in January)

Washington’s Birthday (3rd Monday in February)

Memorial Day (last Monday in May)

Independence Day (July 4)

Labor Day (first Monday in September)

Columbus Day (first Monday in October)

Veterans Day (November 11)

Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November)

Christmas Day (December 25)

As the reader can see, the holidays are of different sorts. Two celebrate the sacrifices of soldiers; one, of working people. There is remembrance of a president, an explorer, and a social reformer. A day of nation founding is marked; so is a key holiday. One holiday (with its preceding night of revelry) is just a calendar beginning. Finally, there is Thanksgiving.

Other publicly celebrated times – such as Valentine’s Day, Saint Patrick’s Day, Easter, and Halloween – are not federally recognized. Nor is that mammoth sporting event, the Super Bowl.

Although U.S. holidays are distinctive in their purposes and origins – and in the political wrangles that led to their enshrinement – those differences tend to be blurred or assimilated by the general culture of the society, and particularly by its commercial culture. Put simply, most are now occasions to shop, travel, and be entertained.

Contrast this with some not so distant centuries in European history, when holidays were indeed holy days. Sometimes they featured parades down thoroughfares, with key social groups claiming their positions in line. Celebrants gathered in common spaces or churchyards. Under religious auspices, people made their own fun, romping together. Different ages, genders, occupations, and social ranks mixed. Childlike behaviors were encouraged; so were minor acts of disrespect and impiety. There were and games; food and drink were abundant. In such ways, local communities proclaimed their identities. In an age of arduous existence, holidays were times to relax and refresh oneself – and to explore alternative value systems that challenged secular hierarchies and their codes of conduct.

Pointedly then, holidays are times to stop and reconsider the character of one’s life, to dabble in unusual behaviors, and to dream of new ways of living. Routines, particularly work routines, should pause. Normally dispersed people should unite. At such moments, the present swings loose from its normal placement in the scheme of things. The past blooms. And the future takes on newly imagined themes.

For such reasons, let people remember fallen heroes, ponder founding principles, and honor the groups that continue to make society vital. It is no shame to mix those solemnities with youthful exuberance.

Our contemporary holidays take on some of these meanings. Most of us are capable, if only for a few moments, of honoring the ancestors who made possible our current patterns of existence. Despite our mythology of being a fiercely individualistic country, we are a social people who love to be in the presence of those we care about. We are pleased to be “off work.” We enjoy eating and drinking.

Thanksgiving is one of the times that shows us at our best. It is also, and not coincidentally, one of the least commercialized of the honored days. To be sure, grocery stores are in overdrive; one can buy decorative items. Still, the event is largely a blip between the much more heavily commercialized times of Halloween and Christmas. To be sure, there are parades, like the famous one sponsored by Macy’s; but these are clearly run-ups to Christmas with Santa’s float at the rear. The same is to be said for televised sports. There is a profusion of these, but they are not the biggest of Big Games, which come later in the year.

Let us acknowledge that public acts of “giving thanks” are important, even profound matters. When food supplies are scarce or problematic, as in many societies historically, the blessings of a good harvest are very real. Thanks are offered, in part to the human workers who produced the bounty but mostly to ’s god or gods, who allowed the community to maintain its precarious existence. In that sense, the 1621 fall feast of the Massachusetts pilgrims was not distinctive – other settling groups had done the same – except for its joining of Native Americans with the scruffy immigrants.

How did Thanksgiving become a national holiday? In an attempt to build nationhood and steel military resolve, the Continental Congress formally encouraged individual colonies to have days of thanksgiving during the Revolutionary War. These events – conceived as “national days of prayer, , and thanksgiving” continued after independence. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first uniformly recognized day (Thursday, November 26) to thank God for the blessings granted the young republic.

Several subsequent Presidents (Jefferson being a conspicuous exception) continued that pattern, although different days and times of year were involved. The practice then became inconsistent, with states taking the lead.

As the nation lurched toward Civil War, Sara Josepha Hale, the editor of the popular magazine Godey’s Lady’s Book –and the author of an 1823 novel that featured a thanksgiving dinner - campaigned for Thanksgiving’s reinstitution as a national holiday. In response, President Lincoln designated Thursday, November 26, 1863, as such a day. Again, the focus was on to God. Pragmatically, it was a claim for national unity during a period of fierce division.

Lincoln’s precedent – effectively, naming the fourth Thursday in November – became the model for present times. Franklin Roosevelt did alter that pattern during the years 1939-1941, primarily to extend the Christmas shopping season. However, there was much opposition to “Franksgiving,” and in late 1941 Roosevelt signed a congressional resolution making the fourth Thursday as the official holiday.

Have the meanings of Thanksgiving shifted through the centuries? The earliest ceremonies focused on gratitude to God. They gathered community members for a feast. They emphasized that a time of great trial had come and gone. The calendar dates of the events were unimportant.

After Lincoln’s initial proclamation (which linked Thanksgiving to the stresses of war), the national custom became date-set and thus disconnected from any specific tests or trials. In the fashion of an officially sanctioned custom, local communities across the country were encouraged to do the event in their own ways. Parades, festivities, and football games were associated with the extended weekend of the holiday. The specifically religious focus of the holiday softened. Moreover, and as Roosevelt’s moving of the date made clear, there was increasing recognition that this was now the start of the Christmas shopping season,

It would perhaps be unrealistic to expect that a commercialized society like ours should not commercialize its holidays. Time off means time to shop. A day at home is an occasion to watch television and visit websites, all framed by commercial messaging. Go a large sporting event – or just watch one on TV – and sense the degree to which our enjoyments are “sponsored.” We find comfort in the companionship of successful products, or brand names. Their sole ambition is to please us; their possession proclaims that we have “made it.”

Again, who can blame us for seeking our pleasure-dose, for aspiring to be gratified? We want to center our thoughts on the wonderful meal before us. We treasure the support of the tablemates who make us feel good about ourselves. We hope that our favorite will be on TV – and that they will win. What feels better than a soothing drink and a warm fire?

Whatever the legitimacy of these satisfactions – and who can deny them? – we should remember that Thanksgiving is intended to turn our thoughts in the opposite direction. It is an occasion to thank those who make our lives – at all their moments - possible. Some of that thanks goes rightly to our families, however checkered our with them may be. Remember our good , the ones who stand by us in all circumstances. But beyond those carefully maintained circles others should be noted. Community members, once such an important part of people’s existence, continue to shape the local worlds in which we operate. Co-workers; church, team, and club members; fellow enthusiasts of our hobbies and causes all contribute to our sense of stability and purpose. Be clear that we also find support from people we do not know well – who build, repair, and otherwise service our existence. There are the unseen and unappreciated millions who contribute to our country and ensure its continuity. Beyond that, let those who have some awareness of the sacred foundations of our modest lives express that gratitude as well.

In short, the purpose of holidays (and Thanksgiving is just one of these) is to acknowledge indebtedness to others. Do not confuse gratification — the feeling of the full belly, warm fire, or comforting pat on the back – with that sense of willing obligation. We live as we do because others have made that existence possible. Let other times be devoted to self-encouragement, even self-love. At holidays, we thank those who have widened our realms of possibility.

====== 137 ========

HOW TO STOP FIGHTING WITH YOUR SPOUSE

Years back I saw a high powered, professional couple in San Francisco who went at each other’s throats, verbally speaking, twenty-four seven. Everything turned into an epic battle—whether the issue was eating meals, having , planning vacations, spending and saving money, decorating the house, rearing kids, or dealing with in-laws and ex-spouses. When they fought, they would revisiting one old hurt after another, and never resolving anything.

Both claimed they were powerless to control their tempers. Then, a distinguished British professor came to stay with them as their houseguest for several months, living in a guest room adjacent to their bedroom. “During that time, we never raised our voices,” the wife told me. “We were pretty courteous with each other. Pride, I guess.” They both agreed it was the best several months of their .

I wish I had a distinguished British houseguest to loan out to all my readers and clients. But I don’t. You'll just have to believe me when I tell you that you are capable of adjusting your behavior. It’s all about and following a couple of rules.

Where to start? The first rule is to make rules for how you as a couple will treat each other—rules you are responsible for following even in the heat of the moment. Like the couple I just described we often act as if the intensity of our gives us license to say or do anything, because, after all, we’re way to furious to be able to stop what’s coming out of our mouth! .

Of course we can stop ourselves and behave better--that is if we have a genuine intention to have a better marriage. If you or your partner can’t keep your anger from getting out of control, it’s important to get professional help.

Begin by sitting down with your partner and coming up with a few rules of your own. These might be, for example, “No yelling or name calling,“ “No bringing up past grievances during a fight” and “No bringing up problems at bedtime.” Many couples find it helpful to keep a written copy of the rules in a place where both will see it daily.

The second rule is to take the responsibility to change first, and make a sincere effort to keep fighting and negativity from escalating. Instead of waiting for your partner to do the right thing, take the initiative to add a note of or calm into a downward-spiraling conflict, or to postpone the exchange to a future time.

It doesn’t matter whether you use humor, or touch, or a simple refusal to participate in a non-productive exchange by saying something like, “If you want me to listen, get out of your debate posture!” The efforts you make to change the tone (or volume) of an increasingly nasty exchange can, over time, save and strengthen your marriage.

Of course, we want our partner to be the one to de-escalate and apologize first, especially if we’re convinced that he “started it” and is the one to blame. We lose sight of the fact that true victory lies in stopping the fight, and then making your point at a calmer time.

Don’t continue to participate in downward spiraling fights that go nowhere and threaten the foundation of and respect on which a good marriage is based. Happy couples are not couples that don’t fight. Rather they’re couples that fight fair, and take responsibility for their own words and actions, no matter how furious they may feel inside. If your motor is running for change, heres a book to help you to use your anger wisely and well.

====== 138 ========

DONALD TRUMP, NOT MELANIA, IS THE MOST BULLIED PERSON

Source: TMZ/Tyler Shields/Fair Use

Melania has failed to earn the 's sympathy for her recent declaration that she is the world’s most bullied person. And rightfully so. She is definitely not the most bullied person. That dubious distinction goes to her husband.

Melania may have been correct, though, had she complained of being the most bullied woman.

How do we determine who is the most bullied person? One way is by examining how much they are insulted, ridiculed and attacked in the news and entertainment media. There’s no contest. President Trump holds the number one place hands down.

Why our President is the most bullied person

There is a simple reason President Trump is the most bullied person in the world: the more powerful and famous you are, the more people are going to want to criticize, ridicule, attack, hate, and even destroy you.

The media and the general public don’t care about the flaws of the average John or Jane Doe. It is the rich, famous and powerful who are on the radar of the media, constantly on the lookout for the titillating information we crave to spice up our mundane, dreary existence.

With the possible exception of despotic dictatorships, the most bullied person in any country is its . In the US, it’s always been our President, even the most popular of them. And since the US is still considered the world’s leading power, the US President is the most bullied individual on the planet.

This is not to say that the President is only a target of . The President is also the nation’s most respected and supported person. But that does not negate the fact that he/she is the most bullied. There may be other famous people who temporarily move into the Number One position when they become the focus of worldwide negative media (think Harvey Weinstein). But as soon as the novelty wears away, the President reclaims the lead.

And if the President is a married man, the most bullied woman is likely to be his wife, the First Lady, especially if she assumes a public role, as many have done, including Melania. The media will examine her through a microscopic lens, searching for any imperfection or blunder to publicize in order to enhance their own ratings.

There are exceptions to the First Lady being the most bullied woman. Other women who hold top positions of power may be contenders, such as Hillary Clinton, especially during election season. But generally it is the First Lady that holds the position of the most bullied woman during the years of her reign. And this is especially true for Melania because of her association with Donald, commonly referred to as our Bully-in-Chief.

The Obamas were also the most-bullied

The Obamas were also the most bullied people when they occupied the White House. Barack was a recipient not only of praise; he was constantly despised and attacked by a sizable portion of Americans. And so was Barack’s wife. As reported in the New York Daily News:

During her eight years as First Lady, Michelle Obama withstood an onslaught of personal attacks and racist insults, with her critics seizing on her skin color and physical features – and repeatedly comparing her to a monkey in a bid to diminish her and tear her down.

The bullying of Melania

We feel sorry for children whose clothing is made fun of in school. Well, how about Melania Trump, whose wardrobe is a regular target of media ridicule. Her clothing was ridiculed only a few days ago: “Twitter goes after Melania Trump's unusual ensemble at the 2018 White House turkey pardoning.”

You may recall the worldwide attacks she suffered because of a coat she wore bearing the imprint, “I don’t really care, do you?”

But perhaps the most scathing attack on her wardrobe – or lack of one – was perpetrated a week ago by Bette Middler (I happened to find it funny, though Middler got mostly flack for her joke), who referred to FLOTUS (First Lady Of The US) as FLOTITS in a Tweet, The dry cleaning bill for the upholstery on Air Force One must be insane.#FLOTITS

Imagine – you have achieved the coveted status of First Lady of the United States, a position that should make you the object of veneration. Then someone posts an almost-nude picture of you from your previous as a model, accompanied by a vulgar caption, and it goes viral. This has produced an unprecedented situation: it is the first time in history that we can all see what our First Lady looks (looked?) like naked.

But the most serious barrage of bullying Melania has been subjected to is over the mission she has taken upon herself as First Lady: to combat bullying among children. She calls her campaign, Be Best, urging children to treat each other well. The media has had a field day with this, lampooning her as a hypocrite because she’s married to our Bully-In-Chief. How ironic to be bullied for taking up the anti-bully cause!

President Trump may be rightfully attacked for his public bullying behavior, unbecoming of a person in his exalted position. He has even been accused of causing an escalation of bullying among children: Donald Trump Has Unleashed a New Wave of Bullying in Schools. A highly publicized recent scientific study supports this contention.

Yes, indeed, our President fits the image of a classic bully. So it can certainly seem preposterously hypocritical for his wife to be taking up the anti-bully cause.

Our own hypocrisy

But there is something we tend to forget when we ridicule the Trumps. Bullying did not start with Donald and it won’t end with him. The bullies are not “them.” They are “us.”

Bullying is in our . As much as we attack the President for engaging in bullying, we enjoy being perpetrators and spectators of bullying as well, and we don’t want to stop. We enjoy it too much. The Trump presidency has been the best thing ever to happen to Saturday Night Live. Comedians’ careers have had new life breathed into them thanks to Trump. Trump has provided reporters, bloggers, and even psychologists with a steady stream of material, and the rest of us eagerly partake of their offerings. They give us something exciting to talk about at the water cooler, in the bar, on social media, and at our dinner tables.

No, the Trump presidency is not a cause of our bullying but a mirror of it. We are highly attuned when he bullies others but conveniently oblivious when we do it to him. And we do it to him much more than he does it to us. Jesus popularized the idea that we are adept at "seeing the speck in others’ eyes while failing to see the plank in our own." Does anything Donald has said about anyone rival the malevolence of Kathy Griffin’s appearance with a bloody replica of Trump’s severed head?

In fact, are not the things we routinely say about Trump far worse than what he says about us? Sure they are. It’s because we live in a democracy, and Trump knows that if he offends us too much we will vote him out of office. However, thanks to Freedom of Speech we can insult him all we want and, unless we work for him, there’s little he can do about it. While Kathy Griffin would have literally lost her head had she pulled such a stunt in a dictatorship, she is now enjoying renewed success as a result of Trump's attempt to ruin her career.

We may justify bullying the rich, powerful and famous by rationalizing that they deserve it, or that it is the price one pays for celebrity status. But it is easy to forget that celebrities are also human beings with feelings, just like the rest of us. While on the line at the grocery store, our gaze may be drawn to the humiliating stories and photos of celebrities that grace the covers of magazines. But do the celebrities enjoy the way they are depicted? Do they deserve to be publicly disgraced? Do we compassionately share their pain, or do we revel in the pleasure of schadenfraude?

If we are to learn anything about bullying from the Trump Presidency, it’s that the bullies are not “them.” They are “us.” As long as we enjoy the bullying of Donald, Melania, and others in positions of power, we cannot expect Trump to stop engaging in bullying, either. We may protest that he started, but doing it back makes us no better.

====== 139 ========

11 WAYS TO COPE WITH ANXIETY WHEN YOU’RE BUSY

Source: rawpixel for Unsplash

Finding ways to cope with is as much a matter of perspective as strategy. Anxiety in and of itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, and in fact can be a help, especially when we are busy. A powerful source of information and energy, anxiety can walk a fine line between motivating and overwhelming depending on how we choose to view it.

For those who live with anxiety on a more-than-occasional basis, choices tend to vacillate between giving into it or learning to live with it. “Perspective” can seem like a leisure activity in our fast-paced, information-packed world, rather than a line-item on a competent person’s calendar.

And yet, without perspective, there really is no competence. Information overload and the constant state of alert cause anxiety to fall off the fence and into the proverbial briar patch of overwhelm.

Learning ways to cope with anxiety when its optimization is still possible is far different than operating a rescue mission after it has all but crippled you. And when you’re busy (And who doesn’t feel “too busy”?), it is especially important to have some practiced methods of anxiety on-hand.

can be a tricky player. Sometimes it shows up as a factor beyond your control, forcing the hand of change and adaptation. Without it, there would be no growth, no strengthening, no evolution. And that is as true for the planet and its species as it is for the individual.

At the other end of the spectrum, stress can be a reflection of your mental and emotional responses to stimuli. Cognitively you may suspect or even know that the events triggering your anxiety in a given situation are actually “neutral,” and it is only your responses to them that are not. Frustrating as those times are (and we all have them), those are actually the “stressful moments” most imbued with opportunity.

Regardless of the origin of your anxiety, a stress response with a permanent green light isn't helpful. Chronic non-stop stress can overwhelm the nervous system and take its toll, both physically and emotionally.

You can, however, make choices and take actions to mitigate that stress response. There are ways to cope with anxiety so that you come out on the winning end and reap the benefits of anxiety as a resource.

Here are 11 strategies to try, especially when you’re busy:

1. Relaxation techniques for creeping-past-moderate anxiety.



By knowing how you instinctively respond to stress, you can best choose a course of action that either utilizes the stress or helps to quiet it. Do you get worked up? Retreat? Feel energized? Paralyzed? By knowing your unique tendencies, you can be in charge of your anxiety, not the other way around.



Moderate anxiety is where optimization lies. It’s where you will experience the “nudge” to get things done, push a little harder, risk going outside your comfort zone. It’s the “chatter” range of anxiety that keeps you accountable to the things that are important to you.



When anxiety starts “yelling” at you, however, the internal experience is literally like being yelled at. Your mind goes into overwhelm, or even shuts down as a defense mechanism.



Think of the difference between a that hits your system as “full dose” vs. “extended release.” Keeping anxiety at a “chatter” level will keep you comfortably on your toes and in sync with the it fuels.



On those occasions when the volume of your anxiety starts ramping up, it helps to have some techniques to bring your body and mind back into equilibrium. You may just need to dial back on the volume, or you may need to “reset” and start fresh after a break. The key is to recognize when your anxiety is starting to take control of you, and intervene with a relaxation technique that works for you.



Examples of relaxation techniques include:

• deep breathing

•

• body-scan meditation

•

• yoga and Tai Chi



2. Uni-task vs. multi-task.



We are all conditioned to believe that we must consistently do a gazillion things at once in order to keep up with the Joneses, let alone to succeed. But constant multitasking actually causes the to work less efficiently.



Learning to “uni-task” is at the heart of mindfulness meditation and is a powerful tool in helping to establish priorities while letting non-essentials fall away. Put down your phone and be with your child. Get out of the office and have a “walking meeting” with your co-worker. Get comfortable giving your to one thing at a time.



3. Spread the .



Direct your anxiety into helping someone else. It’s amazing how the proclivity for worrying dissipates when you are selflessly serving someone else’s needs. And it’s no secret that you will benefit, as well.



4. Exercise.



Even gentle exercise like walking or yoga can have a profound effect. The endorphins released with gentle exercise will keep you energized and focused without the uncomfortable anxiety effects.



5. Talk it out.



Having someone to talk with when anxiety starts to get ahead of you can help slow its progress and steer you back toward its productive benefits. A friend, counselor, or support group can help you keep perspective. And infusing a little into the conversation is great medicine.



6. Turn off to tune out.



Turn off the TV and say “night-night” to your phone at least an hour before bedtime. The last thing an anxious mind needs when trying to wind down is a barrage of hostile headlines and social notifications.



The -assaulting effects of your screen’s blue light frequency can also wreak havoc with your ability to drift off. Because it mimics the blue light of dawn, it can sabotage your sleep ritual by “waking you up.”



There are plenty of low-tech ways to relax before bed. Try a book with actual pages and/or a diffuser with calming essential oils. Or download a filter to your computer to change the light frequency.



7. Eat well.



How you eat affects how you feel, both physically and emotionally.



The common-sense guidelines for keeping your body healthy also pertain to keeping your brain healthy. Watch the caffeine, avoid fried and high-sugar foods, and eat oil-rich fish and plenty of vegetables. Keeping your blood-sugar levels on an even keel is one of the simplest ways to cope with anxiety while fostering a healthy all-around life.



8. Take action in spite of .



Instead of allowing yourself time to brood over all the possible outcomes of your choices, take action. Get into the game. Take baby steps if that is all you can do. But stand up to the fear and make adjustments once you are in motion. You’ll find that most of that catastrophizing was for naught.

9. Tell yourself you can handle this, because you are handling it.



When doubt creeps in, pull out a mantra that works for you -- something like, “I can handle this, and everything is going to be OK.”



While the anxietythat you are feeling is likely a signal for needed growth, there is no 911 for you to accomplish it all right now. You are handling the demands of this moment, and you willhandle the demands that come after. One breath, one moment, one task at a time.



By recognizing that you are managing -- even if not so gracefully -- you can also shed a common secondary anxiety that comes along with stress: “I can’t handle this.” You may not wantto handle it, but you can.



10. Be strategic in placing your expectations.



In the spirit of making stress as low as possible, strive to limit high expectations. Taking a moment to ask yourself, “Do I have control over this? And if so, how much?” can do wonders to position you advantageously and prevent the deflation that comes from having high hopes dashed.



Your hopes and are precious commodities. Be protective of them, and careful not to put them at unnecessary risk. Look to focus on realistic , informed by what is actually happening. Notice where you feel traction, and look to build expectations from there.



However, even when you’re keeping your expectations in check, disappointments will still happen. And, no matter how small they are, they can still hurt – because you care.



Your caring is a vital part of you. It’s OK to be sad for a short while when you feel disappointed before moving forward again. The important thing is that you are willing to keep moving so that you don’t get stuck in any feelings of disappointment along the way to pursuing your hopes and dreams.



11. Identify how you are overextending and pull back.



When stress rears its head, most of us stretch to meet its demands. This is how we grow and get stronger. But when we stretch too much and avoid setting limits, especially at work, we risk a diminishing return on investment. Perfectionism can lure us out of balance, as well.



For many of us, saying “no” can be tough. How can you limit someof your overextending? Where can you claim more time, more space for you? How, and to whom, can you say “no” or “not now” with consequences you can live with?



It is too tempting to say “no” and “not now” to our own needs in order to cope; but in the long run, this is a recipe for . While flexibility might be admirable, it can be an impediment to holding onto balance. Flexibility still needs to suit your own needs to be sustainable.

Anxiety has the ability to increase energy, streamline mental focus and boost productivity. Optimizing it relies on you being able to recognize its symptoms and keep a positive perspective, then using those symptoms to your advantage as much as possible. By having reliable ways to cope with anxiety, you can embrace it as a colleague that is accompanying you on your journey for your highest good.

====== 140 ========

EVIDENCE THAT DREAMS HELP US LEARN

One of the most interesting lines of research in dream psychology these days are the so-called “dream incorporation” studies. Incorporation of novel learned material into dream content significantly predicts success at permanent retention or learning that novel content (Fiss et al., 1977; De Konnick et al., 1990; Stickgold et al., 2000; Fosse, Fosse, Hobson, & Stickgold, 2003; Wamsley, Perry, et al., 2010; Wamsley, Tucker, et al., 2010; Wamsley et al., 2012; Schoch et al., 2018; Wamsley and Stickgold, 2018). If you dream about something you studied that day you are more likely to retain that information the next day. Improved performance on learning novel materials is significantly associated with the extent of dream incorporation—the greater the number of elements of the learned materials incorporated into , the stronger the acquisition of those novel materials in subsequent daytime performance tests. For example, De Koninck et al., 1990 found that second language acquisition scores were predicted by a higher frequency of dreams that incorporated elements (words, phrases etc) of the second language into dream content. Wamsley et al. (2012) demonstrated that learning to master a virtual maze navigation task was significantly associated with dream incorporation of elements of the maze. Greater incorporation predicted greater mastery. Learning-related dream incorporation into REM dreams is strongest on the night after and from 5–7 nights after learning, reflecting “day residue” and “dream-lag” effects, respectively (Nielsen et al., 2004; van Rijn et al., 2015).

The neurobiologic basis of these dream incorporation effects likely involves sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation processes. A large number of studies have now demonstrated differential performance improvements (e.g., from training to retest) on a large variety of tasks over an intervening period of sleep vs control periods of wakefulness. Human neuroimaging studies incorporating sleep dependent memory paradigms suggest that after new learning, there is physiological reactivation of brain areas recruited during learning (Peigneux et al., 2003, 2006; Oudiette and Paller, 2013; Oudiette et al., 2013; Fogel et al., 2017). Single cell recordings in animal studies have shown that during sleep there is a physiological replaying of the representation formed during waking learning (e.g. exploration of a maze). There is some evidence that this replay of neural representations of learned materials occurs in humans as well and is reflected in the content of our dreams (Stickgold et al., 2000; Wamsley et al., 2010; Kusse et al., 2012; Wamsley, 2014; 2018). “Targeted memory reactivation” refers to the use of cueing techniques to facilitate reactivation and replay of neural representations or during sleep to promote later waking recall of those memories (e.g., Cellini and Capuozzon, 2018, for review). For example, playing selected words or sounds during sleep that were previously paired with to-be-learned words during a learning phase before sleep results in better recall of the word-pairs post-sleep. Presentation of cues during sleep that had been previously associated with a stimulus during wake results in better recall of that stimulus during subsequent waking recall tests. These techniques have been used to improve memory performance in healthy people and in patient populations. By re-exposing subjects to odors, words, or tones (i.e., cues) associated with newly learnt neutral or emotional memories, emotional memories were reactivated and more readily recalled later. It should be possible to use targeted reactivation techniques to reinforce dream images of previously studied material. Then we would be harnessing the power of dreams in a whole new way.

====== 141 ========

WAS THE UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? LAST OF 4 PARTS

I've been exploring the so-called anthropic principle, the notion that perhaps the universe was somehow made with us in mind (suggested, according to its supporters, by the claim that if any of a large number of physical constants were just a smidgeon different, we wouldn't exist). If you'd like to catch up on this scientific-philosophical-theological and altogether skeptical journey, you can find versions one, two and three, in chronological order.

It seems likely that life exists elsewhere in the universe, if only because it has become clear that there is a huge number of potentially life-friendly planets along with other potential happy havens out there. And of course, if there is - and if the universe really was, somehow and by Someone, "made" - it's always possible that it was made for them: three-headed slimy slobbus beasts, or perhaps hardened chunks of metabolizing meteorite masses ... or whatever.

For extraterrestrial life to exist, it nonetheless seems likely (although by no means certain) that it would have to reside on one or more exoplanets, asteroids or perhaps a comet, rather than within a star or free-floating in open space. Moreover, such exoplanets would have to be associated with stars that, for example, don’t emit massive amounts of X-rays or other forms of radiation. But of course, this presumes that “life” would be consistent with “life as we know it.” Maybe there are critters out there who cheerfully bathe in hefty levels of what to terrestrial biologists are lethal amounts of energy, or get by and even thrive on not enough energy to sustain a perseverating entity that would qualify – to us - as “alive.” Most likely, I suspect, there aren’t.

Just a bit closer to established reality, quantum mechanics offers another potential solution to the anthropic conundrum, one that seems if anything weirder than the multiverse hypothesis. According to theory - the same theory that gives rise to, among other things, the very real computer on which this book has been written - matter at its most fundamental level is made up of probabilistic wave functions, which only transition to “reality” when a conscious observer intervenes to measure or perceive them. In the famous “double slit experiment,” light is revealed to be either a particle or a wave only after it is measured as one or the other. Prior to this, photons do not, in a sense, exist as clear-cut entities; afterward, they do.

Based on these and other findings, physicist John Wheeler, one of the towering pioneers of quantum mechanics, who coined the term “black hole,” (and who numbered Nobel laureate Richard Feynman among his students) suggested a “participatory anthropic principle,” whereby – believe it or not – the universe had to include conscious beings in order for it to exist. Personally, I don’t believe it.

I do, however, believe in evolution, which leads – by a stretch no more bizarre than Wheeler’s – to the suggestion that maybe it shouldn’t be surprising that we live in a universe suitable for life, something that has happened not because the universe has been fine-tuned for us or has somehow been “made real” by us, but because we are fine-attuned to it because of natural selection. Just as the physical qualities of air have selected for the structure of bird wings, and the anatomy of fish speaks eloquently about the of water, maybe the nature of the physical universe has in the most general sense, selected for life, and thus, for us.

There is also another, more peculiar way of incorporating natural selection into the anthropic quest. What if natural selection occurs at the level of galaxies, or even universes, such that those offering the potential for life are more likely to replicate themselves? If so, then compared to life-denying galaxies, life-friendly ones might conceivably have produced more copies of themselves, providing greater opportunities for life forms such as ourselves. Aside from the rampant unlikelihood of this “explanation,” it remains unclear how or why such pro-life galaxies would be favored over their more barren alternatives.

Nonetheless, physicist Lee Smolin has pursued the notion of “cosmological natural selection,” whereby perhaps not just galaxies but entire universes replicate themselves, courtesy of black holes.[i] If so, then what sort of universes would be favored – “selected for,” as biologists would put it? Easy: those that employ physical laws and constants that are “more fit,” i.e., that lend themselves to being reproduced. This conveniently explains (if explanation is the correct word) why our universe contains black holes (it’s how they replicate). It also leads to the supposition that perhaps intelligent beings can contribute to the selective advantage of their particular universe, via the production of black holes, and who-knows-what-else.

Another possibility, no less weird, was broached by Carl Sagan in his 1985 novel, Contact. In it, the heroine is advised by an extraterrestrial to study transcendental numbers - numbers that are not algebraic – of which the best known example is pi. She computes one such number out to 1020 places, at which point she detects a message embedded in this number.

Since such numerology is fundamental to mathematics itself and is thus, in a sense, a property of the basic fabric of the universe, the implication is that the cosmos itself is somehow a product of intelligence, since the message is clearly an artificial one and not the result of random noise. Or maybe the universe itself is “alive,” and the various physical and mathematical constants are part of its metabolism. Such speculation is great fun, but please bear in mind that it is science fiction, not science!

It should be clear at this point that the anthropic argument readily devolves into speculative and even theology. Indeed, it is reminiscent of the “god of the gaps” perspective, in which god is posited whenever science hasn’t (yet) provided an answer. Calling upon god specifically when there is a gap in our scientific may be tempting, but it is not even popular among theologians, because as science grows, the gaps – and thus, god – shrinks. It remains to be seen whether the anthropic principle, in whatever form, succeeds in expanding our sense of ourselves beyond that illuminated by science. I wouldn’t bet on it.

And yet, despite what we has been called Copernican Mediocrity – to which I would add Darwinian Mediocrity - just because the universe is unlikely to be what it is simply for our benefit, this need not, and should not, give rise to an alternative, “misanthropic principle.” Regardless of how special we are, or aren’t, wouldn’t we be well-advised to treat everyone (including the other life forms with which we share this planet), as the precious beings we like to imagine us all to be?

[i] L. Smolin. 1999. The Life of the Cosmos. New York: Oxford University Press

====== 142 ========

MANAGING THE EXPERIENCE OF SETBACKS AT WORK

Work deadlines are a fact of life for many individuals, and failure to meet deadlines can result in serious consequences. Unfortunately, set-backs are also common at work. Specifically, sometimes the progress workers are able to make toward their goals is inhibited by factors outside their control. For instance, a computer crash has the potential to undo a day’s worth of work. When deadlines must be met, such set-backs can be quite upsetting, and potentially demotivating.

However, to date relatively little research has considered the effects of set-backs on worker emotions and . More so, virtually no efforts have been made to differentiate types of set-backs. To this end, my co-authors Abigail Scholer, Jeffrey Hughes, and I designed two experiments to address this issue. Specifically, we identified two types of set-backs:

Distance Set-backs are characterized by a loss of progress. As an example, consider an employee working on a report due at the end of the day. A computer crash that causes some or all of the report to be deleted is a distance set-back.

Velocity Set-backs are characterized by a decrease in the rate of progress that can be made in the future. No progress is lost, yet all future progress is made more slowly compared to before the set-back occurred. For instance, a virus that causes a computer to slow down (thereby slowing future progress) is a velocity set-back.

We predicted that both types of set-backs would cause individuals to feel increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm while performing work tasks. However, we also predicted that whereas the effects of a distance set-back would eventually fade over time, the effects of a velocity set-back would persist.

Participants were randomly assigned to experience either a distance set-back or a velocity set-back while they completed a simulated work task. Halfway through the experiment participants were told their was a “computer glitch.” Participants in the distance condition were told this glitch caused some of the work they had already completed to be lost, and thus, this work would need to be redone. Conversely, participants in the velocity condition were told the glitch caused delays in the computer program, resulting in slower progress from that point onward. Importantly, the distance and velocity set-backs were designed to be functionally equivalent in terms of the likelihood of ultimately completing the task within the deadline. In other words, all participants had an equal chance to meet the deadline, regardless of condition. Participants who completed the task within the deadline were given a small cash reward.

As expected, participants had relatively negative initial reactions to both types of set-backs. Specifically, participants in both conditions reported increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm. Yet these reactions were relatively short-lived for participants who experienced a distance set-back; frustration and enthusiasm returned to baseline levels by the end of the experiment. On the other had, the increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm persisted over time among participants who experienced the velocity set-back. Although the set-backs were equivalent in terms of their effect on ultimately completing the task within the deadline, negative reactions to velocity set-backs were far more persistent compared to the reactions to the distance set-back. Downstream, frustration and enthusiasm predicted important motivational outcomes, including goal commitment, effort, and task performance.

These results highlight the importance of the effects that set-back can have on worker emotions and motivation. Managers should be cognizant of the fact that workers are likely to be upset following set-backs, and this may detract from motivation and performance moving forward. This may be particularly true following velocity set-backs. However, managers may be able to ameliorate the these deleterious effects by helping employees update their expectations regarding a reasonable rate of progress. In other words, following a velocity set-back managers may be to communicate to their subordinates that they understand the source of the slowed progress. Doing so may help employees reappraise the situation, form new internal guidelines for reasonable rates of progress, and remain committed to completing the task on time.

The full manuscript can be downloaded here.

====== 143 ========

BETWEEN HERE AND MY LAST STOP: MEMOIRS AND ASSISTED MAGIC

Source: Wikimedia

It was a fall about the time of the Women’s March 2016 that sidelined me and my pink pussy hat. I knew then that I had just participated in my last protest demonstration. Although a one-time believer is the "stay-at-home" movement -- research on , , and highlights from the Gerontological Society of America meetings, which I have been following for some years now, compelled me to reconsider. The 18th Annual Meeting was held in Boston this month. With research from diverse areas, they report on new scientific research and ways to promote healthy aging. Gerontological Society of America.

It came at a time, when I was feeling challenged and welcomed their ideas and energy. Despite my calling "aging in place the fountain of youth" in an earlier article, after my pussy hat fall my choices were limited: Moving in with children or into assisted living — for which I considered myself to be too young. Nonetheless, after reading once again Being Mortal by Atul Gawande, M.D., I began counting my blessings, and made a choice.

Gawande, a New Yorker staff writer, and long-time physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, points out that we can enjoy creative moments filled with meaning and vitality even in our later years.

As many reviewers have pointed out, Gawande's mission appears to be allowing people to live a meaningful life and shape the story of their own lives. While assisted living is sometimes considered a home, indeed, for people in their 60s, 70s, and older, it can be a place to begin a new adventure. If psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung born in 1875, folded up into full retirement, he may not have written one of his classic works, , , Reflections in 1962.

A book may not be in our future, but assisted living can become a starting point for a new life experience. Former colleagues almost jealously compare my living choice to The MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire. There writers and artists are nurtured while oftentimes completing a work in progress.

A Family Memoir

Falling as I did sidelined me, but also set in motion a plan to collect all published columns about my grandparents and put them into a book for my grandchildren. And indeed, with a black paper photo scrapbook, made by one of my sisters, and time to write uninterrupted, Italian Kisses: My Grandmother's , is now with Bordighera Press in New York City.

For people interested in memoirs, there is new and interesting research from the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf. As reported in Behaviour Research and and and Behavioral Practice, even unhappy memories can be transformed by editing and rescripting them: How to Treasure Happy Memories and Edit the Sad Ones (with references.)

An Assignment

Before our last stop, many of us have a myriad of , wishes and dreams, or a bucket list. Most people do not like to think about the last stop. However, a graduate school assignment helped us to come face-to-face with our mortality. We were tasked with writing our own obituary. It was a way to look at our goals and determine how we wished to be remembered. Write one today and then ask yourself: "Is this what I'd like my life story to say?" And if it is not, then ask, "What is missing? What did I hope to accomplish?"

One graduate school colleague said she wanted to be a physician. Someone chided her saying, "You'll be 50 by the time you become a resident." She thought for a minute and answered, "I'll be 50 anyway." And she enrolled in medical school.

Copyright 2018 Rita Watson

====== 144 ========

THE PROFOUND PLEASURE OF PUTTERING

Source: Pippalou/Morguefile

After an exceedingly long, exceedingly busy couple of years—during which any time I wasn’t actively doing something, I was worrying about things I should be doing—I woke up one morning with all the important tasks behind me and nothing pressing ahead of me. Nothing to do, nowhere to go, and no reason to worry about it.

My god, what a glorious feeling.

I got out of bed, put on comfortable clothes, may or may not have brushed my hair, and threw myself body and soul into puttering.

I wonder: Do know the deep, joyous satisfaction of puttering around the house? Or is a day without other people, for them, a day wasted?

Puttering around the house entails wandering from room to room, doing those little things you’ve meant to do eventually (changing light bulbs, throwing away old eye shadows, paging through catalogs that have stacked up on the counter…). You let your wander with your body, shedding superfluous worries with the abandon of a cat dropping hair on black pants.

Puttering has no goal unless you count the million little that crop up, to either be accomplished or not. I take profound pleasure in tossing those catalogs in the recycle bin, blowing drifts of leaves off the driveway, organizing my sock drawer. In puttering, I simply follow along wherever my meandering mind takes me--and if I don’t finish something, so what? I’ll finish something else. Have you ever noticed how soothing sweeping the floor can be?

On this day, after some indoor puttering, I strolled to the backyard, where I became suddenly aware of the paving stones that have waited patiently for more than a year to be placed. So I got a shovel and got to work. And in setting my brain free while I did the heavy lifting, I managed to re-envision the patio into something that’s becoming quite pleasing.

And yes, I even moved the bag of mulch that had been laying where I dropped it when I took it out of my car trunk so many months ago--although I did enjoy the running joke it had become. Stays where you put it! the bag boasted. Indeed it did.

I went into the house, then out. In, out. In, out. I did this, and did that, and then I did the other thing. Talked to myself, sang along with the radio, listened to a couple of the podcasts I earnestly downloaded long ago, for when I had time. For a while I just sat silently and stared into space as the frantic chatter in my brain slowed to a gentle mutter and then trailed off.

To an extent, puttering is a gesture of respect from our brains to our physical selves. It’s not about thinking, or reading, or producing. Instead, we take on “mindless tasks” that need only the most minimal participation of the brain We acknowledge our surroundings, consider what makes us comfortable, and tend to those things, however aimlessly.

This is not the same as housekeeping, which is more the drudgery of keeping a house functional. That’s serious, stodgy work. This is the frill on the turkey, taking care of the visual clutter that tends to exacerbate the racket of a busy brain. If we let our brains lead, they drift towards the little disturbances—piles of mail, unfinished projects—so we may handle them. We wash the bedroom curtains. Hang a picture. Make things nice.

When my life gets full, puttering around the house invariably falls off my schedule. On one hand, it seems indulgent. But it’s also not something one ordinarily schedules. Puttering typically occurs spontaneously, in between all the other things one does. It is both an activity, and the absence of activity.

But I realized the other day, as I drifted around the house, that this day of hardcore puttering felt deeply therapeutic. Set it free from all constraints, my brain meandered at its own pace and in its own way, unclenching and creating space through which fresh ideas wafted. It was relaxing, and refreshing, and rejuvenating. Plus I got rid of those catalogs.

====== 145 ========

TIME AND SPACE MAY BE PERCEIVED BY A COMMON BRAIN SYSTEM

Time and space are fundamental dimensions of the universe. Those dimensions are conventionally scaled by distinctly different methods of measurement. We use hourglasses and watches to record the passage of time; we use rulers and gauge blocks to index length. Yet, Albert Einstein’s revolutionary theory of relativity upset this simplistic apple cart by suggesting that time and space are actually inseparable.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

Einstein’s startling suggestion certainly challenges common sense. Nevertheless, research in science and has recently revealed that we use a shared neurobiological mechanism to make psychological judgments of time and space.

In one key piece of behavioral evidence, researchers found that the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length people reported it to be. In a parallel fashion, the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration people reported it to be. This surprising interdependence violates the belief that—at least psychologically—space and time are independent dimensions.

Furthering the unexpected of this finding is the fact that rhesus monkeys responded in the same way as did people when given comparable testing procedures. Clearly, the psychological interdependence of space and time is not uniquely human. Nevertheless, as primates, both monkeys and humans share key neural structures like the cerebral cortex.

Source: Monkeyland, South Africa

In our own research at The University of Iowa, we sought to advance our of the common processing of time and space by attempting to replicate the psychological interdependence of space and time in the pigeon—an animal which, like all birds, does not have a cerebral cortex. Remarkably, pigeons behaved just as did humans and monkeys: the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length pigeons reported it to be and the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration pigeons reported it to be.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

When adaptive behaviors are shared by extremely distant phylogenetic relatives, it is generally assumed that their evolution independently arose in response to common survival demands. Exactly what may have encouraged the common processing of time and space by birds and mammals has yet to be determined. Still, it is clear that the very differently organized brains of birds and mammals exhibit a common functionality: a finding that is turning out to be more common than is conventionally expected.

Indeed, the cognitive prowess of birds is now deemed to be ever closer to that of both human and nonhuman primates. Those avian nervous systems are capable of far greater achievements than the pejorative “bird brain” would ever have suggested.

====== 146 ========

ARE YOU SELFISH OR DO YOU JUST HAVE HEALTHY SELF-INTEREST?

Doris believed that decent, kind and considerate people never put their own needs before those of others, especially when dealing with loved ones. She thought only selfish people who failed to care about the feeling and wishes of others would ever put their own desires first. Unsurprisingly, Doris often felt people took unfair advantage of her and did not reciprocate her selflessness. In fact, most of her family and seemed to believe Doris was a bit of a martyr and derived satisfaction from her self-sacrificial M.O. In reality, however, she often felt resentful but because of and could never bring herself to express her true feelings.



After a brief course of CBT, emphasizing rational reframing and training, Doris reported feeling much better about herself and many of her . What I call the “O2 metaphor” (O2 as in oxygen) seemed to particularly resonate with Doris:



Imagine you’re flying a commercial jet seated between a very young child and a frail, very old adult. All of a sudden the cabin loses pressure. The oxygen masks deploy and drop down in front of everybody. Now, who is the first person you put the oxygen mask on? The helpless child? The struggling senior? No, and no! As every flight attendant will announce during the safety briefing, we are instructed to put on our own mask first before attempting to help anyone else. Because if we don’t, we’ll pass out almost immediately. And then, not only will we have failed help the child and/or the senior, but we now need help ourselves. Yet if we had first taken just a few seconds to secure our own air supply, we then would have been able to attend to the people around us who might need help. Also, by taking care of ourselves first, we can often avoid the predicament of needing assistance ourselves. Thus, often, only by helping ourselves first can we be a position to offer or provide help to others. This is the main difference between healthy self-interest and selfishness.



In essence, selfishness involves satisfying your own needs at the expense of others. Healthy self-interest is simply taking care of yourself but not at the expense of others. Related to this is the unfortunate notion that it is better to give than to receive. Why? This mistaken idea has led many people like Doris to be ungracious about accepting things from others. The irony is that it can be selfish to refuse to let someone to do a kind deed for us because it deprives them of satisfaction. Hence, neither giving or receiving is “better.” It is best to give and to receive.



At the heart of Doris’s lack of assertiveness was an element of rejection and abandonment . Indeed, many people believe that if they say “no,” or put themselves first, it will lead people to dislike them and might even rupture their relationships. But when we realize if someone reacts so dramatically to a simple act of healthy expression, the problem is with them and not with the assertive person. In these cases, it’s often necessary to recalibrate the relationship and keep in mind that the other person has some significant personal and interpersonal challenges.



So, when you’re about to say “yes” when you’d really rather say “no,” think of the O2 metaphor. Also, try not to be held hostage by exaggerated fears of your relationships’ fragility. Any healthy and truly meaningful intimacy ought to easily withstand a an occasional “no” and balanced instances of enlightened self-interest. Finally, allow yourself to receive gifts and accept kind acts from others so that they don’t feel rejected and fail to derive the pleasure of giving.



Remember: Think well, Act Well, Feel well, Be well!

Dear Reader: The advertisements contained in this post do not necessarily reflect my opinions nor are they endorsed by me. — Clifford

Copyright 2018 by Clifford N. Lazarus, Ph.D. This post is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional assistance or personal mental treatment by a qualified clinician.

====== 147 ========

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN LEADERS OVERESTIMATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS?

The very best leaders are self-aware. They know their strengths and limitations. They strive to overcome those limitations and become better leaders. At the same time, it takes self- to be a leader.

What happens when self-awareness takes a backseat to too much leader self-confidence?

Research by Leanne Atwater and colleagues has shown that leaders who overestimate their effectiveness tend to be and have too much belief in their own competence and are unrealistically – believing that they will be more successful than circumstances will allow. In addition, overestimators tend to ignore criticism and thus are unlikely to see their own flaws and they don’t work to overcome their weaknesses.

What about those who underestimate their leadership effectiveness?

Underestimators tend to overemphasize their weaknesses and undervalue their true leadership strengths. This leads to a lack of self-confidence (although some underestimators may work hard to try to compensate for their perceived weaknesses).

How about leaders who are accurate in estimating their leader effectiveness?

These leaders understand their leadership strengths and shortcomings and are better able to employ their skills, and work to develop those that are lacking.

How do researchers measure estimation of leadership effectiveness?

It is done by having both leaders rate themselves and the followers/direct reports of the leader completing the same ratings of leadership effectiveness. The amount of agreement/disagreement leads to determination of leader under and over estimators, and those leaders who have a good of how they are seen by their followers.

The research also shows that leaders who are in agreement with the ratings of their followers have higher potential for promotion and lower risk of experiencing leader derailment. In other words, knowing oneself, and how one is viewed by followers, helps boost a leader’s effectiveness, success, and continued leader development.

Follow me on : http://twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 148 ========

THE SIMPLE GESTURE THAT ENHANCES HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

Source: CC0 Creative Commons

In my twelve-step fellowship, we greet each other with a hug. Whenever I see my daughters, we hug. I’m not talking about a fleeting, drive-by, bro-style pat-on-the-back hug, but rather one that is substantial, sustained, and heartfelt. Hugging another person with intention and feeling is a powerful form of recognition, an unequivocal acknowledgement that he or she matters. It is often an indicator of emotional intimacy that says, “I got you,” even—or perhaps especially—in the face of adversity.

Physiologically, hugging precipitates the release of , often referred to as the “bonding hormone” because it promotes and strengthens existing bonds and , which includes the bond between mothers and their newborn babies. In this way, hugging and other forms of caring touch likely emerged as an evolutionary imperative—facilitating connection to enhance survival. Oxytocin is a chemical of interpersonal connection, not only released through physical closeness with another person but also through other forms of bonding, such as eye contact, smiling, and attentiveness.

In addition to such psychological sustenance, hugging also provides significant benefits, starting with its reducing, calming effects. Recent research demonstrates that oxytocin is associated with decreases in the stress cortisol and norepinephrine, as well as increased levels of the feel-good neurotransmitters and serotonin (the body’s natural ). Moreover, there’s evidence that hugs and the oxytocin release that accompanies them reduce heart rate and blood pressure, increase feelings of well-being, and improve immune system function and pain tolerance.[1]

Physical embrace in the form of hugging is an action with tremendous bang for the buck. Engaging in hugs and other forms of caring touch, such as placing an arm around someone shows kindness; putting a hand on another’s shoulder communicates support. Caring touch has multiple physiological and emotional benefits for both people. It reduces blood pressure, lowers cortisol, and stimulates the release of oxytocin. Touching also releases serotonin, which soothes and regulates mood.

Caring touch is a primary language of . It provides emotional nourishment—awakening and increasing feelings of calmness, trust, and secure attachment between parents and their children. Make time to connect with your children, regardless of how busy you are. Tell them that you love them—often. Too many parents don’t do this or only do it rarely, many assuming “they already know I love them.”

One of the ironies of human nature is that all too frequently, people make an effort to be more overtly kind and considerate to other people (sometimes complete strangers) than to their own families. They may be much harder on those with whom they are closest—partners and children in particular—taking the connection and relationship for granted. This was the case with my own father, and there have been times I succumbed to this phenomenon as well.

For five years during the mid-1990s, I was the clinical director for a hospital-based treatment program that provided medically managed detoxification and rehabilitation for adults. In addition to supervising the program’s social workers and counselors, my role included functioning as a sort of vice-principal, dealing directly with violations of program rules and determining consequences. We worked with an extremely challenged and challenging population, and when patients acted out—which occurred in all manner of ways—they had to meet with me. In response to my usual intentional professional demeanor, with surprising frequency, they would ask me, “Do you ever get angry?” In response, I’d smile and assure them that since is a natural human emotion, everyone gets angry sometimes.

On my return home, I’d tell my kids that the patients at work once again asked if I ever got angry, to which my elder daughter’s reaction was a combination snort-snigger followed by an always incredulous variation on the theme of “If they only knew.” While I took considerable pride in my professional , its incongruity with the liberties of laxity I sometimes took as a parent and partner only inspired self-reproach.

We need to be consciously aware of the tendency to take the people we love and their presence in our lives for granted and treat them less well. With this awareness, we are more likely to treat them with the kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love they deserve.

is a link in the chain that connects the past with the future. How did the way your parents talked to you influence your , your self-talk? Keep in mind that how you treat and talk to your children becomes part of how they treat and talk to themselves.

Every day, you participate in myriad encounters, each of which has an impact on other people, your , and you. The impacts of your actions ripple far beyond what you know or can observe, so with conscious effort, you can build more kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love into your actions throughout the day.

The size of the actions matters not; they all have meaning and value. Everything you do that is positive makes a positive difference somehow, somewhere, and in some way, especially with your children. As expressed so elegantly by psychologist and philosopher William James, “Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference. It does.”

Copyright 2018 Dan Mager, MSW

Author of Roots and Wings: Mindful Parenting in Recovery and Some Assembly Required: A Balanced Approach to Recovery from Addiction and

====== 149 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY UK

The Hungry Consumer

Overzealous consumerism and holiday gift-giving is a double whammy. Today might be dedicated to excessive and aggressive shopping, but it comes one day after we’re supposed to appreciate all that we have. What does that say about us?

====== 150 ========

WHY WE CONSUME SO MUCH

In agricultural societies of the past, farmers were mostly self sufficient. They worked hard but consumed little. Today we consume so much that the oceans are filled with trash. What changed?

Rising Disposable Income

A great deal has happened. To begin with, rising global affluence following the Industrial Revolution put a lot more money in people's wage packets (1). The proportion of pay being spent on non essentials like food and shelter declined, leaving a surplus of “disposable income”.

This had several important consequences. Social mobility took off. Workers began using their disposable income to communicate social success and status.

This could be one reason that the bulk of disposable income is devoted to leisure activities. Of course, such activities are also pleasurable in themselves, from enjoying sunshine in a vacation spot to fine dining, or driving luxury vehicles.

In feudal societies there had been minimal social mobility and a luxurious lifestyle was the exclusive preserve of the landed elite.

This scenario changed profoundly with the rise of the middle classes following the Industrial Revolution. Some scholars argue that the lives of ordinary people in developed countries today are more luxurious in material terms than those of the most sybaritic monarchs of the past (such as Louis 16th of France) given the variety of consumer goods available (2).

The Rise of

Social mobility preceded the steam-engine-based Industrial Revolution. Cloth manufacturers “put out” their orders, or subcontracted them, to cottage weavers. Using tallow candles that shed a bright and steady light, cotters worked night and day to fill their orders and saw a modest increase in their standard of living (3).

Due to rising wages, a person could save to buy a better home, or better furniture, or more elegant clothing. With social mobility, every person was responsible for their own station in life. Keeping up with the Joneses was born.

The period preceding the factory production of cloth is aptly named the “Industrious Revolution (3).” It was accompanied by slow but steady economic growth culminating in the modern era of cheap global shipping and runaway consumption.

When living standards rise, beneficiaries are never really content with where they are. There is always someone else who has a better home, a better car, better furniture, or sends their children to better schools, or spends more on cosmetic surgery.

Aspiring to lead a more luxurious life is a treadmill that keeps consumers in debt and constantly working harder to get where everyone else seems to be. This is a positive climate for businesses.

, Advertising, and Artificial Needs

The desire for more goods and services is enabled by modern communication technologies. This played out following the introduction of television to towns in the US West. The rise of petty thefts that followed was motivated by dissatisfaction of viewers with their standard of living compared to that depicted on the small screen (4). In marketing terms, demand for many consumer goods was created overnight.

The same phenomenon occurs on the Internet where users are exposed to luxurious living by celebrities around the globe. Of course, Internet shopping is the ultimate enabler for luxury goods because they are rarely more than a few clicks away.

The desire for luxurious, and status-signaling, products is a powerful motive for workers. Indeed Thorstein Veblen, an early sociologist, argued that “conspicuous consumption” is the main reason that people with money choose to spend it (5).

The carrots of consumption may well be more potent than the sticks of in boosting work effort. Ordinary consumers today behave rather like the elites of the past with the key difference that elites don't need to work. Even the poorest segment of our society give in to cravings for luxury goods from designer watches, shoes, and sunglasses to electronic devices and cars.

Modern societies are something of a rat where people work hard at consuming during their off time and work even harder during their hours on the job so that they can earn enough to pay their bills. The irony is that although we live like the kings of history in terms of material standard of living, we do not recognize this reality (1, 2).

The flavor of this discontent is captured in the witticism that a rising tide lifts all yachts (rather than all boats). Improvements in living conditions in developed countries are real, substantial, and historically unprecedented, although pessimists cannot accept this and focus upon the unequal distribution of wealth.

Life expectancy of US residents doubled in the 20th century, for example, but this fact is lost today in concern over the fact that rich people live longer.

We would also like their money and avarice is a cruel master. Despite having too much, we are tormented by the desire for more knowing that other people are a lot better off than we are.

====== 151 ========

DO YOU HAVE TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING?

The old green paint on our house was chipped and fading, the color chosen years ago by the former owners. So my husband and decided to get the house painted gray with a white trim. We contacted a painter who brought us two books of paint chips with pages and pages of different shades of gray.

Wandering through what seemed like fifty shades of gray, we experienced what psychologists Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward called “the paradox of choice” (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Overwhelmed by all the options, it took us over a week to make our choice.

Psychologists tell us that being able to choose is a sign of autonomy and well-being (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Americans value freedom of choice as fundamental to our democracy, essential to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of .” We want to be free to explore our options, free to choose where we live and work and what we buy. If choice is good, then it follows that more choice is better. Or is it?

Source: By Huguenau. beer and wine aisle of a supermarket. Public domain on Wikimedia Commons.

Research has revealed that too many choices can paralyze us with indecision. Schwartz and Ward mention a supermarket that offers 285 brands of cookies, 230 soups, and 275 types of cereal. I recall the supermarket a scene in the film “Moscow on Hudson.” After years of waiting in line for coffee in Russia, a young defector played by Robin Williams, enters a New York market. Looking around frantically at all the choices in the coffee aisle and repeating “coffee, coffee, coffee,” he passes out from sensory overload.

How many choices are enough? Too much? In 1954, psychologist George Miller published an article about “the magic number seven, plus or minus two,” arguing that we can only keep 5 to 9 items in our working at a time. More than that and it becomes too much to manage.

Our economy presents us with a dizzying array of options, but, as Schwartz and his colleagues have pointed out, people actually feel worse as their choices increase (Schwartz et al, 2002) And now the Internet offers us an endless succession of posts on social , pop-up advertisements, videos, and links.

What’s the effect of all this? Is our culture offering us greater autonomy or distracting us from the important choices in our lives with a dizzying range of consumer choices?

Research has shown that people who “maximize”—trying to make the best possible choice from a wide range of options—experience greater , , self-doubt, and regret than those who “satisfice,” accepting a result good enough to meet their desired criteria (Schwartz et al, 2002).

So the next time you are faced with what seems like an endless array of options, you might want to consider what you’re really looking for. What are the important criteria that would make you satisfied with this choice?

References

Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. The Psychological Review, 63, 81-97.

Schwartz, B., &Ward, A. (2004). Doing better but feeling worse: The paradox of choice. In P. A. Linley & S. Joseph (Eds.). in Practice (pp. 86-104). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Schwartz, B., Ward, A., Monterosso, J, Lyubomirsky, S., White, K., & Lehman, D. (2002). Maximizing versus satisficing: Happiness is a matter of choice. Journal of and Social Psychology, 83, 1178-1197.

====== 152 ========

IS INSTAGRAM MAKING YOU POOR?

There’s a game I like to play whenever I feel the gut-punch of while scrolling through social . I call it, “How much did that selfie cost?” I play this game to remind myself that many people, including my , are spending WAY TOO MUCH MONEY on things that don’t last, often racking up credit-card debt that will keep them up at night for months, all for the glory of that one fabulous photo.

How much did that selfie cost? Usually, the answer is, “Too much,” but that doesn’t necessarily stop us from feeling a twinge of pain when we look at these posts. In fact, evidence has been mounting for a while that social media may cause or increase 1. Short of logging off completely, how’s a person supposed to deal with the onslaught of social comparisons that we face each time we check in with our friends and family? In this article, I'll talk about why we NEED (yes, need) to compare ourselves, and how we can do it in a healthy way.

Comparisons are inevitable

Some people advocate a lifestyle free of comparisons. Just stop, they say, and you’ll be happier and healthier. That’s a nice sentiment, but not very practical. First of all, even if you cut yourself off from all social media, you would still have the daily reminder of other people’s lives and money through their cars, clothes, houses, etc. Long before social media, the Joneses were the target of envy. Now, we have the Joneses, the Kardashians, and everyone in between, but regardless of how or to whom we are comparing, the very ACT of comparing ourselves with others is an innate human activity, and to suggest that we can just stop is to deny the reality of human .

Back in the 1950’s Leon Festinger wrote a groundbreaking paper on 2 that has since become the foundation of an entire branch of psychology. In this work, he laid out considerable evidence for two ideas.

1. “There exists, in the human organism, a drive to evaluate his opinions and his abilities.”3

Simply put, we want to know how we measure up. We need to have a sense of how well we are living; how successfully we are doing this thing called life. The standards by which we judge ourselves may differ wildly depending on our time, our culture, our age, our tastes, etc. but the need to evaluate our life’s progress by some standard is innate and can’t be removed. It’s natural and can be healthy if done right (more on this later).

2. “To the extent that objective, non-social means are not available, people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison respectively with the opinions and abilities of others.”3

There is no objective standard that defines what it means to live well. I can measure my by objective standards like BMI, cholesterol, blood pressure, and the presence or absence of disease. When it comes to lifestyle, there is no metric that marks the line where someone is considered successful. Rather, we are left to define success for ourselves, and often we use our friends, family, colleagues, and even strangers as the scale by which we measure our progress. This can be a problem when it comes to our financial lives.

Comparisons can be toxic

The problem isn’t that we compare ourselves, it’s WHO we choose as the target for comparison. I recently surveyed a group of people about their financial lives, their financial comparisons, and their emotional well-being. What I found was quite interesting.

We tend to compare up, and that brings us down.

Regardless of how poor or wealthy people were, most of them tended to compare themselves with those they thought were better off4. That's understandable when you are on the bottom of the economic ladder (there’s nowhere to look but up), but even those earning top salaries were more likely to judge themselves against those with more. Maybe we think that by looking at those further up the ladder we’ll be motivated to improve ourselves? That’s possible, but the effect of upward comparisons was fairly toxic, from what I could see.

In every income group, people who reported making frequent, upward comparisons also reported having more debt, lower savings, higher levels, and lower satisfaction with their own situation than people who compared themselves with those less fortunate. When asked about the emotions they experienced in their own financial lives, people who compared upward were experiencing significantly more negative feelings than those who did not.

Source: Source: Morningstar, Inc.

Clearly, comparing up isn’t doing us any favors. This suggests that when we scan Instagram or and judge our own lives by the way they compare to those dream vacation photos and shiny new cars all our friends are enjoying, we may be actively sabotaging our own finances. But if Festinger was right, and social comparisons are inevitable, then how are we supposed to avoid doing damage to our hearts and our wallets?

The Exception to the Rule

In my study, there was a small group that defied the trend. Most people said that they usually compared themselves to a friend, family member, neighbor or colleague. All of these comparison targets followed the same trend: upward comparisons were most common, and they were associated with lower financial well-being.

The exception to the rule was a small group of people who said they compare themselves to a role model or mentor. In this group, regardless of whether the role model was better or worse off, financially, the person making the comparison tended to feel good about their own financial life. Not just good, but compared to the rest of the bunch, they felt great!

I followed this study with an experiment where I asked one group of people to choose a financial role model and answer a few questions about them while another group answered questions about their normal comparison targets. Both groups then answered questions about their financial habits and emotions.

The people who thought about a role model were significantly more confident and felt more in control of their financial lives after the exercise than the people who made their normal comparisons. This suggests that, while we can’t get rid of our need to compare, we might be able to make those comparisons work FOR us and not against us.

How to choose a role model (and not have it backfire)

Research into the effects of role models on and behavior suggests that we need to take care when we choose a role model, or the results can backfire5. Penelope Lockwood is a giant in this area of research, and her work suggests that people need to be careful when choosing a role model. According to the results of her studies, people who choose a role model whose success is far beyond what they themselves believe they can realistically achieve can actually become demoralized rather than energized by the comparison. This is why Warren Buffet is probably not a good financial role model. Unless what you admire and want to emulate is his humility and habit of living below his means, then using him as your comparison target will probably do you more harm than good.

So, RIGHT NOW, think about someone whose financial life or behavior you admire. You don’t need to know them or their finances well. The point is to find someone whose lifestyle you admire (even if you only have a glimpse), and that you think you can realistically achieve for yourself over time. Make sure the goal you are setting is realistic, positive, and practical. Anecdotally, when I have done this exercise with strangers, be they online survey participants, friends, colleagues, or financial advisors, there are two things that people seem to admire most:

1. Contentment.

2. A lack of stress over money.

These characteristics likely go hand in hand.

Once you have someone in mind, ask yourself the following questions:

1. What is it about their financial life or behavior that you admire?

2. What qualities or values do you think have led them to their current situation?

3. Do you have (or can you cultivate) any of those qualities or values?

4. What is ONE small thing you can do RIGHT AWAY to be just a little more like them, financially?

5. Picture yourself doing that one thing, even just once.

Role models can help channel our natural need to compare into an action-oriented energy that helps us to make progress toward a real goal. By redirecting our toxic comparisons to this role model, we can (hopefully) avoid the overspending (or under-saving) that can come from trying to keep up with the expensive selfie habits of the masses.

Conclusion

The next time you come across that gut-punch Instagram post, catch yourself. Take a breath and think about the person you just named above. Remind yourself of the qualities you admire in them, and of the good things that are around the corner for you by following in their footsteps. Maybe, then, that expensive selfie won’t seem quite so admirable in comparison.

====== 153 ========

HOW REFLECTING ON OUR POSSESSIONS CAN CURB IMPULSE BUYING

“Wilful waste makes woeful want.” – Mrs. Gaskell, Wives and Daughters, 1866.

A consistent theme of this blog is discussing ways to shop, buy, and consume prudently, and derive maximum pleasure from these activities. Unfortunately, most of us have far too many possessions to fully enjoy or use. Yet we keep adding to our store of belongings in ways big and small. Instead of increasing enjoyment, our possessions overwhelm us and our total pleasure is reduced.

Source: Row of Shoes by Duong Tran Quoc Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

Take the case of shoes. American men own an average of 11 pairs and American women own 13 pairs. Their shoe collection equates to two and a half weeks of income for the average American. Yet, people use only about three pairs regularly and own several shoes they have never worn.

The twentieth-century aphorism, “Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without,” seems laughably quaint and naïve in the light of such excessive shopping activity. We hardly use up or wear our any of our belongings, and instead of making do or doing without, we keep buying new ones.

Can we turn this ship around, so to speak? In this post, I want to write about an interesting finding from a research paper that I coauthored with two Rice University doctoral students, Jihye Jung and Nivriti Chowdhri which suggests one promising method. In the research, we studied the usefulness of a we call “reflection” to reduce people's shopping urges. It can be used “just in time” – right when an urge to buy something is experienced.

Reflection is about thinking deeply and remembering in detail how you used any one of your possessions recently. In our research, we’ve found it helps if the reflected-upon possession is something functional, like a kitchen implement, a lawn-mower or a wristwatch. Here’s the instruction from one of our studies which included 165 participants:

“In this exercise, your task is to describe your recent experience with a product. Specifically, we would like you to think of any product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 1: Take a minute and think of a product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 2: In a few sentences, please describe this product in detail. Step 3: Now we want you to describe how you used the product on the most recent occasion. In the space provided below, explain WHEN, WHERE, HOW, and HOW LONG you used this product. Please describe your experience with the product in as much detail as possible, and please spend at least TWO MINUTES on this task.”

And here are two examples of our participants’ reflections to give you a better sense of the exercise:

Source: Shoe Wardrobe by Jakob Owens Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

“I have a pair of light Nike running shoes I used this morning. I bought them about a year ago for about $80. The reason I bought them was because my brother has a same pair which I tried on and really liked so I bought my own. I used them this morning to go for a run. I went for a run around the neighborhood for half an hour. I really like these shoes because they're really light and they breathe easy. I use them to go on runs. Sometimes I use them at work since I do a lot of walking and they are so comfortable.” (25-year-old male).

“I just purchased a Kindle Fire. It is black. I can read books and access the internet. It opens a world of novelty to me. I read a book in bed and checked the weather this morning before even getting up. I spent about 45 mins. I also downloaded several apps. I was laying down and the ease of Kindle use allowed me to comfortably read without noise to wake up my partner.” (29-year-old female).

The study had two other conditions. One was a control condition in which participants didn’t do anything. In the other condition, they formed a plan to use a possession they hadn’t recently used, which is a common situation many of us face because we have so many things we haven't used recently.

After this experimental manipulation, study participants were given a series of five products. These were a cashmere sweater, a stainless steel watch, a coffee maker, a chair, and a box of Godiva chocolates. For each item, participants indicated how much they were willing to pay (WTP) for it. We calculated a WTP index for each participant, by standardizing each item’s WTP and then adding the values.

Source: Reflection study results/ Graphic by Utpal Dholakia

As the figure shows, those who had reflected on using their possession recently had a much lower willingness-to-pay for a basket of products than either the control or the plan conditions. To give you a sense of the actual numbers, the total WTP for the five items of those who reflected was $227, compared to $265 for the control group and $281 for the planning group. In other words, reflection about recently used possessions lowered the person’s willingness-to-pay for new items by about 14% compared to the control condition.

Reflection is like a mental “shopping the closet” visualization, and a useful way to stifle the urge to buy new things. Why does this effect occur? That will be the subject of a future blog post.

====== 154 ========

DEMOCRATS FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGING SECULAR VOTERS

Source: DonkeyHotey, Flickr, Creative Commons license

The recent midterm elections reflect the increasing clout of secular voters, a group that has grown significantly in recent years, and at least one major party is starting to take note.

According to polling data released by Pew, 17 percent of voters in 2018 were religiously unaffiliated, up from only 11 percent in 2006 and 12 percent in both 2010 and 2014. While this unaffiliated bloc grew by about half, the “Protestant/other Christian” bloc was shrinking, down from 55 percent in 2006 and 2010, to 53 percent in 2014, to only 47 percent this year.

As impressive as these figures are for the religiously unaffiliated (also known as “Nones”), the numbers suggest that there is room for even more growth. The 17 percent figure, for example, still trails the overall size of the religiously unaffiliated demographic nationwide (24 percent of the United States population as a whole, according to PRRI data, and an even larger percentage of the younger population). The Nones were in single digits a generation ago, but now they are one of the largest and youngest demographics.

The growth of the influence of Nones would appear to be good news for Democrats, as recent history shows that the unaffiliated tend to lean heavily blue. In the 2010, 2014 and 2018 midterms, about seven in ten Nones voted Democratic. By comparison, 50 percent of Catholics votes for Democrats in 2018, and slightly fewer in 2010 and 2014. Protestants have favored Republicans in each of the last four midterm elections, according to the Pew data, with white evangelicals being the most solidly in the GOP corner (75 percent in 2018 and similar figures in previous years).

For anyone familiar with the culture wars, none of these numbers should be very surprising. The Religious Right has called the GOP home since 1980 when the Majority helped elect Ronald Reagan, and the party has consistently courted the conservative Christian demographic ever since. Opposing abortion rights and LGBT rights, denying scientific consensus on issues like evolution and global warming when it conflicts with literal interpretations of the Bible, Republicans have frequently snubbed the secular demographic while catering to the party’s Christian base. As such, it’s no surprise that those who say they “never” go to church voted 68/30 for Democrats in 2018, according to the Pew data, whereas those who attend church weekly voted for Republicans 58/40.

Despite the GOP's romance with the Christian right, over the years the Democratic Party has never openly pursued the nonreligious demographic. On the contrary, elected Democrats have usually been older, oblivious the growing secularity of the population, and they’ve often accepted the much-repeated but inaccurate claim that America is a “very religious country.” Although a large and growing portion of the American population is secular, and even many who claim religious affiliation are lukewarm about it, establishment Democrats have unfortunately been slow on the uptake.

Finally, however, there are signs that Democrats are starting to appreciate the importance of the Nones. In what might be a first, the Massachusetts Democratic Party this month passed a resolution recognizing the importance of the religiously unaffiliated demographic. (Full disclosure: I was involved in drafting the resolution.) The resolution, which can be seen here, recognizes the “value, ethical soundness, and importance of the religiously unaffiliated” and affirms that “the ‘Nones’ are a group that, as much as any other, advocates for rational public policy based on sound science and universal humanistic values.” The document is also critical of the use of claims of “religious liberty” as a means of justifying policy that threatens the rights of women and minorities.

Time will tell whether other states, or even the national party, will follow the Massachusetts lead, but it seems clear that many are starting to recognize that the secular demographic is not going away. Earlier this year, for example, several members of Congress even formed a Congressional Freethought Caucus to solidify the presence of secular values on Capitol Hill. Perhaps not surprisingly, all members of the caucus so far are Democrats.

As the secular demographic grows and flexes its muscle, time will tell whether the GOP makes an effort to attract them. Seculars are not monolithic, so traditional Republican mantras of low taxes and deregulation might resonate with some, but the secular numbers within the GOP are likely to remain relatively low so long as the Christian right is steering the ship. As such, if demographics continue to trend secular, at some point Republicans will have to consider whether there is a future in Bible-based .

On : @ahadave

====== 155 ========

7 REASONS WHY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE HAVING LESS SEX

In our highly sexualized and increasingly permissive culture, you might think that young adults are having more than ever before. If so, you would be wrong.

In a lengthy and very popular cover story in the December 2018 issue of The Atlantic magazine, “The Sex Recession,” Kate Julian argues that “young people are launching their sex lives later and having sex less frequently than members of previous generations.” The question is why.

Among the evidence Julian cites:

“In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t.”

"People now in their early 20s are two and a half times as likely to be abstinent as Gen Xers were at that age; 15 percent report having had no sex since they reached adulthood.”

In the U.S., “about 60 percent of adults under age 35 now live without a spouse or a partner.” (Of course, that does not mean they live without sex – more on that later.)

In Japan in 2015, 43 percent of young people (ages 18 to 34) were virgins. Married people were not having much sex, either: 47 percent said it had been more than a month since they had sex.

Julian mentioned in passing many possible reasons for what she calls “the sex recession,” but underscored 6 as having come up most often in her research and interviews. (She combined parental pressure with hook-up culture; I’m separating them. I’ve also changed the order of the reasons.) I’ll recount her reasons first. Then I will add a 7th reason, my own. I’ll also explain what I think Julian got wrong. I’ll end by suggesting that the real issue is one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology: What are humans really like?

Here are The Atlantic’s top 6 reasons for the sexual recession.

1. Parental Pressure

It’s their ’ fault. That’s one of the reasons author Kate Julian posits for the decline in sex among young adults. Invoking the term of derision, “helicopter parents,” she says that parents’ “about their children’s educational and economic prospects” has increased. Parents are urging their kids to focus on building their credentials in high school and college rather than investing in . They are also supervising their kids more closely, leaving them with less free time for fooling around away from watchful eyes.

2. Bodily Self-consciousness, Distraction, Deprivation, and Other Sources of Inhibition

Young adults may be having less sex because their potential for being aroused is being undermined in many ways. Digital distractions are among the most obvious potential culprits. Sleep deprivation doesn’t help, either. Having a negative , or feeling self-conscious about your naked body, can also stand in the way of sexual fulfillment, and Julian suggests that today’s young adults may struggle more with these issues.

If, as some have suggested, anxiety and are on the rise in the younger generations, that, too, could account for some of the decrease in sex. Anti-depressants can also undermine sexual desire.

3. The Problem with Apps

It might seem like the proliferation of dating apps has made it easier to find dating partners, but that is not necessarily so. Kate Julian found that Tinder tends to be a huge waste of time. It takes an average of more than 60 swipes to get one match, and many matches do not result in a 2-way exchange of text-messages.

And, of course, the matches are not evenly distributed. The “highly photogenic” people, as Julian tactfully puts it, are the ones finding dating apps most useful.

The expectation that people will use dating apps to connect with other people has, Julian believes, a troubling implication. The kinds of casual overtures that people used to make, now seem creepy. Apparently, that even applies to striking up conversations in bars.

If dating apps are wildly inefficient and ineffective, and it is problematic to ask people out (even if you have gotten to know them a bit, for example, by working in the same building or playing on the same ), then finding opportunities to have sex is going to be difficult, too.

4. Hook-ups Instead of Romantic Relationships

If young people were having copious amounts of hook-up sex, then maybe their overall rates of sex would not be decreasing, even though they are dating less often and are less likely to have special romantic relationships. Actual rates of casual sex, though, have not lived up to the hype.

Here is Kate Julian’s summary of the findings from Lisa Wade’s book, American Hookup: The New Culture of Sex on Campus:

“Roughly one-third were…”abstainers” – they opted out of hook-up culture entirely. A little more than a third were “dabblers” – they hooked up sometimes, but ambivalently. Less than a quarter were “enthusiasts,” who delighted in hooking up. The remainder were in long-term relationships.”

The percentages probably translate into something like this:

33 percent, abstainers

35 percent, dabblers

23 percent, enthusiasts

9 percent, long-term relationships

5. Sex Is Bad or Painful More Often Than We Realize

Another reason the rate of sex may be decreasing is that, more often than we realize, the sex that young adults are having is bad sex or painful sex. They are also more willing to say “no thanks” to having any more of it.

Young adults are experiencing more of the kinds of sex that is popularized in , such as anal sex and choking (erotic asphyxiation). Julian points to a study showing that the percent of women in their late 20s who had tried anal sex had doubled from 20 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 2012. Research shows, she says, that “in the absence of high-quality sex , teen boys look to porn for help sex.”

Plenty of women are not enjoying anal sex or vaginal intercourse. In 2012, Julian notes, 30 percent of women experienced pain during vaginal intercourse and a whopping 72 percent said that the anal sex they experienced was painful.

Orgasms in the context of hookups with a new partner are strikingly rare. In the study Julian described, just 31 percent of men and a jaw-droppingly low 11 percent of women experienced under those conditions.

One of the sex researchers Julian interviewed, Debby Herbenick, suggests a positive interpretation of the decline in the frequency with which young people are having sex. Today’s adults feel freer to say no to sex they don’t want.

Julian also believes that women are now valuing their female more. She seems to attribute that to their disappointment with men and romantic relationships. (I think that interpretation, on its own, is demeaning. My reading of the relevant information is that appreciation for our friends is growing, even apart from any bad experiences with heterosexual romantic relationships.)

6. People Are Satisfying Their Sexual Desires, Just Not with Other People

Although rates of intercourse have been decreasing – the main finding that the Atlantic article was trying to explain – that doesn’t mean that people are not experiencing sexual pleasure. One of the studies Julian mentioned found dramatic increases in rates of from 1992 to 2014 – double for men (in 2014, 54 percent said that they masturbated in a given week) and more than triple for women (26 percent).

The increase could be linked to the greater accessibility of porn over time. Other products and services that facilitate sexual experiences without involving other humans are also becoming more popular – sex dolls, for example.

Stop Blaming Single People

Kate Julian said she started out expecting to say more about “the benefits of loosening social conventions, and of less couple-centric pathways to a happy life.” But she ended up focusing on other concerns instead. One problem, I think, is that her sources were comprised overwhelmingly of people who were not ever going to offer an affirming perspective on single life.

Perhaps she relied on what those people told her and did not read the relevant original sources. These claims that she made, for example, are somewhere between misleading and just plain wrong:

“Not having a partner – sexual or romantic – can be both a cause and effect of discontent. Moreover, as American social institutions have withered, having a life partner has become a stronger predictor than ever of well-being.”

No, getting married does not improve people’s or

You would think, from reading those claims, that people who marry become happier and healthier. But by 2012, there were already 18 studies that followed the same people over time, as they went from being single to getting married. They did not become happier than they were when they were single, except sometimes for a brief “honeymoon effect” early on. The most recent and most sophisticated studies show that people who marry do not become healthier, either, and depending on the measure, sometimes become less healthy.

What about Julian’s claim about the growing importance, over time, of having a life partner? If she were right about that, then should be linked to greater well-being for younger people than for older ones. A 2017 study by Dmitri Tumin examined the links between marriage and health for people born in the decades starting in 1955, 1965, and 1975. Getting married did not mean getting healthier for the men or the women in any of the three cohorts.

Tumin looked at his data in all sorts of ways, but only found one hint that getting married was good for health: Among the oldest women (those born between 1955 and 1964), those who married for the first time and stayed married for at least 10 years become slightly healthier than when they were single. But for the comparable women in the middle group (born between 1965 and 1974), there were no health benefits whatsoever. And for the youngest group (born between 1975 and 1984), there was a slight, though statistically insignificant, deterioration in their health after marrying. That’s just the opposite of what Julian claimed.

Frequency of sex is declining most for married people, not singles

Perhaps the most relevant finding is about the rate of sex, over time, among single and married people. Analyses of survey data from 1989 through 2014 showed that Americans today are having less sex. More importantly, as I noted in my discussion of the results of that study:

“The decline in sexual frequency was not the same for everyone. The decrease in having sex was especially steep for people who were married or divorced and much less so (if at all) for lifelong single people.”

Maybe instead of spending 15 printed magazine pages explaining the decreasing frequency of sex among young adults, most of whom are single, Julian should have instead focused more of her on married people. Why is it that their rates of sex are decreasing the most?

7. (My suggestion, not The Atlantic’s) The Rise of Individualism Means That People Have More Opportunities to Live the Lives They Want, Not the Ones Dictated by Norms or Pressures

The first sentence of “The Sex Recession” was, “These should be boom times for sex.” Continuing, Kate Julian added:

“The share of Americans who say sex between unmarried adults is “not at all wrong” is at an all-time high. New cases of HIV are at an all-time low. Most women can – at last – get birth control for free, and the morning-after pill without a prescription. [With regard to practices such as polyamory and anal sex]...our culture has never been more tolerant of sex in just about every permutation.”

And yet, the frequency with which young people are having sex is declining. So is the rate at which married people are having sex.

Perhaps one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology is, what is human ? What are humans really like? It would be impossible to remove every social pressure, every norm, every obligation, and just see how people act. But as more and more constraints get lifted, such as the ones Julian described, we can edge a little closer to seeing what humans would do if left to their own devices.

“Our for sex is supposed to be primal,” Julian noted, and yet people often “pick messing around online over actual messing around.” Maybe, she suggests, “the human sex drive is more fragile than we thought.” Also consistent with that interpretation is the growing recognition of asexuality as a sexual orientation and not a sexual dysfunction.

Julian quotes Emily Nagoski, author of Come as You Are, who has an apt answer to all the talk about how fundamental sex is:

====== 156 ========

YOU ARE (NOT) RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWING EVERYTHING

I was catching up with my friend Helen at a coffee shop in Chicago. Beautiful and , Helen is the kind of person you take one look at and you just know she has it all together. She tells me she has never struggled with at any point in her life. She was good at academics. She felt good about how she looked. She was self-assured socially and in her .

Then she became a mother.

“My confidence was destroyed. That was when I first felt incompetent,” Helen told me. “I had always felt competent at work and in my life, and that made me feel confident. It took me about three years to realize what was going on as a mother. I didn’t feel confident about my choices, I didn’t feel confident about my plans.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Well, I would ask myself, ‘Is this going to result in the outcome I’m looking for?’ And there’s no manual for that.”

“So what outcome are you looking for?”

“I want a successful child, right? I want a happy kid, and I want a successful kid. I didn’t know if I was making all the right choices. I actually feel like we parent in the age of a ton of research. So you have no excuse either. You can't fly blind. If you're flying blind, It’s because you're not doing your job. You're not reading and you're not doing your job.”

Source: Rawpixel on Unsplash

“Wow, that is a big job. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I research. Research helps us understand and those insights can really help. But, somehow, the way you talk about research feels like a terrible burden.”

“Exactly,” Helen went on, “I almost feel like the preponderance of literature out there actually makes it worse, because I feel responsible to know the answer. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a one year old. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a three year old. I've always said ‘I wish I had a manual that would tell me how I should react in every situation.’ But in some ways, we almost have that and that's what's killing us. I know what I should be doing and and I feel like I have to have the answer at every moment and I just don’t. I don’t.”

“Well that is quite a ShouldStorm right there!” I responded. We laughed and took a sip of our coffees. “So, I think you are saying that having the right, research-based answer in each specific situation is what would make you feel confident.”

“Yes,” she said emphatically, “The responsibility to all the literature out there is killing us. There is a world of literature out there and I know if I just look hard enough, I can find those answers.” Helen looked tired.

“That’s really interesting, because I am a pediatrician and have studied extensively, and I don’t have all of those answers.”

Source: Photo by Eliabe Costa on Unsplash

What if we did have a manual for every situation?

Helen had just described something I had identified through my work: one of the three untrue laws of the Shouldstorm. Untrue Law #1: We need to get it right, all the time. Often we don’t realize we believe this, but we act like we do. We criticize ourselves or feel burdened by worry if we don’t get it just right in each situation as parents. Even if you recognize that this is being too hard on ourselves, we still wish we could do it.

Now, for a moment, imagine this from your child’s perspective. Your parents tell you that they love you no matter what, and that it’s okay to make mistakes. But they are hard on themselves if they don’t get it just right all the time. Will you believe them? Will you be confused and wonder if they mean it about loving you? Won’t you think that really the rule is to get it just right all the time? Won’t it make you worry?

Helen wants a successful, happy child. I am certain that a successful child is not a child who has to know exactly what to do in each circumstance. That is a burdened and unhappy child.

What Research is For (Hint: It’s not Cyber-Chondria)

Research findings can be profoundly helpful to us, but that depends on how we view them. When research (which has advanced our ) becomes a burden, an obligation and a long list of shoulds, it robs is of the core of what makes us good parents. Well designed scientific research is a genuine good— if we understand it for what it is. Research is a tool; a knowledge base and a way of producing knowledge. Here’s the thing about tools: they are only as a good as the way we use them.

In September 2017, the BBC reported a growing problem: cyber-chondria. They reported that a of researchers had found that “Worrying excessively about , and going for unnecessary appointments and tests, is a growing problem - fueled by looking up symptoms on the internet.” This “health ” even produced physical symptoms like persistent chest pains and headaches. We doctors call that somatization, and we see anxiety producing physical symptoms quite often in pediatric practice.

"Dr Google is very informative, but he doesn't put things in the right proportion,” they observed. Not even the doctor’s reassurance relieved the patient’s worry. The researchers found that the answer was not more tests, or making their doctor read all the articles the worried patients were reading, but rather anxiety-reducing .

This shows up in parents too. Untrue Law of the ShouldStorm #1 convinces us as parents that We need to get it right, all the time. Part of that is feeling like we need to know. Some of us choose the research, some of us choose talking to our neighbors and doing what they do, some of us read online groups. And it creates a terrible unsettled feeling that something is wrong with us and our kids.

Let’s walk out of the ShouldStorm and free our kids, as we free ourselves, from the burden of having to know it all. Real confidence is about . Real success is about being safe in our own skins, not jumping out of them from anxiety. A truly happy child, a truly happy parent is able to connect and enjoy other people, undistracted by nagging fears. The more we try to get it just the way we should, the more rigid we become. The Shoulds cut us off from our kids, and that’s nobody’s idea of success.

Is it possible to use research to help our ?

How can we use the wonderful advances child development knowledge in a way that builds our confidence? We can start by watching our sources.

Websites: Watch out! I give my patients a list of reliable websites and steer them away from the ones that raise anxiety. In general, good advice equips and bad advice makes you anxious. When in doubt try the AAP for parent questions or the CDC for reliable medical science.

Social : Double watch out! Social media can connect you with supportive who care for you or share encouraging articles. Or it can introduce you to misinformation and criticism straight from the ShouldStorm. Is your heart rate going up and your breathing getting shallow? You probably just got shoulded on.

Your pediatrician: We love you and your kids. We took an oath and we meant it. We are committed to helping you do a great job. But try to go easy on us, because, as the BBC reports: "People now go to their GPs with a whole list of things they've looked up on the internet, and the poor GP, five minutes into the consultation, has four pages of reading to do.”

====== 157 ========

THE VERY HUMAN FUTURE OF TV IN AN AGE OF AI

Source: Secret Cinema

A couple of months ago, I was invited to speak at the Edinburgh TV Festival, as part of the “How to Win the Future” session with futurist Monika Bielskyte and blockchain-for-TV startup founder Ashley Turing, moderated by the Irish comedian and TV show host Dara O’Briain.

I spoke about the need for romanticism in business, which was less of a foreign concept than at other industry events in which I have taken part. Television is a romantic business: Inherently, it’s all about imagining other worlds and creating meaning through powerful storytelling; it’s about adventure, drama, extreme emotions, and human connections.

Disrupted by FAANGs and AI

The industry is nervous, though: Both public broadcasters and increasingly also pay-TV that the so-called FAANGs ( , Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) might be eating their lunch. In Edinburgh, just before our session, Labor Party Jeremy Corbyn even proposed a “journalism tax” for tech companies.

Further, (AI) has arisen as a threat to the very heart of TV—storytelling. While AI is already superior in process automation and data processing, it is now also invading inherently human turf: and emotions. We have already seen AI-composed music, fashion design, journalism, even paintings, poetry, movies, and more. While the results are not convincing yet, the impetus of data-driven “forced reductionism,” to use Joichi Ito’s term, will undoubtedly affect TV as well.

There are two scenarios: We can use AI to enhance human ingenuity and creative expression; or we can use it to end up in a dystopian, uber-algorithmic content farm where we essentially get to consume the data we produce.

Storytellers have seen this looming conflict all along, but their visions have mostly been lopsided toward the dystopian: War of the Worlds, The Matrix, Minority Report, Her, 1984, The Lobster, Ex Machina, Frankenstein, The Truman Show, Westworld, and Black Mirror, to mention just a few. As Monika Bielskyte pointed out in her talk, when we imagine the future, we tend to do it in dystopian terms. She illustrated her point by showing us the Google results for “utopian cities”: Even that term yielded a collection of images that look like Gotham.

There is never going to be a shortage of or outright cynicism. This is why in this day and age, storytellers have a right and a responsibility to inspire and provoke, not simply to depress their audiences so they turn away. In fact, what should give the TV networks hope is the very fact that they can give us hope and an impetus to make change.

This can start by creating positive narratives for AI, featuring an AI as a warm, friendly, trusted, and perhaps even funny character — a pursuit that novelist and Hollywood consultant Aditi Khorana recently facilitated in a workshop at the House of Beautiful Business conference.

Connecting us with the other

Moreover, TV makers should remember that at its best TV is a shared experience that fosters and belonging, forms and meaning, and strengthens citizenship and diversity. Television is still a powerful medium when it comes to showing us and connecting us with “the other,” and in our fragmented or divided societies this capacity is ever more important.

No wonder diversity and inclusion were critical topics in Edinburgh. The TV industry has powerful means to strengthen it: first of all, it can produce content that shows the full range of humanity, from the local pub in Brighton to a micro-enterprise in Nairobi, different cultures, ethnicities, generations, and identities, especially those that are fluid, non-binary, contradictory. Second, it can feature a diverse cast of characters and create more roles for these identities both on camera and off. “Representation starts both in front of and behind the camera,” Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina told Variety in a new interview.

Moreover, stories will become even more powerful in the future as we will have more unstructured time on our hands and may need more of both on the human condition and a device to escape from it. Storytellers can use AI and Artificial Emotional Intelligence (AEI) to augment, celebrate, and shape their stories.

Here are some ideas for TV makers:

Co-create stories with AI. AI can compile plot options based on AEI (scanning and analyzing human emotions) and/or the personal input and track record of humans, aggregated data, and predictive analytics. It can thus help crowdsource content and narratives and inspire human participation. AI could help personalize VR/AR and other immersive content: AEI, volumetric capture (as used by the award-winning Movie Vestige), AI avatars, or transmedia storytelling can make us feel more and create stronger emotions as well as perhaps even new emotions. We humans like to gather. Can the collective, social experience of TV be the ultimate differentiator and humanizer? What’s the Secret Cinema of TV? What does “TV-as-experience” look like? Aside from public viewing or gamification, are there business models such as virtual viewing communities or even co-viewing spaces similar to co-working spaces? Is there room for a “WeView”? Make it realer than real. In-the-Real-Life still beats AI, from Twitch to life-streaming (e.g. Ice Poseidon) to the ultimate gamification and reality TV of life. Stretch and overcome time: from time-shifting (DVR) to bingewatching (Netflix) to "holotime" (the past, present, and future of characters and viewers intertwined). What if TV networks co-monetized with viewers (based on their true data sovereignty)? What if they used AI and Blockchain technology to empower consumers to hold on to their personal data and consumption data and sell it to advertisers/networks, or give it away to non-profits to enhance social impact storytelling? Can there maybe be a token-based revenue share between networks, talent, and data-sovereign viewers? Is there a market for the Mozilla ("Internet for people, not profit") of TV (the anti-FAANG, so to speak; see Facebook’s patent to eavesdrop on TV consumption) with the result of more loyal audiences in the long run?

The only way to beat AI is to create stories that AI doesn’t know yet. If we do so, then TV can remind us of what it means to be human.

Only then will we look at the screen and still see ... us.

====== 158 ========

WHAT'S YOUR STORY? LIFE AS NARRATIVE

Source: unsplash

Whether or not we are truly inventors of our own lives, we certainly are inventors of the story of our lives. For some, this story is clear and in the forefront of their minds, becoming what drives them, what determines how they spend their time and energy. For many others the story is less clear, fragmented, or seemingly outside their awareness but often easily seen by others: Jake always casts himself as the victim, Sara the martyr, Carly always thinks things will work out for the best, while Henry is always braced for the worst.

Our story is shaped by the stories of others, those important to us who were not only role models but who also doled out their own particular philosophies of life. And of course, there are our own experiences and values. Our story becomes the lens through which we view life’s events, our with others; it determines what can expect of ourselves and life itself.

So, what’s your story? Here are some questions to help you define yours. As you answer them, think not in terms how you think things ought to be, but rather how you think and behave in everyday life.

How safe is the world, and other people?

This is about trust, about and . Bad things happen out of the blue; the other shoe always drops; others are out to screw you or scam you. You need to be cautious, alert, take what people say with a grain of salt, trust your family or your kind, but be wary of everyone else.

Or no, sure there are always some bad apples, even dangerous people, but most people are good, considerate, willing to help or at least turn the other cheek. Sure, bad things happen, but also a lot of good things happen as well if we just look for them. You don’t want to be naïve, but it’s okay to trust and believe that things will or can be worked out.

How do you treat others?

This obviously follows from the first. If the world is unsafe, if others can’t be fully trusted and you are wary, you hold back, you keep your distance. Or no, your stance is more aggressive than that: it’s every man / woman for his or her self. Or there’s a middle ground of politeness and courtesy to those you don’t know, if not necessarily a friendliness. Or your values, , and outlook cause you to reach out, always give the other guy the benefit of the doubt, and, if possible, a helping hand. The world is our family.

What’s your measure of or success?

For some it is measured by the attainment of in the bigger world — achievement in a , wealth, professional reputation. For others it may be a contentment that comes from the support and love of family, ; for it may be measured by the happiness of their children. For still others happiness is not measured by outcome but by doing — being creative or doing what gives you meaning, competing against your rivals and hopefully coming out on top, or some combination of all the above.

Think of what you strive or hope for, but also what brings you happiness in the everyday.

How do you reach your measure of happiness / success?

You put your head down, stay focused on the goal, and work hard. No, you follow your instincts, your imagination, those wisps of , your . Or you succeed by helping others succeed — encouraging and supporting them in their own quest for happiness, being the best role model you can be. Or no, you reach your goals by keeping an eye on your rivals and making the most of their weaknesses.

Why do bad things happen?

They just do; they help us see and appreciate the good; there is really no bad but only what we decide to call bad; it is God’s will, God’s test for us; they are pay-backs for our wrongs. We don’t know.

What is the purpose of life, your life?

See above.

Do you have major regrets, ? How has it shaped your view of life, your image of yourself?

Regrets and guilt can certainly teach us lessons, but often their wounding overshadows and outlasts the . Think of that poor secret service agent who 40 years later is still haunted and feeling responsible for the death of John Kennedy, and still unable to himself. Regrets and guilt can cause us to stay stuck in the past, feel that we are not entitled to happiness, drastically turn our view of life and ourselves upside down.

If you were to pick one word to describe the overall tone of your life what would it be?

As you work through these questions, is there a theme? If you had a pick a song to be the soundtrack of your life, what would that song be?

In one sentence, what advice would you most want to pass onto your children, your grandchildren?

So, what have you discovered? What is the story that you consciously or unconsciously tell yourself about the of relationships, the world? How has this story shaped your expectations and defined your purpose and about your life and life itself?

One final question: Do you want to keep your story, or do you want to change it?

====== 159 ========

SPRINTING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE

Your kids likely fell in the house for the Thanksgiving holiday yearning for a break—wanting to luxuriate in the comfort of their bed for long hours, ready to savor home cooked meals, and eager for opportunities to dash out and see their from home. Who can blame them? They have likely logged about twelve weeks of classes and stomached some gross stuff in the dining hall and had their fair share of social disappointments at college. Nevertheless, most students experience a mixture of feelings with the anticipation of returning to campus. They are generally eager to regain the independence they have cultivated and to hang out with college buddies with whom they are experimenting with their new sense of self. Yet, without a doubt they are stressed about what is to come in the next few weeks---final exams and projects and trying to make it to the finish line intact.

Source: Tim Gouw/ Unsplash

As a college professor for over twenty years, I can say with great certainty that this becomes a trying time for everyone. Students as well as faculty have gotten that glorious taste of a bit of rest and relaxation, more time with family and friends and a bit more indulgence. It is hard to regain the energy for the last push of the semester which is completely necessary to finish with greater success. The Thanksgiving holiday becomes a bit of a tease—-like those tiny bags of pretzels on an airplane when you are actually starving. So, when they head back to school, students can benefit by doing the following:

====== 160 ========

AN OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK AND THE FIRST MEMORIES OF LIFE

Source: Pixabay

In June, while attending a professional conference in Toronto, I decided to take a break and go for a swim at the hotel pool. As I was signing in and picking up a towel, the pool attendant warmly greeted me. She seemed genuinely interested in how I was doing and hoped that I was enjoying my stay at the hotel. We talked for a few minutes, and I learned that Julianna was 20 years old and studying to become a masseuse. While I was swimming, several other patrons entered the pool area, and I noticed that Julianna also graciously welcomed each person with a warm smile and brief conversation.

Julianna's behavior stood out to me because she seemed to make an effort to provide a few special moments for the individuals who showed up at the pool. I wanted to know more about her, and after my swim, I asked Julianna if she would be willing to share one of her first with me. She readily agreed, and I wrote down the following. "The first thing that I remember is playing outside at recess. There were dolls on the playground that seemed to revolve around. I played on the swings a lot, and I fell off the swing that day." I asked her, "What part do you remember most in the memory?" Julianna, responded, "How I felt when I was on the swing. It was one of the happiest moments of my life at that time."

After Julianna rendered her early recollection, I said that I would try to say something about its possible meaning. I began by stating, "You have an outlook on life, and you try to make the best out of situations and often find them to be special." She nodded in agreement, "This is how I am." I added, "At the same time, your and other people in your life tease you in a friendly way about your persistent level of optimism." Julianna laughed heartily: "This happens a lot."

I then asked Julianna one more question. "How are you so optimistic given all the ups and downs that we all face in life?" She related, "I am sentimental and it is natural for me. There are a lot of soulless people, and I haven't lost my soul." At that point, it started to get busy at the counter, and I thought that it would be best if we talked more at a later point. Julianna said that she was working the next day and looked forward to seeing me again.

When I came to the swimming pool early the next day, I was told that Julianna would not be on duty until the afternoon. Unfortunately, I had a plane to catch and soon had to leave the hotel. I did not get to see her again. In reflecting on Julianna's first memory, I wondered about her statement about "the soul" and its relationship to optimism and early recollections. Intuitively, I thought that it may have something to do with maintaining a childlike wonder and enjoying what life offers in the moment. At the same time, I needed to hear directly from Julianna on a face-to-face basis about her perception of life.

We all have an opportunity to learn more from people like Julianna. Perhaps it may be the service worker we see regularly who always seems to be in a good mood. There may be a neighbor, a friend, or a relative that stands out for maintaining a positive outlook on life. In my experience, often these individuals relate early recollections that are optimistic and seem to provide an emotionally uplifting quality. Follow-up conversations can be enlightening relating to how such persons sustain a sense of hopefulness despite encountering adversities in living. We need to hear more from those who have a "natural" optimistic outlook in their early memories and in their way of being.

====== 161 ========

I DIDN'T SAY THAT! YOU MUST BE IMAGINING IT

Source: Photo by rawpixel

"Are you wearing that dress to dinner?" My friend Amy can say that with just the right tone of voice. You know the one that lets you know she is in disbelief that you would actually do such a horrible thing. But what happens if you call her on it? "Amy, you don't like my dress?" She responds, "I didn't say that." She didn't say the words, true, but she indirectly implied that my choice of attire was completely unacceptable.

There's lots of ways that "You are so wrong but I didn't say that" communication is used. Questions about something that you know they already know is one example. "Have you bought your mother's birthday gift yet?" sounds innocent enough if you just look at or listen to the words. But with the right tone and context (your wife knows you haven't bought the gift) it's actually an implied criticism. The speaker's intentions are hidden in a way they can be denied. Instead of saying, "You're mother's birthday is tomorrow and once again you haven't bothered to get a gift," asking the question gets the same message across and the speaker can claim there's no criticism intended. The speaker claims innocence and avoids responsibility for their criticism. "All I did was ask a question. What's wrong with you today?"

Implied criticism can also be found in offers of help. "I can help you with baking," said when you bring banana bread to the office, clearly implies that your banana bread is a failure. A more subtle implied criticism would be, "I always find sour cream helps banana bread stay moist." If you confront the person, it's easy for her to say, "I was only trying to help." "There are art classes available at the community center," is a thumbs down review of your latest painting. But of course the person who offers that suggestion sees herself as trying to help. Even compliments can be put downs. When Gloria tells Jim, in front of Greg her husband, that Jim is the most thoughtful spouse she knows, she's also saying that her husband is not as thoughtful. But if Greg comments, Gloria can say, "It wasn't about you, can't I compliment Jim?"

Implied criticism has advantages to the speakers. They say what they think in an indirect way, usually something critical, and at the same time can deny they intended to give the message that you heard. It's not their fault you're upset--you're over reacting or hearing something they didn't say.

How do you cope with implied criticism? If the individual regularly criticizes you in this way, you'll probably pull back and start to avoid the person. You'll lose trust because they aren't being honest about what they are communicating. For some , you may prefer to do this. At the same time, it's possible the individual isn't aware of how his communication is received and truly sees himself as trying to help. If the relationship is one you want to keep, then asking directly may be the best way to save a relationship that is important to you. "Are you saying that you don't like my banana bread?" "No, not at all, I was just giving a suggestion." "Okay, just checking because it wasn't clear." If you regularly ask the other person to clarify his meaning, you'll probably see a change. But even if you don't, you won't be as frustrated.

====== 162 ========

SAY GOODBYE: IT'S TURKEY DROP TIME

Cold weather and the holiday season are upon us, and apparently, so too are the tough relationship decisions. Should you stay or should you go? Now, it seems, is peak decision time.

Yes, we're entering prime break-up season. College students everywhere are heading home for Thanksgiving and returning to school, single. And is it only college students? Probably not. The winter and its many romantic holidays (e.g., Christmas, New Year's Eve, Valentine's Day) are on the horizon, making now a good time for unhappy people to make a change.

The Turkey Drop

The Turkey Drop is the catchy phrase that aptly captures the spike in romantic break-ups that occurs annually in late fall. Data from McCandless and Byron, who examined changes in status, corroborate the Turkey Drop. A dramatic rise in romantic break-ups seems to occur during the few weeks leading up to the Christmas holiday.1

On one hand, it seems rather heartless: initiating a break-up so close to the holidays. However, around Thanksgiving may be the first chance that freshmen have to make the break in person, rather than over text, the phone, or Skype. By late-November, the challenges that come with long-distance may have taken their toll, and new social circles may make the prospect of single-life appealing. Relationships that once felt like forever relationships, now might feel like they belonged to younger, different people.

Holiday Pressure

The Turkey Drop may also extend beyond the college years: people unhappy in their relationships might be motivated to end their relationships before the hoopla of the holiday begins. This would avoid holiday gift giving pressure, mandatory New Year's eve plans, and Valentine's Day expectations that might come with a continued relationship.

Noteworthy too is the spike in engagements that occur around the holiday season. According to Statista, nearly 20% of proposals occur in December. If a relationship isn't headed towards marriage, perhaps mid-fall is a reasonable time to end a relationship and avoid the potential pressure of engagement season.

Divorces Aren't Tied to the Turkey Drop

If you're married, your relationship is probably safe from the dreaded Turkey Drop. Despite the seasonal spike in break-ups right around Thanksgiving among couples, the story looks different for married couples. Researchers out of the University of Washington analyzed divorce filings over a fifteen year period, and discovered that a spike in filings tends to occur during March and August.

Why might divorces peak during March and August? Rather than succumbing to the Turkey Drop, the researchers speculated that couples who are already in a committed partnership may view the holidays with hope. Married couples might imagine the possibility of a return to happier times, a stitching back together existing open wounds, or the opportunity for gestures that will change the current direction of a struggling relationship. Come March, after the winter and holidays fail to meet expectations, couples may be in a position to take the final step.

The same story applies to August, but this time the focus is on family vacations. The researchers hypothesize that couples in struggling marriages might put their hope in a wonderful family summer vacation, and when it does not meet their expectations, they may make the decision to formally end their marriages.

1. The other break-up season? Late February/early March: a spring-cleaning of sorts that appears to occur right before most colleges have their spring breaks.

====== 163 ========

IS #THANKSGAYVING IN YOUR NEWS FEED?

Did you notice any posts on your newsfeed this week about ‘Gaysgiving’ ‘Friendsgiving’ or 'ThanksGAYving'? Holidays of any kind are a time when families get together, share food, fight, makeup, and generally just do what families do. For many in the LGBTQ community, however, holidays can be a difficult time of the year.

Source: Pexels.

Often they may not be welcome at their family gatherings, or, if they are, they may only be welcome so long as they don’t bring their partner, or don’t do anything to ‘out’ themselves. This puts many people in a difficult position. How do you choose between the of your family traditions and the desire to include your partner in new traditions? Luckily, queers are nothing if not and this resiliency shows up every year during the holidays when groups of queer get together to re-invent family holiday gatherings and to make sure that the magic of the holidays isn’t lost, even if a connection to one's family of origin has been. While today we may see photos of these friendly gatherings with catchy hashtags like #GaysGiving #ThanksGAYving or #FriendsGiving, the tradition extends back beyond the birth of the hashtag and is commonly referred to as having a Chosen Family.

The term is a bit of a euphemism. It shouldn’t be interpreted as meaning that a young LGBTQ person goes out and finds themselves a new mom and dad and some queer siblings. It just means that the friends they do make within the LGBTQ community often play a more important role in their lives than an average friend might for a non-LGBTQ person. When something bad happens, these would be the people you turn to first and the people who will come to your aide when needed. Chosen Families are borne out of necessity, not a choice. Most individuals would choose to have their own family fill these important roles rather than having to turn to others. However, when they do turn to others, it is a sign of the resiliency that exists among LGBTQ individuals that they are able to build such lasting and supportive bonds without the underpinnings of a biological connection.

One needs to look no further than the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic to see the role that chosen families played in the lives (and deaths) of LGBTQ individuals, particularly women and gay and bisexual men. Biological family members abandoned their sons when they found out they were HIV positive (which was often the same time that they found out that their sons were gay). Friends, lovers, ex-lovers, and even strangers from within the LGBTQ community stepped up to fill the roles that are traditionally filled by family members. They managed each other’s medical appointments, ensured that those in the hospital or hospice had visitors, that they had help getting their affairs in order, and ultimately, it was these chosen family members who planned and attended the funerals. Those who survived came out the other side of the epidemic having lost countless numbers of their ‘chosen family’ but also with an intense of the necessity of chosen family. Thus, today, we still see many groups of LGBTQ friends spending the holidays together. Even as families have become more accepting of their LGBTQ members, chosen families continue to hold a special place in the hearts of LGBTQ folk, and thus the #GaysGiving dinners continue.

One of the reasons that researchers have theorized that chosen families are so important for LGBTQ folk is because they provide a shared level of experience that often cannot be found in an LGBTQ individual’s family of origin. Unless you grew up with LGBTQ or other close family members, no matter how accepting your family is, they are still unlikely to truly be able to empathize and understand your experiences as an LGBTQ person in a world that remains heterosexist, and sometimes outright homophobic. This means that LGBTQ youth often lack a family member who can tell them what it is like to come out, or what it will be like to be bullied and harassed based on their sexual or . Thus, there’s a greater drive to fill that role and to find other LGBTQ companions who can serve as mentors or provide advice or comfort in the face of daily challenges.

Source: pexels.

Ironically, one of the barriers to cultivating a chosen family today is the growing acceptance of LGBTQ people in society. Friends and family are far less likely to outright reject LGBTQ people, making that overwhelming necessity of finding a chosen family much less salient. As a result, many may just go about their lives without developing close bonds with other LGBTQ individuals, at least not to the extent that has been seen in past generations. At the same time, many still see the benefits of a closely-knit group of LGBTQ-identified friends, so only time will tell whether #GaysGiving will remain a tradition in the LGBTQ community or whether it will fade into something the elder-queers remember fondly, but with that kind of nostalgia that appreciates the past while simultaneously celebrating the social advances that may one day render LGBTQ chosen families unnecessary.

====== 164 ========

TECHNOLOGICAL “ADVANCES” AND THE EROSION OF SOCIETY

Source: FunkyFocus / Pixabay

We tend to see novel technologies as true “advances.” This makes sense, as that’s sort of a defining feature of technology. The wheel allowed our ancestors to move large items across great distances. Controlled fire allowed our ancestors to prepare food that could be digested relatively quickly. And rocket technologies ultimately allowed us to put a man on the moon. Sure, in many ways, technology goes hand-in-hand with progress.

The evolutionary perspective on the human condition provides important perspective on the of technology. In short, the evolutionary perspective (see my brief textbook, Evolutionary Psychology 101) suggests that when thinking about any human problem, it’s useful to consider the fact that the human mind evolved not under modern conditions, but, rather, under ancestral conditions that characterized the lion’s share of human evolution.

An important facet of this thinking pertains to the fact that agriculture and “civilization” are relatively recent, having only been developed in the past 10,000 years. Prior to this point, all human beings lived in small nomadic bands. They only ate natural foods. They necessarily exercised a lot. And their lives were, of course, without iPhones and the internet. Our evolved psychology was shaped to match those pre-agrarian conditions.

As is true with any organism, when humans experience dramatic cases of “evolutionary mismatch” (see Giphart & Van Vugt, 2018), we often run into problems. For the same reason that a palm tree will not do well in my front yard in upstate New York, humans often don’t do well in modern conditions─the conditions don’t match the conditions that the organism evolved to experience. Palm trees evolved adaptations to match relatively warm climates. Humans evolved adaptations to match small-scale societies where nature, natural foods, and exercise were abundant parts of the day-to-day experience.

From the evolutionary perspective, then, any new technology should be considered in terms of this bigger-picture evolutionary context. It is highly plausible that some technology may only provide short-term benefits to individuals (because is makes us feel good) while, inadvertently, having long-term adverse consequences (such as leading to long-term social or physical problems). We need to be wary of this kind of situation, as businesses are in it for profit, and that goes along with creating products that have short-term gain.

Modern Technologies as Supernormal Stimuli

From an evolutionary perspective, a “supernormal stimulus” is an exaggerated version of some stimulus that an organism evolved to respond to because such a response had adaptive value during the evolutionary history of that organism. A famous example comes from renowned behavioral scientist, Niko Tinbergen (1953) who studied the tendency for male stickleback fish to show an aggressive response to the red coloration of other male stickleback fishes. Tinbergen created supernormal versions of the red stimulus, simply creating fake fish that had larger and more saturated red sections on their exterior. Tinbergen found essentially that the fish showed a “the more red the more behavior” effect. That is, the supernormal stimuli with the higher proportion of red led to more consistent and stronger aggressive responses.

The lesson is this: Evolved behavioral responses can be hijacked by technology. If the fish evolved to attack “red,” then anyone can make a “super-red” stimulus that leads to an even strong behavioral response.

It turns out that humans are, actually, very similar to male stickleback fish in this broader regard. Technologies that hijack our evolved tendencies are all around you right now. The food industry has figured out the flavors that our ancestors evolved to like and has exaggerated them in tasty treats. The computer gaming industry has figured out what kinds of experiences activate our ’s pleasure centers and has provided supernormal stimuli that represent extreme versions of these stimuli. These things feel good in the moment because that’s exactly how these technologies work: They exploit our evolved psychology─not for our own long-term benefit, but, rather, for corporate profit. McDonald’s really doesn’t care if their milkshakes are contributing significantly to the modern crisis in the United States. They care about their bottom line.

Below are five examples of modern technologies that might be thought of from this evolutionary perspective. Several of these technologies hijack our evolved psychology, for the benefit of corporate profit. Often to the detriment of our own long-term health.

Five Technological “Advances” that May Be Driving Us Down a Bad Path

1. Processed food

Recent research on the proportion of processed foods eaten by Americans has led to outrageous conclusions (see Guitar, 2017). More than 60% of the food that we eat is processed. This statistic is hugely out of whack with the fact that before the advent of agriculture, during the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, all food that was eaten was natural by definition. Under ancestral conditions in the African savanna, where we can all trace our ancestors, drought and famine were common. Under such conditions, preferences for foods that are high in fat and sugar were adaptive, so that ancestral humans could get some fat on their bones to try to survive through the next famine. Today, those same food preferences, which have not had time to evolve out of us, often prove fatal, leading to such adverse health outcomes as Type-II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

2.

As is true with any sexually reproducing species, humans evolved a variety of mating-relevant adaptations including various preferences in mates (see Geher & Kaufman, 2013). Pornography provides a clear example of supernormal stimuli. Men evolved to be attracted to certain qualities in the female body because such led to increases in sexual that ultimately facilitated reproductive success. The porn industry takes these stimuli and ramps them up a notch. Or 100.

While the topic of whether pornography is truly harmful for people or for society is in the midst of hot academic debate, several published studies have found that is a real in terms of our brain’s physiology (see Banca et al., 2016). Further, pornography use seems to be associated with adverse relationship outcomes such as (with those showing higher porn use being more likely to have relationships that end in divorce; Perry & Davis, 2017). From a supernormal stimulus perspective, these outcomes are not surprising.

3. Video Games

Video games represent supernormal stimuli sine qua non. Everything about them takes some facet of our evolved psychology and gives us an overdose of it. We evolved to be task-oriented, because people who were task-oriented got stuff done and were relatively likely to survive and ultimately reproduce as a result. If you were around in the 1980s like I was, you know that Pac Man and Asteroids were all about completing the task. One more game! One more level! I know I can get to the next level, I just know it!

Modern video games such as Fortnite, are, of course, amped up compared to old Pac Man. They often include a social component. They include high risk. They include human coalitions. They sometimes have sexy characters. They have elements that focus on social status. And so forth. Why are our kids so darned addicted to these stupid video games? Because these videogames are hijacking their evolved psychological adaptations.

4. iPhones

Consider yourself lucky if you are truly not addicted to your smartphone. In a recent CNN poll of teens in the US, more than 50% admitted to being addicted to their phones. And we all well know that the other 50% were ! I have to say that I am checking my phone way more than I wish I were these days. These things are so addictive! And tells us why.

As is the case with video games, smartphones have so many things that we evolved to focus on right at our fingertips. 24/7. ? Relationships? Your social status? Your family? Things that make you happy? Things that make you excited? Things that make you surprised? Risky behaviors? We have special evolved psychology regarding all these things. And with smartphones, exaggerated information on all of these is now more accessible than.

5. Your couch

How many hours a week do you think an average American spends sitting on the couch? Many of us have more than one couch in the house. Hey, we try to make our houses comfortable. The word “home,” in fact, is all about the comfort that we experience in our houses. I love my house, so I’m not one to judge. But, under ancestral conditions, before the advent of agriculture and “civilization,” people were not sitting around on their couches. Not by any means!

For the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, exercise was not a choice. Sitting around on the couch all day watching an Impractical Jokers marathon, drinking Pepsie and Sam Adams, and eating chips was not a possibility. Estimates of ancestral exercise patterns, in fact, suggest that traveling more than 20 miles in a day was a regular occurrence (see Platek et al., 2011). Further, as is true with all animals, we evolved to take advantage of opportunities to not expend energy. Under ancestral conditions, chilling out whenever possible and saving up energy for future physical activity was a good idea. In today’s world, where we can easily go a full day that includes walking less than two miles and sitting on comfortable chairs and couches for 10 or so hours, this tendency to rest up whenever the opportunity presents itself is incredibly unhealthy. We’ve made our environments too comfortable! And all the technologies that we have to increase our comfort, including electronic garage doors so that we don’t have to get of our cars, dog doors so that we don’t have to get up to walk the dog, reclining chairs, Netflix, couches that cost thousands of dollars, etc., work against that fact that our bodies evolved to move a lot every single day.

Bottom Line

Beware of technology. Technological “advances” often present some short-term benefit with an unspecified (and often invisible) long-term cost. Companies that make technology are motivated to get people to buy their stuff. They are not too motivated to worry much about potential long-term adverse consequences associated with their products.

The evolutionary framework changes the playing field when it comes to thinking about technology. We need to think about the long-term human consequences of technology. And we also need to ask the question of what evolved psychological adaptation the technology is tapping into. Further, we need to ask whether the technology is somehow exploiting our evolved psychology for corporate gain. There’s something to think about when you go out holiday shopping.

====== 165 ========

FORGET CO-PARENTING WITH A NARCISSIST, ROUND 3

Source: Caroline Hernandez/unsplash

As the writer of Forget Co-Parenting With a Narcissist: Do This Instead, and its Round 2 counterpart, I spend a good amount of time helping weary co-parents navigate high-conflict and contentious plans. As awful as it is to deal with the toxic atmosphere of family court, it is possible to implement emotionally stable habits so you can distance yourself from the drama.

Here are 10 ways to do just that.

1. Emotionally stable co-parents accept that their ex is not going to change and they stop wishing that this person one day wakes up and sees the impact of their frivolous, mean-spirited and sociopathic behaviors. Instead, emotionally stable co-parents recognize they chose a partner who may fit the diagnostic criteria for , borderline disorder or . They educate themselves on these mental conditions to better understand the characterological manifestations.

2. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t complain about their ex. This is not to say they don’t have reason to feel outrage or experience random thoughts of skipping town with the kids, but they accept the game for what it is. They recognize that as adults, we are willing participants in . When we complain, other people may be wondering, ‘Hmmm…didn’t you see the signs when you where ?’ As a psychotherapist, I assure you, there are always signs. I can also confirm, no kid on the couch ever says, “Thank goodness for all the badmouthing my parents did in front of me—that really helped me move forward and learn the basics of healthy relationships.”

3. Emotionally stable co-parents use wisely. They recognize they need to heal first in order to help their kids recover. They grow in their ability to guide their children once they’ve processed why they chose their co-parent in the first place. As my clinical supervisor used to say, “All issues with children are issues in the parent. The connection is not always linear.”

4. Emotionally stable co-parents do not waste time on co-parenting forums because most are not helpful, and more often, used as a platform for emotional vomiting and out-catastrophizing other people’s experiences. Rather, they spend their time and energy on hiring professionals. Emotionally stable co-parents do not write dramatic, autobiographical email or post like-minded commentary, nor do they leave lengthy phone messages expecting free advice. They respect the ethical and legal restrictions of mental health and legal professionals for responding to non-clients.

5. Emotionally stable co-parents recognize that the job of a single parent is a lot easier when kids are held accountable for their behaviors. All children need discipline and guidance. Some may argue that children of divorce need more stability, consistency and accountability due to the erratic and conflicting practices from the other side.

6. Emotionally stable co-parents speak to their kids about divorce in an honest and age-appropriate manner. They recognize that while they may not have the answer to “Why does daddy’s new friend over his house?,” they refrain from angry knee-jerk reactions. When stumped, they reach for books such as Growing Up With Divorce by Neil Kalter, or Divorce Poison by Richard Warshak.

7. Emotionally stable parents accept the tall order known as “bad parenting.” This may look like feeding him donuts and chocolate milk for breakfast, to off all her hair one weekend just because, or criticizing you for grounding him when he told the football coach to "Go to hell." Because what’s the alternative? Spend $300 in attorney fees to hear that your issue isn’t ‘bad enough’ to file a motion in court?

8. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t blame judges, attorneys, mediators, and therapists for their situation. This is not to say the family court system isn’t largely broken, and in need of reform. But it is what it is, and none of its players are directly at fault when your ex doesn’t comply with the court order. Mentally stable co-parents view court as a place to be avoided for all non-emergency matters.

9. Emotionally stable co-parents teach their kids to be independent thinkers by inspiring them to question events that don’t make sense and to listen to their gut. If their co-parent tells them not to trust someone, they are encouraged to look for an alternative explanation.

10. Emotionally stable co-parents rise above the chaos and focus on nurturing their child’s mental and emotional well-being. They go to therapy, work their calm plan, relaxation routine and mindfulness practices daily so they can parent with love, warmth, safety and presence.

Even when the other parent does the opposite.

To learn more about co-parenting strategies, click here for information about my online course, Co-Parenting Without Chaos.

Copyright 2018 Linda Esposito, LCSW. All Rights Reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the author.

====== 166 ========

IT'S HOW YOU DO IT THAT MATTERS FOR RELATIONAL SATISFACTION

Nearly everyone understands the importance of being grateful. And during this time of year there tends to be a marked emphasis on the positive impact that has on our lives. This focus is especially powerful since being grateful for our blessings – like our , family, and significant other or spouse – is associated with greater individual well-being.

And gratitude may be one of the most important positive emotions to cultivate for thriving as well, according to research.

However, feeling grateful alone is not enough for relational satisfaction. It’s acting upon these feelings that matter. We need to express our gratitude to our partner. After all, our partner is not a mind reader. We need to tell them how we feel about them.

Sadly, many people do not feel that their partners appreciate them. Many relationships fall apart not due to one big problem but rather a lot of little things that add up over time. Perhaps repeatedly feeling overlooked, unacknowledged, or taken advantage of, for example.

We need to make it a habit to express our appreciation to our partner.

In our book, Happy Together: Using the Science of to Build Love That Lasts, we recount the story of “Tonya”and “Marco,” whose collapsed after twenty-plus years of marriage. As we mentioned in a previous post, Tonya did not feel appreciated by Marco. She could only recall two times in their entire marriage where Marco expressed his appreciation for her. She said he rarely expressed his gratitude to her which caused her to wither over the years. Eventually, she left, to the utter surprise of Marco who didn’t understand what he did. It’s actually what he didn’t do that she felt caused their relationship to unravel.

We can’t overemphasize the importance of expressing gratitude to our loved ones for relational satisfaction and longevity. In fact, expressing gratitude has been found to be important for both partners, the giver and the receiver. In one study, couples who expressed gratitude well to one another were as half as likely to break up six months later. Gratitude was found to serve as an emotional glue in that it makes a partner feel “cared for, understood, and validated.”

Source: Pexels

However, for optimal relationship satisfaction, it’s not just if you do it, but how you do it that matters, according to research.

Gratitude can serve as a relational booster shot if the gratitude is expressed well, in that it is “other” focused, rather than “self” focused. In other words, focusing on praising your partner and his or her qualities and actions rather than the benefit to yourself.

For example, if your partner has been especially helpful around the house lately or roasted and carved the holiday turkey, you might automatically react by saying, “Thank you. You really helped me out.” Or “Yummy! You know how much I love turkey.”

While these remarks aren’t bad, of course – after all, you are acknowledging your partner and could be worse off by not saying anything at all – you could do much better by shifting the focus from yourself to your partner. Instead, try responding with something like:

"Thank you. I really appreciate your thoughtfulness in tidying up our home. It’s this thoughtfulness that I see in you time and time again that makes you such a special person.”

“I really appreciate your to detail and the care you took in making the turkey. Your patience is remarkable! Whether working with your students or interacting with our son, these qualities are such a beautiful part of who you are.”

So think of a recent time you thanked a loved one. Reflect for a moment on your expression of gratitude. Next, ask yourself these two questions:

Did you focus on the other person, or the self?

If you focused on the self, how could you reframe that?

Giving good gratitude is a skill that can be learned. Expressing it well and practicing it regularly will help boost your individual and relational .

====== 167 ========

SUZIE PILEGGI PAWELSKI, MAPP AND JAMES PAWELSKI, PH.D.

Suzann (“Suzie”) Pileggi Pawelski, MAPP, is a freelance writer and well-being consultant specializing in the science of happiness and its effects on relationships and health. Her 2010 Scientific American Mind cover story, “The Happy Couple” was the catalyst for the book Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love that Lasts that she co-wrote with her husband, James. Together, they give Romance and Research (TM) workshops around the world. She is a contributing editor for Live Happy and writes the “Science of Well-being” column for the national magazine. As a columnist for the Newsletter of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), she profiled many of the field’s leading scientists and featured their groundbreaking research in the publication. Previously, she directed award-winning media relations campaigns in New York City for Fortune 500 clients. Earlier in her career, she worked in publicity at Radio City Music Hall and as an associate producer for The Joan Rivers Show, where she featured leading health and medical authors on the Emmy Award-winning program. She has a Master of Applied Positive Psychology degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

James Pawelski, Ph.D., is the Director of Education and a Senior Scholar in the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, where he co-founded the Master of Applied Positive Psychology Program with Martin Seligman. He is a recipient of Penn’s Liberal and Professional Studies Award for Distinguished Teaching in Professional Graduate Programs. The Founding Executive Director of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), and a member of the Advisory Board of the International Positive Education Network (IPEN), he is currently leading a three-year, multi-million-dollar grant investigating connections between the science of well-being and the arts and humanities. Having earned a Ph.D. in philosophy, he is the author of The Dynamic Individualism of William James, and co-editor of The Eudaimonic Turn: Well-Being in Literary Studies and On Human Flourishing: A Poetry Anthology. An international keynote speaker, he has presented in more than 20 countries on six continents, including Romance and Research (TM) workshops with his wife, Suzie. He is a recipient of the Practice Excellence Award from the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the Humanitarian Innovation Award for the Humanities, Arts, and Culture from the Humanities Innovation Forum at the United Nations. He is frequently featured in the media, including the New York Times, U.S. News and World Report, Philadelphia Inquirer, and The Today Show.

====== 168 ========

HOW MUCH SLEEP DO SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN NEED?

Source: Pixabay Free Images

The question of how much children need is one that is not easy to answer. Professional organizations have recommended guidelines which include ranges for different age groups. For example, the National Sleep Foundation suggests that school-age children 6-to-13 years old should get 9-to-11 hours of sleep each night. But the basis for establishing those guidelines is unclear. It is a more difficult question to answer than one might expect, and it is similar to asking how much exercise children need or what nutritional needs they have. Complicating the question is that individual differences exist for children at any one age.

Children of all ages, but especially adolescents, seem to be getting less sleep than they need. The movement to have middle and high school start times later is based on the assumption that doing so will afford adolescents the opportunity to get more morning sleep, and also that they will actually get more sleep by not staying up even later at night.

Most school districts where later start times for teens have been considered or implemented, have set earlier start times for elementary school children, with the assumption that their sleep needs will not be compromised. With only a few exceptions, that assumption has received very little study.

One method for estimating how much sleep a child needs is to observe how much they sleep when there are no or few constraints on when they go to bed and wake up. Since the school week schedule dictates that wake times are around the same time each day, are responsible for making sure their children go to bed early enough to get sufficient sleep. But during school breaks, especially during summer months when most schools are not in session, bedtimes and wake times can be more flexible. These breaks create opportunities to determine how much sleep children might need.

A paper just published in the journal Sleep by a of researchers at the University of South Carolina reports a study that includes measurements of sleep during two school breaks – one of a week duration, and one of three weeks duration which were then compared to how much they slept when school was in session. Children (N=154) were between 5 and 9 years old (mean = 7). Sleep was measured objectively using Fitbits.

For both the one- and three-week breaks, children showed increased sleep time and later wake times. On a one-week break they slept 38 minutes more and woke up 35 minutes later than when school was in session. During the three-week break they slept 25 minutes more and woke up 46 minutes later. When school was in session, their sleep far less than even the lower end of the recommended range (7 hours, 18 minutes vs. 9 hours). They were getting more sleep during the one week break (8 hours, 12 minutes) and the three week break (7 hours, 48 minutes), but those durations were still short of 9 hours. Longer sleep times during breaks is a good estimate of how much sleep children of this age need. "Natural" wake times of 35-46 minutes later than when school is in session suggests that starting school an hour later — no earlier than 8:30 as is being recommended by professional organizations — is probably a good idea for all children, not just adolescents.

====== 169 ========

TWO LEADER BEHAVIORS THAT REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE

One of the most consistent research findings of the past century suggests that there are two types of leader behaviors that are associated with effective : Task-focused and relationship-focused behaviors.

Just after World War II leadership researchers from Ohio State University and the University of Michigan discovered two types of leader behaviors that were consistently related to effective leadership.

The first were task-focused behaviors. These are behaviors that put structure into the work setting – creating operating procedures, focusing on measuring outcomes, making important decisions, and the like.

The second category of effective leader behaviors focuses on the followers and the relationship between leaders and followers. These include showing concern for followers’ feelings and needs, showing appreciation, giving them a voice in , and bolstering their .

Research over the next 70 years has consistently shown that these two broad categories of leader behaviors are important. So, what is the implication for leaders and their effectiveness?

Leaders should do a self-assessment and note how often their behaviors focus primarily on the task and the incidence of their relationship-oriented behaviors. Research by Fred Fiedler and others suggests that leaders may prefer one over the other – becoming almost preoccupied with getting the task done, or alternatively, with building the leader-follower relationship. For example, if a leader’s self-assessment suggests that he or she is over-emphasizing task-oriented behaviors, then balance may be needed by making sure to also focus on the with members. Over-focusing on relationships can lead to a lack of structure with can reduce the team’s efficiency and output.

Sometimes, simple research results (and those that seem to be almost common-sense) are important because they give us insight into our patterns of behavior in the . The best leaders realize that they can always improve. They reflect on what they are doing well, and on their shortcomings and they strive to constantly get better.

Follow me at twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 170 ========

SEX HELPS INITIATE RELATIONSHIPS WITH POTENTIAL PARTNERS

Sexual desire evolved to serve as a powerful motivational force that brings potential romantic partners together initially and thereby helps to facilitate sexual intercourse and . As such, sexual acts may be devoid of affectional bonding, as in the case of one-night stands. And yet, sexual desire may play a major role not only in attracting potential partners to each other but also in encouraging the formation of an between them.

Nevertheless, thus far it has been unclear whether desire motivates merely reproductive acts, with attachment between partners developing independently, or whether desire directly contributes to the building of an emotional bond between newly acquainted partners. Indeed, although sexual urges and emotional attachments are not necessarily connected with each other, evolutionary and social processes may have rendered humans particularly likely to become romantically attached to partners to whom they are sexually attracted1.

Source: Hugh Douglas Hamilton/Wikimedia Commons

Research published recently in the Journal of Social and Personal 2 has provided support for the latter option. In four studies, my colleagues and I demonstrate that sexual desire elicits behaviors that can facilitate emotional bonding during face-to-face encounters with a new opposite- acquaintance.

In Study 1, we examined whether desire for a new acquaintance would be associated with enactment of non-verbal immediacy behaviors that indicate contact readiness (e.g., synchronization, close physical proximity, frequent eye contact). To do so, participants took part in a lip-sync performance in which they and an attractive opposite-sex confederate mimed together to pre-recorded music (without actually singing) while being videotaped. Participants then rated their desire for the confederate. Judges rated the extent to which participants enacted immediacy behaviors toward the confederates and were behaviorally synchronized with them. We found that participant's desire for the confederate was associated with coded immediacy behaviors toward the confederate as well as with synchronization as perceived by participants, confederates, and raters.

In Study 2, we sought to replicate the findings of Study 1 with a different methodology that requires more intimate coordination (slow-dance rather than lip-sync performance) and is thus more relevant to romantic contexts. We also wished to extend Study 1 by adding a measure of interest in future interactions with potential partners. For this purpose, participants slow-danced with an opposite-sex confederate and then rated their sexual desire for the confederate, the extent to which they were synchronized with each other, and their interest in seeing the confederate again. The results showed that participant's desire for the confederates was associated with being synchronized with them, which in turn, predicted greater interest in them.

Studies 3 and 4 were designed to establish a causal connection between activation of the sexual system and non-sexual behaviors (provision of responsiveness and help, respectively) that are not only strategically employed to initiate relationships with potential partners but also play a key role in supporting long-term bonding3.

In Study 3, participants were subliminally exposed to sexual stimuli (versus neutral stimuli). Specifically, participants were asked to indicate their food, clothing, and location preferences for a date by choosing one of two options from each of seven categories (e.g., color of clothes: black or blue; location: bar or restaurant). Before each pair of options, participants were exposed to either a sexual (an attractive naked, reclining man shown from the groin up for female participants; an attractive, naked, kneeling woman photographed from behind for male participants) or a neutral prime, which was presented subliminally.

Then, participants discussed several interpersonal dilemmas (e.g., “Are you for or against playing ‘hard to get’ at the start of a relationship?”) with an opposite-sex participant whom they did not know while being videotaped. Judges rated the extent to which participants engaged in behaviors that conveyed responsiveness and caring to the confederate during the interactions. The findings revealed that participants were more responsive to the other participant in the sexual condition than in the control condition.

In Study 4, we sought to activate the sexual system in a more ecologically valid manner, investigating how sexual stimuli in real-life settings (watching videos) affect engagement in other approach behavior (i.e., helping behaviors) that may facilitate relationship initiation more actively than the provision of responsiveness. In particular, participants watched either an erotic (but not pornographic) video or a neutral video. After watching the video, participants were led to believe that in the next 5 minutes they and another participant would complete a questionnaire assessing their verbal reasoning. The experimenter then introduced an attractive opposite-sex confederate to the participants, seated them next to each other, told both that they were allowed to speak with each other while completing the questionnaire, and left the room.

When the confederate ostensibly got to the third question, he or she turned to the participants and asked their help in solving that question, uttering, "I'm stuck with this question. Could you please help me in solving it?" Participants' helping behaviors toward the confederate were recorded, using the following measures: (a) the time elapsed until participants started providing help to the confederate; (b) the actual time spent helping to solve the needed question; both were measured using a stopwatch hidden in the confederates' pocket; and (c) the quality of the given help, as assessed by the confederate following this session. The findings indicated that participants were quicker to help as well as invested more time and effort in providing help to the confederate in the sexual priming condition than in the control condition.

Overall, our research demonstrates that even a nonconscious sexual stimulus can elicit verbal and non-verbal behaviors that not only convey contact readiness but also express caring about a partner's well-being. By doing so, our research suggests that when two strangers meet, sexual desire experienced by one or both of them may initiate a cascade of behaviors that signal their interest in further interaction as well as their willingness to invest in a potential relationship. Such behaviors help set the stage for deepening the emotional connection between them. To be sure, whereas intense desire may attract new partners to each other, the behaviors it engenders are those that support long-term bonding.

This post also appeared here.

====== 171 ========

6 SIGNS HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU

"He's just not that into you."

I know you hate this phrase. I hate it more. Mostly, because it's true-- even when we are living in complete denial about it. Sorry, but if he's not calling you, it's not because all of his fingers were chopped off in a freak text messaging accident or he's in a coma somewhere. It's because he doesn't like you or doesn't like you enough to call you.

You have to be aware that even though you may be enjoying an LSD-like love high, your new significant other may be feeling something entirely different.

Oftentimes, I get asked about red flags in and . From personal experience and those of so many ladies I know, I have compiled a few warning signals to watch out for and how to deal with them. As always, there are exceptions but I am never the exception, and probably, neither are you.

1. He talks about his ex frequently. It's fine to bring up the ex once in a while under very neutral contexts, e.g., "My ex has the kids this week." But talking incessantly about prior relationships is tacky and might also imply that there are still some unresolved issues lingering in his head, whether it's , resentment or doubt. This rule applies to you too. Do not mention your previous love life and its contents, including: pet names, restraining orders or penis size.

Relationship therapist Dr. Turndorf suggests, if he mentions the ex and it bothers you, speak up and say something: "The effective way of handling this is to ask him if he knows how he feels when he brings up the subject of his ex? Does he feel hurt? Does he feel angry?" If his problems persist, keep in mind that you don't have to.

In the beginning of a relationship, each party should ideally have a clean slate and be on their best behavior, instead of showcasing their baggage like a badge of honor.

2. He tells you he's not ready for a relationship. I can't believe how many times I've heard women dismiss this statement and continue pursuing unavailable men. These guys will flat out tell you that they don't want to commit to you, but here you are, baking them cookies, enjoying naked sleepovers and gushing to all your girlfriends about what a catch he is. Because, "once he sees how great you are,

he will surely commit.

If this is you, please find someone to slap you back into reality. The truth is-- he doesn't want a relationship (it's the same as not being ready for one), even with someone as delightful and wonderful as you. And you shouldn't waste your time trying to convince him otherwise, because his mind is already set. Bake cookies for someone who cares about you--like that friend who slaps you into back into reality (and not the one who tells you that he'll come around, eventually.)

I've been in this situation before, waiting it out like an idiot. Needless to say, I have yet to see a ring on it.

3. He wants to get into a relationship immediately. Refusing to commit to you is not a good thing, but neither is moving into a relationship at lightning speed. Relax, you aren't Benjamin Button-- you don't have five minutes to fall in love and have babies. If your man tells you he loves you or wants to commit to you during or shortly after the first date, something is up. (Unless of course, you do too, and it's love at first sight for both of you.)

I actually know a guy who asked a girl to be his girlfriend during the first date, then broke up with her two weeks later, because he realized that she was "boring." Well, duh. I'm surprised he even knew anything beyond her first name at that point. Relationships can only succeed when there is a foundation to base it upon, such as common interests and experiences. Just because you both order the Caesar salad, doesn't make you compatible.

Similarly, relationship expert and author Lynn Harris advises against premature "I love yous": "The first time you feel like saying it, count to ten, go home and say it to your cat." You don't want to mistake love for a really romantic evening or a great night in bed.

4. He still hasn't asked you out. This should be a given, but I can't tell you how many times I've heard people texting or g-chatting for months and months before any attempt at physical contact is made. If you're seeking mild or a virtual relationship, texting is fine-but if you want something more, then he needs to make a move in real life. If you're at a point where you don't want to wait anymore, stop waiting. You shouldn't have to force someone to ask you out.

5. He doesn't let you go near his phone. This is also a given, in my opinion. But I have firsthand witnessed relationships in which phones are private property, locked and guarded with military-like defense systems. If your partner has issues about letting you see his phone, then chances are, he's hiding something sketchy. The mere fact that he turns all Charlie Sheen on you the moment you go near it should be a big clue. I'm not saying that couples need to share passwords or answer each other's phones, but you shouldn't ever feel like he's keeping something important from you either. If you feel weird about something, tell him. Maybe he's got a great excuse, like he's in the CIA or running from the mob. It's way better than finding those naked pictures of his ex later on.

6. He doesn't give you butterflies. He may have a great , a nice apartment with hardwood floors, a humanitarian heart and killer abs, but if he doesn't make your heart all warm and fuzzy, he's not it.

Chemistry isn't instant-- sometimes, it can be discovered gradually, like in these situations. But, after a certain point, you will know if that spark is missing. And if that's the case, be gentle and kind. After all, wouldn't you want to be let down just as easy if someone just wasn't that into you?

Follow me on : ThisJenKim

Want to know when I write a new post? Sign up here.

====== 172 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY UK

A few days ago Italian dog trainer Debora Segna contacted me about a posting by veterinarian and philosopher Dr. Roberto Marchesini in which he wrote, “If my dog would growl at me during an interaction, not a playful growl during a playing interaction, but a warning and threatening growl, I would question the relationship I have built. For me it wouldn't be a simple demand, but rather my failure. Obviously I am not talking about adopted adult dogs, with several problems you need to work on. In my life I have had countless dogs and the ones I had since when they were puppies never growled at me. The ones I get from shelters sometimes did in the first times but eventually gave up. I see a tendency to underestimate a behaviour that is always a warning light of a dysfunctional relationship.” (Translated by Fabrizio Giammatteo.) So, according to Dr. Marchesini, growling outside of play is unacceptable in interactions between a dog and their human companion. (See Note 1 for the original Italian post. This essay titled PERCHÉ I CANI RINGHIANO is available in Italian.)

Growling is a complex behavior/vocalization and I don't see it as indicating a failed or dysfunctional relationship. Dogs are vocal animals, and most of us have heard a variety of canine sounds, from growls to barks, whines, and whimpers. But how good are we at determining the emotional state of a dog when she or he is growling? A new and very important study by Hungarian researchers T. Faragó, N. Takács, Á. Miklósi, and P. Pongrácz called "Dog growls express various contextual and affective content for human listeners" shows we're pretty good at assigning context and emotional state to different growls, and that women are better than men at doing so. For a discussion of this important study see "Dogs Growl Honestly and Women Understand Better Than Men."

I can well understand why a dog would growl or otherwise tell a human that they don't like something that they are doing or are otherwise uncomfortable. Simply put, they're annoyed. A growl does not always mean that a dog will attack a human or necessarily do anything more than vocalize what they're feeling. It is a way for them to say something like "Back off, this is my ball or my food and I don't want to share it with you" or "I'm and I would appreciate it if you wouldn't disturb me." In fact, we should welcome this sort of response so that we know that there are clear boundaries about what the dog would like you to do.

When a dog is vocalizing, we also need to pay careful to their -- where their tail and ears are as well as their posture or gait, for example, because dogs often communicate using what ethologists call "composite signals" that contain information from different sensory modalities. Composite signals also may contain more information than signals in a single sensory modality. (See "Do Dogs Recognize 'Dog' and What They're Feeling From Afar?" and Unleashing Your Dog: A Field Guide to Giving Your Canine Companion the Best Life Possible.)

I don't agree when Dr. Marchesini writes that growling is "always a warning light of a dysfunctional relationship.” (My emphasis) In many ways, growling is indicative of an on-going relationship in which a dog is telling a human what they want and need and a mutual and respectful relationship requires reciprocal and respect. This is not to say that growling is necessarily welcomed, but rather to say that growling can be a nuanced signal and communicate subtle messages that are all part of a healthy relationship.

When growling is part of a composite signal, it can be more difficult to assess what a dog is trying to communicate. For example, when growling takes place during playful tug-of-war and a dog is vocalizing and expressing other behavior patterns, it's not necessarily because two dogs or a dog and a human are competing with one another. (See "What's Happening When Dogs Play Tug-of-War? Dog Park Chatter.") They can just be having fun. Concerning tug-of-war, in her book called Play with Your Dog, dog trainer Pat Miller wrote, “Tug to your hearts’ content,” and don't worry if your dog growls. It's all “part of the game,” and if the dog's other behaviors are appropriate, “let him growl his heart out!” I agree, and I also feel the same when a person engages in rough-and-tumble play with a dog and the human is sure that the dog enjoys it and that it remains a playful interaction. Getting down and dirty with a dog is an incredibly special time filled with frivolity and unbounded joy as long as it's on the dog's terms. (See "Get Down and Dirty With Your Dog: Bow, Hug, and Tug.")

It's essential for people to learn to speak Dog

It's essential for people to become fluent in dog -- dog literate -- so that they can understand what a dog is communicating when they perform a specific behavior patterns or utter a particular sound. As I emphasize in Canine Confidential: Why Dogs Do What They Do (to be published in Italian in early 2019 with the title Nella mente e nel cuore dei cani: Vita emotiva e comportamento del vostro migliore amico), if humans are good at understanding what dogs are saying and feeling when they're growling, it could help us better understand what they're doing or likely to do in a given situation. As University of Sussex (UK) animal communication expert Holly Root-Gutteridge notes in her summary of the above study by the Hungarian researchers, "Learning about these differences may help in reducing dog aggression towards humans, as well as improving dogs’ behavior, as we understand better when a threat is real versus playful.”

When a dog growls, it's a good time to reassess the dog <--> human relationship

"My Labrador growls when she runs out of words. She is not mean, or threatening." (email to me in response to this essay) "My Barney always growled playing tug-of-war, and also when he's down sleeping and I give him a kiss, he gives me a light growl to say, leave me alone and let me sleep!" (email to me in response to this essay)

When a dog growls, it's a good time to reassess the relationship a person has with their dog(s) and to come to an understanding of why the dog growls in certain situations. It's surely not the time to punish a dog for "something they should never do" or for "something their human doesn't like" because often it's the only way a dog can set boundaries. I'm not saying that Dr. Marchesini suggests that dogs should be punished for growling outside of play (or when they growl during play, something I've witnessed), but rather, I'm suggesting that when a dog growls outside of play there's likely a very good reason they're doing this and it's time for a human to figure out why and to come up with a solution that reduces growling to a bare minimum and hopefully gets rid of it altogether. There's also a good lesson here for a dog to inform a human about what they like and dislike and for the human to let other people also know this.

One of the dogs I rescued years ago growled when another dog or a person, including myself, came near him when he was eating or playing with food. I was able to teach him not to growl on most occasions especially when I was the human intruding on "his food," and his growls became less intense and, on occasion, almost inaudible. I also came to realize that most likely, because of how he was treated (or mistreated) when he was young and on his own and had to find and defend food before he went to the local humane society and I brought him home, growling was his way of saying "Please leave me alone" or "This is my food and I need it." He never did anything more than growl, and I would tell other people to leave him alone when he was around food. That worked very well -- there never was any aggression and all he did was growl a few times and then stop -- and other dogs learned very rapidly also to leave him alone when he was around his food. We did not have a failed relationship, but rather a very deep and enduring for many years. Another dog I rescued didn't like people to touch his front feet, so, once again, I honored that and told other people not to try to touch his front feet. There never was a problem, even if he growled to show how he felt about it. I've heard numerous similar stories from many people about the situations in which their otherwise friendly dog would occasionally growl and there was no problem at all.

Decoding what dogs are saying and feeling—accurately reading their moods—is necessary if we're to live harmoniously together. It's also essential so that dog <-> -dog and dog-<--> human encounters will be as amiable as they can be. It also is essential that we view each and every dog as the individual they are; no two dogs are the same and there is no being called "the dog." (See "Let's Give Dogs a Break by Distinguishing Myths From Facts" and links therein.) Dogs, even young siblings, show incredible individual variation and explanations of behavior patterns that might work for one, two, or even 10 dogs, but might not work for many others. One of the most exciting aspects of studying dogs centers on their marked differences in behavior, personalities, and how they adjust to living in a human-dominated world. And, it's their individual variability and differences in the varying situations in which they're studied that's often responsible for differences in the results from experiments that focus on similar questions.

I very much appreciate what Dr. Marchesini wrote because it is a good catalyst for beginning much needed discussions of growling, other types of dog behavior, and dog <--> human interactions. However, once again, it's important to that growling is not always a threat and we need to study in detail the context in which it's performed, what else the dog is doing -- for example, is growling part of a composite signal -- and the individuals who are involved.

The more we understand dog behavior the better it will be for the dogs themselves, other dogs, and humans -- a win-win for all. All we have to do is pay careful attention to what dogs are telling us. It's really a lot of fun to become dog literate and to get to know the amazing beings with whom we share our homes and our hearts. I look forward to writing about the latest research and ideas about dog behavior and dog <--> human interactions in future essays.

Note 1: Dr. Roberto Marchesini's original Facebook post:

“Se il mio cane mi ringhiasse in una qualche interazione con lui, che non fosse il ringhio scherzoso del gioco ma un ringhio di avvertimento minaccioso, mi porrei delle domande sul rapporto che ho costruito. Non lo vedrei come una semplice rivendicazione ma come un mio fallimento. Ovvio, non parlo di cani adottati già adulti e con mille problemi, dove occorre lavorare. Ma nella mia vita ho avuto tantissimi cani e quelli tirati su fin da cuccioli non mi hanno mai ringhiato. Quelli presi dal canile magari i primi tempi lo hanno fatto, ma poi hanno smesso. Vedo che c’è in giro la tendenza a sottovalutare un comportamento che viceversa è sempre una spia di un disagio di relazione.” (Translated by Fabrizio Giammatteo.)

====== 173 ========

SCHIZOPHRENIA AND HALLUCINATIONS

Source: Pixabay

I was sitting on a park bench on my former university campus on January 28, 2006 when my hallucinations began. I began to hear a chorus of children’s voices very far away. They told me I was a “homeless hoodlum” a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times, again and again in my mind. It was like a painful stimulus.

Then the voices changed, and complimented me on achieving a perfect score on my SAT college entrance exam. It is true that during high school I had scored high marks, but in reality, I had fallen short of perfect. They told me that I was fluent in Chinese, but in reality, I had only an elementary proficiency.

Then the voices began to confirm my delusions. They spoke about my future husband who they said was handsome, wealthy, powerful, and eagerly waiting to meet me. They said I would meet him after my required period of homelessness had miraculously ended, which they affirmed it would.

I expected that one night an airplane might land near the churchyard where I was every night, pick me up, and take me to another city or perhaps another country. I would begin a new life as the next Mother Teresa, and the wife of the man of my .

In my mind, the voices of a little boy and a little girl who were part of the choir I was hearing became more distinct. Months later, I would begin to hear the voice of my future husband, assuring me that he was coming soon.

In late January 2006 after the voices initially began I was taking a shower at a friend’s house. Suddenly I heard three men making rude and insulting comments. I knew they could see me because of their specific remarks. I stepped out of the shower to see the three men through the bathroom window and realized there was no window. I looked for a sunroof, but there was none. After a few minutes I realized no one could see me and there were no men.

I lived in a world of delusions and hallucinations which became more severe in the following weeks and months. One day, I saw the name of the college library where I spent much of my time had been changed by one letter. Weeks later, I looked into a mirror and saw an alarming version of my face morphed together with the cartoon character Lisa Simpson.

When I tried to read books, I noticed that words were underlined once, twice or three times. I found this incredibly distracting. I remember picking up other books only to find the same bizarre and unpredictable patterns of underlining. In about two months’ time I no longer knew what day it was. I could no longer check the date on a newspaper without hallucinating.

On a Wednesday night in 2006 I believed it was one week before Thanksgiving. However, during a conversation I discovered that the holiday would be the next day. I had become disoriented and detached from reality.

Through all of this, I strongly resolved to never mention the voices and the imaginary images I saw with any other person. I told myself that everyone else refrained from speaking about the things they saw and heard so I would too. I convinced myself that hallucinations were normal and common.

Eventually I was picked up by police for screaming back at the voices and transported to a ward, but I firmly believed I was not mentally ill. My strong resolve to keep my experiences a secret remained unchanged. Even though I clung to my belief that I was not hearing voices, I was diagnosed as totally and permanently disabled due to schizophrenia. That was it. It seemed my life was done.

Fortunately, today, there is even hope for people with the most severe and treatment resistant forms of schizophrenia. Initially, during my recovery experience, I endured twelve months of uncomfortable side effects trying many medications which offered me little relief from my symptoms. It can be challenging to find just the right to effectively address the specific needs of each individual, but it is crucial to not give up trying.

After twelve months, my new doctor prescribed an underutilized medication. Over time, my hallucinations disappeared, and I regained a quiet mind. As my recovery progressed I was able to return to college. Two years later I earned my degree in molecular biology and graduated with honors.

I would encourage my readers to never give up on any person, even if they have an experience like mine, resulting from a severe form of mental illness. Today, there is more hope than ever before thanks to newer treatments and medications.

In 2018, I am celebrating ten years in full recovery from severe schizophrenia.

====== 174 ========

WILDFIRES, HURRICANES, FLOODS, MUDSLIDES... TESTS OF FAITH?

“When you are dealing with questions too large for you [and] which, nevertheless, will not leave you alone, you are obliged to house them somewhere – and an old wall helps.”

-- from Archibald MacLeish, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, in the Foreword to the published version of his verse play J.B.

To grapple with those large questions that would not leave him alone, that haunted him, MacLeish chose an “ancient structure” – the Book of Job.

The story of Job can be found memorialized in an ancient fable (folk tale), ancient verse, and, of course, in the Hebrew Bible and in Scripture. It was reimagined, reconstructed, in MacLeish’s J.B., which is a play within a play, framed by a duel of egos; and inhabited by two sufferers and three comforters.

Given all the devastation experienced by thousands as a result of natural (and, perhaps, unnatural?) disasters, in 2018 alone, and given all the losses of life and property that have had to be absorbed, a sufferer might wonder, “Why me and mine?” Those spared might thankfully wonder, “Why not me and mine?”

Why does extreme loss and suffering come to some, and not others?

How much could we endure, how might we be? How much faith in the “rightness” of the world might we hold on to?

The playwright explained his play

MacLeish’s Foreword helped me grasp the dueling personalities that confounded my initial reading of his play, and my second reading. The Foreword (written as “a Trespass on a Monument”) explains that J.B. is “put in motion by two broken-down actors” who believe that they are to enact the Book of Job.

From a variety of reviews and commentaries, I finally surmised that, presumably to make a living, the broken-down actors have taken jobs with a traveling circus. One, a balloon-hawker imagines that he is to play the role of God, and assumes that role by putting on a God-mask. The other, a popcorn-vendor, reluctantly agrees to play the role of the devil, and does so whenever he puts on the leering red mask of Satan. When masked, these two actors challenge each other in a battle of egos, for the purpose of challenging Job’s steadfastness – his faith that God rewards good and only punishes when there is wrongdoing.

MacLeish provided this guidance: “Job’s search, like ours, was for the meaning of his afflictions – the loss of his children, the loss of everything he possessed, the loss of his wife’s kindness, who turned upon him in his agony with those ineradicable words, surely the most dreadful ever spoken by wife to husband: ‘Curse God and die!….'

“Job was, by witness of God himself, and twice repeated, ‘a perfect and upright man’ [who feared God and eschewed evil] and his destruction was, by the same unquestionable authority, ‘without cause….'

“My hero, called J.B. after the current fashion in business address, bears little relation to that ancient owner of camels, oxen, and sheep. He is not a particularly devout man. But he is, at the beginning of the play, prosperous, powerful, possessed of a lovely wife, fine children – everything the heart of a man can desire.”

MacLeish tells us that J.B. is aware – “as he could hardly help being” – that God has favored him. Like Job of the Bible, J.B. is not prepared for the “sudden and inexplicable loss of everything.” He is desperate to know the reason for his losses and his wretchedness.

Giving voice to God and the devil via “a stunning device”

In his December 30, 1958 New York Herald Tribune review, Walter Kerr advised his readers that “J.B. takes place under the dark and billowing canvas of an empty circus tent, where a balloon-man and a popcorn-peddler have decided to play God and the devil, respectively, while a band of unidentified mummers re-enacts the story of Job.”

The review informed readers that the pompous brimming-with- balloon-man (played by Raymond Massey, “immensely dignified in a trim white beard”) assumed the role of God. Needing a foil, he has to coax the popcorn-peddler to take on the role of the devil.

The hawker with the tray of unsold popcorn does not relish the idea of playing the devil. But the popcorn-peddler (“performed with brilliant mockery by Christopher Plummer”) shrugs and murmurs, “Well, it’s a demanding role.” Almost immediately upon slipping on a glowing red, leering mask, which features a sneering lip, the popcorn-peddler warms to the role. The review informed readers that the moment he slips on the mask, “he discovers that the mask has its own life, that it speaks through him and for him; that, in fact, he cannot silence it.”

With that review I began to grasp the role-playing assignments of the play within a play. However, by my reading, the devil becomes increasing compassionate as the God character insists on dealing J.B. misfortune upon misfortune; tragedy upon tragedy; unbearable afflictions; ultimate suffering and utter despair.

Why is J.B. being tested so severely?

Reconstructing a “thorny” Biblical story

A few weeks following the play being announced as the year’s winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, Life magazine devoted a lengthy article to MacLeish’s “monumental achievement which parallels the Bible’s thorny story of Job.”

In that May 18, 1959 issue of Life, readers were informed that “After declaring his faith in God’s justice, J.B. is beset by senseless disasters.” As if those unwarranted tragedies aren’t sufficient, the God character feels emboldened to visit still more afflictions and torments – to further test J.B.’s willingness to accept the God character’s ways. The devil is certain that these additional torments and physical afflictions will destroy J.B.’s faith in God. The latter believes that J.B. will accept these sufferings as his fate, and affirm his faith.

According to Life, J.B. “comes to realize that his repentance is for sins he has not committed and thus he recognizes that God does not operate by the laws of human justice.”

The play’s appeal: An exegesis on “shit happens”? or, is it ordained?

The play is not set in any specific time or place on Earth, thus its performances and favorable reception around the world.

Though the play’s initial conversations are set in or around an earthbound circus tent, what transpires between the God-mask and the Satan-mask seems to be on a different plane from that of the Earth – somewhere above or below any identifiable terra firma.

The play has us consider whether virtue is indeed its own reward – the only reward that may be reasonably expected. The play has us ponder whether misfortune, calamity, and catastrophe are ordained, or whether “shit just happens” to good people regardless of their goodness.

There’s also the cause-and-effect conundrum: Did Job’s (the prosperous businessman’s) self-assured piety arise from his desire to express for all his prosperity? Was he pious out of uncertainty, or from of losing his good fortune? Or did genuine pre-prosperity piety earn him his initial prosperity?

In the play, following declarations of faith and thanks at the family's Thanksgiving dinner table, J.B. is, as the devil labels him, the perfect pigeon for what we are meant to judge as unwarranted, unjust and cruel tests of faith.

Is the devil proposing one harassment after another, as a challenge to God’s certainty, God’s faith in Job? Or, are the afflictions God’s answers to the devil’s doubts about Job’s tolerance and endurance? I am not clear as to which player instigated the power play.

What is a mere mortal’s relationship with God and what might a mere mortal reasonably expect of and from God? What are God’s commitments and obligations to mere mortals, if any?

Job (a/k/a "J.B.") and Sarah’s “let’s make a deal”

At their Thanksgiving table, Job’s wife pronounces “Grace,” which she tells her children is “for the .”

Mouth and meat by grace amazed

God upon my lips is praised….

But Sarah worries that they have too much of a good thing:

God doesn’t give all this for nothing….

If we do our part, He does His….

I get frightened, Job… we have so much.

In reply, J.B. assures her,

Not for a watch-tick have I doubted

God was on my side – was helping me….

People call it luck….

It isn’t luck when God is good to you….

With an ominous prescience, Sarah delivers this foreboding:

I know you trust it. That’s what frightens me…. God rewards and God can punish….

God and Satan’s wheel of misfortune: Sympathy from the devil

The vendor who has put down his tray of unsold popcorn dons the Satan-mask. Emboldened, he confronts the God-mask by referring to Sarah’s concern about J.B.’s certainty regarding their prosperity:

Bought and paid for like a waiter’s smirk.

Wait ’til you lift the lot, he’ll sing another canticle – to different music….

Wait ’til your pigeon pecks at the world the way the rest do.

From behind the God-mask, the balloon-hawker boasts to Satan:

Nothing this good man might suffer,

Nothing at all will make him yelp as you do.

He’ll praise God no matter.

By my reading, Satan (or the role-player) appears to be discomfited by God’s (or the role-player's) piling on of afflictions. If “suffering teaches,” surely J.B. has learned whatever lesson, passed whatever test, had been intended. So Satan asks,

Why then must he suffer?....

Why then try the trust?

I could be mistaken, but by my reading, the popcorn-vendor sheds his Satan role for a moment, out of concern for J.B.:

God won’t let it happen, not to Job, the perfect and upright man. Job deserves his luck. He’s earned it.

Not yet disaffected, J.B., sobbing, declares his acceptance of misfortune,

The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away.

God commands, Finish it, Blessed be the….

What hath God wrought? and why?

By my reading, Satan (or the actor playing Satan) feels for J.B. The actor playing God comes across as arrogant. The latter seems pleased that he has destroyed J.B. without cause.

The popcorn-vendor is taken aback by all the suffering visited upon Job, “without cause”:

It isn’t decent! It isn’t moral even. It’s disgusting! His weeping wife in her despair. And he beside her on his trembling ham bones. Taking it! Eating it! It isn’t decent!

God (the role-player?) is victorious in the fear challenge. To Satan, or to popcorn-vender playing at Satan, the balloon-hawker playing God boasts and gloats:

You don’t lose gracefully, do you?

J.B., persecuted in what could be viewed as a show-trial to test faith, cries out for an answer, an explanation. He is desperate to know why he has been so afflicted. He assures his bereft wife,

God will not punish without cause… God is just!

In response to his wife’s seemingly realistic, wholly understandable despair and , J.B., prostrate, pleads:

Show me my , o God!

Rising to his knees, arms outstretched, he repeats,

Show me my guilt, o God!

Satan (or is it the pretend Satan?) concludes that there seem to be “no reasons adequate to J.B.’s catastrophes.”

Guilt – very cold comfort

Satan seems to conclude that J.B. has been made “worthy of his wretchedness” by “the gift of guilt, that putrid poultice of the soul that sucks the poison in, not out!”

Still not disaffected, J.B. rebukes his Comforters (one presumably a psychiatrist and one a cleric). He declares,

Guilt matters. Guilt must always matter. Unless guilt matters the whole world is meaningless…. Guilt must always matter…. I’d rather suffer every unspeakable suffering God sends… knowing that I had earned the need to suffer.

A Comforter suggests that “from guilt, hope begins.” When J.B. retorts, “Show me my transgressions,” the Comforter advises, “Search your inmost heart! Question it! Guilt is a deceptive secret….”

Doubt – and hopeful hopelessness

Finally, J.B. becomes desperate to be told his fault; to learn what he did to justify him suffering so much misery. He asks, “Shall I repent of sins I have not sinned?"

The actor who plays at being God offers this perspective:

We take what God has sent – the Godsend….

A world where there can be injustice….

Finally disaffected and , J.B. declares,

I will not duck my head again to thunder.

In rebuke, the actor playing God stiffens:

We have no peace but in obedience.

Our peace is acquiescence in the Will of God.

J.B. counters with resentment and his own declaration of independence from “life as a filthy farce”:

I will not and neither will I weep among the obedient who lie down to die in meek relinquishment protesting nothing, questioning nothing, asking nothing but to rise again and bow!

In stage directions, MacLeish instructs the actor playing J.B. to move “slowly, with difficulty” to deliver, “at last,” to his wife, “the hard words” about God’s unwillingness to explain “Why”:

We can never know….

He answered me like the stillness of a star that silences us asking….

We are, and that is our answer. We are and what we are can suffer. But what suffers loves, and will live its suffering again, risk its own defeat again, endure the loss of everything again, and yet again and again, in doubt, in dread, in ignorance unanswered, over and over….

Theology in the Theatre: Is J.B. cynical and irreverent? sacrilegious? blasphemous?

In his 1960 Journal of Bible and Religion appraisal, Studies Professor Burton M. Wheeler wrote that amid the “comforting [to churchmen] sweetness and light” of some 20th century theater touching on religion, “Archibald MacLeish’s J.B. intruded on the scene with troublesome audacity.”

Professor Wheeler did acknowledge, “Whether or not the verse is thin or the vulgarity is stagey or the dramatic conditions are confused, J.B. has impact on an audience and its future for revivals seems assured.”

In his Life magazine essay, “Arid Repudiation of Religion,” the Reverend Thurston N. Davis asserted that J.B. was neither a religious drama or a play: “If J.B. means anything, it is an urbane but shallow repudiation of religious faith."

Reverend Davis was editor-in-chief of America, a weekly journal of opinion published by the Jesuits of the United States and Canada. He was a member of the Society of Jesus, a scholarly religious congregation of the Catholic Church. In his view, the play's ending tells all about playwright: “It becomes quite obvious that the God who has been ‘bullwhipping’ our contemporary Job with his thundering, amplified pronouncements suddenly becomes, in Mr. MacLeish’s hands, about as meaningless as the mask worn by the old balloon-vendor who plays the role and speaks the lines of God. If J.B. ‘means’ anything, it means that the God of the Job story – He who commands the morning… gets told off and sent ingloriously to the wings by Man.”

Rev. Davis conceded that, “On the positive side, J.B. tries hard in its closing moments to become a secular affirmation of human life and human love as the sole props and rationale of bewildered humanity.”

Nevertheless, having read the J.B. script and having seen the play itself on two occasions, Rev. Davis concluded his appraisal with questions and a somewhat damning rebuke: “Are there divine ‘reasons’ for human pain? Is there at last a Justice that will set things right? Is there a Mind and a Providence at work in human affairs? Is Man enveloped by God’s Love? If I read and hear him aright, MacLeish is saying No.”

An ancient confrontation, with modern implications

In his Life magazine essay “Modern Answers to an Enigma,” Reinhold Niebuhr, who was a professor at Union Theological Seminary, credited MacLeish with “undertaking a difficult task” – attempting to answer “searching questions about the meaningless of extreme human suffering.” The attempt, wrote Niebuhr, was done with “artistic ingenuity.”

Niebuhr explained that while MacLeish’s play emphasizes “meaningless suffering,” the play “neglects the ancient book’s even more searching question about the meaning of life.”

This, Niebuhr contended, is “an even deeper problem than that of meaningless suffering but one more poignantly relevant to an atomic age which has the greatness to discover nuclear energy but lacks the to avoid the risk of nuclear war. MacLeish neglects this vital dimension of the original.”

Theologian and ethicist Niebuhr wrote, “Though MacLeish himself evidently does not believe in a personal God,” he does have God appear to Job in “a whirlwind to confront him [J.B] with all the mysteries of creation to prove that there is a meaning to life beyond that which any mere man can provide from his own limited perspective.”

The need for answers and explanations

In his Life magazine essay “Insight into Our Deep Need,” Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, who was chancellor of New York’s Jewish Theological Seminary, opened his assessment with this: “What is most startling about MacLeish’s distinguished play is its success as a Broadway production. A moralistic fable, based on the most difficult and perplexing book in Scriptures, attracts crowds in numbers usually expected only at musical comedies. Obviously J.B. answers a deep need.”

Finkelstein, a Talmud scholar, observed, “The play conveys, of course, the unspoken agony of a generation which, having witnessed the most horrible war in history, fears even more horrible catastrophes….

“In MacLeish’s view, one of our greatest problems is our failure to find any purpose in the sufferings of our time.”

The Playwright felt the need to “confess” and contest

In an article for The Christian Century, Archibald MacLeish confirmed that J.B. is intended to posit that while “God is, man may know Him only through love.”

MacLeish continued, “The justification of the universe is not our blind acceptance of God’s inexplicable will, nor our trust in God’s love, his dark and incomprehensible love, for us, but our human love, notwithstanding anything, for him… love is the only possible answer to our ancient cry against injustice.”

Luck, hard-luck, and harsh judgments

The New Yorker magazine’s theater critic, Kenneth Tynan, found the 1958 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, presentation “flawless,” but wrote, “The same, unfortunately, cannot be said of the thing presented.

Tynan credited MacLeish with going at “the task of justifying the ways of God to man” by employing the Book of Job, “that greatest of hard-luck stories,” which the playwright “retold in the form of a morality play.” While the playwright clearly wanted to raise “whirlwinds,” the critic bristled at the play’s “devotion to an antique and extravagant concept of the Deity.”

In that critic’s view, God and Man were pugilists in a metaphorical boxing match under a circus tent: “After each new body blow, God’s chosen sparring partner staggers back off the ropes for more, to the delight of God and the chagrin of Satan,” who, seemed (to me) to have moved into J.B.’s corner in the hope that the pummeled and bloodied mortal would throw in his pious towel, to “renounce and curse his Creator.”

Like a number of critics, Tynan was quite displeased with the play’s resolution – finding it to be a betrayal of all that had preceded: “To say that the ending cheats is to put it mildly. The play rests on the assumption, everywhere endorsed by the text, that we are judged by God. It then poses the question: Why are we judged so harshly?”

Tynan skewered, “Long before the final curtain, I was bored to exasperation by the lack of any recognizable human response to calamity.”

Tynan asserted that “justice, which distributes punishments and rewards, is a human invention.” He declared, to be wronged by misfortune or injustice is “not an evidence of sin.”

A contrasting concept was presented in “J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man,” by Mary Frances Thelen, a Professor of Religion. Thelen observed that many reviewers “speak of the confusion in which the audience finds itself at the end as to what is the real outcome of the play, what the author has finally concluded concerning the problem of the suffering of the innocent.”

Yet, Professor Thelen would go on to assert that J.B. must surely have had “tangible sins and sinfulness of which to repent, even if he has done nothing so dreadful as to merit the crushing disasters which overtake him”

Divine doings, wrath? or Mankind’s interventions, exuberance and inattentions?

In the ultimate show of incontestable prowess, MacLeish has God come to J.B. in a whirlwind, highlighting all that is in His power and domain.

Can we reasonably extrapolate from that demonstration of might that God is to blame for hurricane-force winds, tornadoes, and the wildfires fanned and spread by wind? Are the torrential rains that bring devastating floods, rockslides, and mudslides punishments demanding a modern-day Noah?

Or, has been so impacted by Man, the steward and groundskeeper of Earth, as to despoil what was entrusted to Man by the Creator?

Are we to expect God’s intervention to halt and restore what came about as a result of Man’s inattention? over-extension?

Has Mankind’s unkindness to the planet rewritten the God-mortal pact to read, “The Lord giveth, and Man taketh away?”

All this is beyond me. I report, you decide.

But like J.B.’s wife, I do wonder how it is that I have been so very fortunate (so damn lucky), while others have not. “Why me?”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments:

J. B. – the Samuel French, Inc. acting edition

“Theater: MacLeish Drama Based on the Story of Job” New York Herald Tribune, December 30, 1958

“The Ageless Story of Job’s Ordeals in the Year’s Prize Play” Life magazine, May 18, 1959

“Job’s Ordeal in Great Play” Life magazine, December 22, 1958

“Theology and the Theatre” by Professor Burton M. Wheeler, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1960

The New Yorker magazine, Kenneth Tynan review, December 20, 1958

“J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man” by Mary Frances Thelen, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1959

“The Book of Job” by Archibald MacLeish, published in The Christian Century, April 8, 1959

The Book of Job: When Bad Things Happened to a Good Person (Nextbook Press) by Rabbi Harold Kushner, excerpted and adapted for Tablet magazine as “Bad Things, Good Person: Is Misfortune God’s Doing?” 3 October 2012

Special thanks to Janet Valeski of Quinnipiac University’s Bernhard Library, Christina DeLucia of Quinnipiac University’s School of Law Library, and Amy Bush of the University of California Davis Shields Library.

====== 175 ========

WHY ARE PATIENTS RELUCTANT TO TAKE MEDICATION?

I’ve been through this before, the emotional fragility and unwarranted tears. Depre—No. No. I couldn't bear the thought of returning to that black bottomless pit. I can't even bring myself to use the word.

I search my . Why now? Has something triggered it? A fleeting thought: Is it related to yesterday's bout of sensory overload?

I have cavernous angiomas, clusters of thin-walled blood vessels in my . Two of them had bled, turning my life upside-down. To prevent future bleeds, I underwent three brain surgeries to remove the culprits. The ordeal left me with a number of neurological challenges.

Source: Deb Brandon

Among the various meds I take to manage these issues is the anti-seizure , Lamictal, which was prescribed by my neurologist several months before my surgeries. The 300 milligram daily dose was effective, but I looked forward to my post-surgery days. I was sure the surgeries would eliminate many of my symptoms, especially the seizures. I believed that eventually, I’d be able to wean myself off the Lamictal.

I was wrong—the seizures made a comeback, and my daily dose was increased to 400 milligrams.

It did not occur to me that the dose would go any higher. I certainly didn’t think that Lamictal would target another aftereffect of the surgeries— . In fact, the thought that I was suffering from biological depression didn’t enter my mind until I tumbled into the maw of suicide ideation.

During the first four months after the surgeries, I attributed my frequent tears to situational depression: I'd been through a lot; depression was to be expected. But after I became , of returning to that state of mind chased away denial, and I admitted my thoughts of suicide to my therapist, who pointed out that brain injury itself can cause depression. Since Lamictal is also a mood stabilizer, my psychiatrist increased my dose to 600 milligrams, which successfully controlled both depression and seizures.

Prior to the brain bleeds, I’d always kept my use of any type of medication to a minimum: painkillers for headaches and antibiotics for bacterial infections, nothing else. Now here I was, popping pills daily—6 pills to manage seizures and depression; two pills for blood pressure, to prevent additional bleeds; two pills for a folic-acid deficiency often associated with depression. In addition, I took a variety of pain-killers for crippling headaches. I felt like I was poisoning myself with all these meds, and the Lamictal was the worst of the lot, especially now that I was on a higher dose.

But I was that my depression was temporary. I was convinced that it was caused by the surgeries and that as I healed, my depression would subside. In time, I would be able to eliminate the Lamictal from my daily regimen of medication altogether.

Five years after the surgeries, my seizures and depression seemed to be things of the past, and, with my neurologist's and psychiatrist's blessings, I started decreasing the Lamictal dose. After several trial runs with lowered dosages, I was down to 500 milligrams per day.

Unfortunately, a couple of years later, the meds lost effectiveness—once again depression shadowed my every step. My psychiatrist, instead of increasing the dose of Lamictal, augmented it with another anti-depressant, Celexa. Not only did my depression abate, but so did my spells of sensory overload.

Sensory overload: During my first few years of recovery, I had enormous difficulties processing incoming sensory data. When the circuits in my brain overloaded, they jammed up, causing confusion and panic, which usually brought on spectacular meltdowns followed by emotional fragility that sometimes lasted for days.

According to my psychiatrist, the Celexa, in addition to addressing depression, also reduced , which had been feeding into sensory overloads, making them worse.

But now, years post-surgery, sensory overload was a rare occurrence; at its worst, I merely teared up, and then only briefly.

But over the last few weeks, I'd occasionally become weepy for no apparent reason. At first, I assumed that theses episodes were related to sensory overload. But given their increasing frequency, I started to wonder.

Then this morning, more than a decade since the surgeries, with no warning, I found myself sobbing, tears streaming down my cheeks.

What was going on? I recalled that yesterday, after attending a crowded event at work, I suffered an extreme case of sensory overload, such as I hadn’t experienced in years. I hadn’t had a meltdown since…since when? Two, three years ago? Probably more. Was today’s crying jag just an aftereffect of yesterday’s overload?

I shied away from the thought that this morning’s tears were due to depression once again descending. But I couldn’t repress my whispering about the possibility. I can't afford to stick my head in the sand. I cannot risk spiraling into the abyss like I did so long ago.

I probably should make an appointment with my psychiatrist as soon as possible—but she might increase the dosage of Lamictal or Celexa, and I feel the old resistance to "more meds" rise up. Will it do any harm to wait a bit longer? Maybe this is just be a blip that will pass.

I’m calmer now, no longer crying. Yes, I decide, I can afford to wait and see. I’ll hold off, for now. Until tomorrow, if I find myself weeping uncontrollably again, for absolutely no reason.

====== 176 ========

THE BEAUTY OF CONNECTIONS

Source: Photo by B. Luceigh

I feel driven to offer reflections on beautiful connections between humans. Perhaps my need arises to counterbalance sad prompted by the upcoming holidays, the weariness of ongoing divisive news, or the horrors of recent fires and floods. In the midst of many shadows, I am especially sensitive to the universal presence of what I experience as the Light of .

When I have a brief, sincere, face-to-face interaction with a stranger, I often sense delicate wavelets of Beauty passing through me. These encounters occur in safe public settings. The interactions are as simple as thanking someone for holding a door open for me, initiating a chat while waiting in line, or just smiling at someone as we pass on the sidewalk. I have become more observant of others doing likewise. In such situations, I have no need to know the stranger’s history, values, or views. I have no motive other than to connect beautifully. I best do so when I am fully present in the simple moments of the exchange. They are moments of connection, human with human, through mutual acknowledgement of each other’s existence.

I am likely to quickly forget any single connection amidst whatever I was otherwise doing at the time. Each event is like a punctuation mark within the paragraphs of my life. Each indicates when to pause, be alert, be curious, or stop as my personal story unfolds. What is most meaningful to me is the collection of not only mine but all such interactions with strangers. That collection serves to remind me again and again that there are other humans across our planet also interweaving beautiful connections among our species. I am reminded I am not alone at the deepest level of our shared humanity even though we each differ in our outward expressions of it. I am always a participant in life, but I better experience its Wholeness when I share the awareness of it by simple moments of connection. It is a practice that opens my heart and broadens my mind to our common inheritance as children of Earth.

Other connections that have been ongoing for longer periods of time become . More time allows for varieties of shared experience, exploration of values and preferences, and formation of memories. Over time, caring relationships may become deeper, stronger, and more loving ones as Beauty expresses herself within their connections.

When I consider my loving relationships in the context of the whole of existence, I see each as a form arising from universal Beauty—like a rosebud rising from an amorphous cloud. A deeply loving relationship provides evolving connections to nurture each other’s continuous developmental transformation into a more beautiful human flower. To “grow up” psychologically and “wake up” spiritually, whether as individuals or as a relationship, are exquisite expressions of Beauty’s limitless connections into forms.

When I have a brief, sincere connection to a stranger, I wonder if a micro-version of a loving relationship momentarily comes into being. Perhaps it’s like the brief fragrance of a rose emanating from inside a flower shop as one passes—noticed for only a moment before being lost by the next breath. I wonder if some small influence to connect can be recorded in the heart-mind of a stranger I speak to or smile at. I like to believe the voice or smile leaves a delicate memory that joins and enhances related memories within that person—like multiple times smelling a rose from outside a flower shop strengthens a single conscious recollection.

Might beautiful experiences join together to work their way from the unconscious to the conscious heart-mind within a human? Might the recipient of beautiful encounters with multiple strangers motivate one to transform into a more beautiful human? Might multiple times smelling roses entice one to take the first step into the flower shop? When I am sincerely present for another human, stranger or not, am I serving in that moment as Beauty’s fragrance drawing forth the soft edge of the rosebud of his/her potential as a human?

My belief in Beauty prompts me to find ways to embody her as I connect to others. My belief in Beauty reminds me that Good and True connections to others will help heal dark moments in our lives. Over time, I believe brief, sincere connections between strangers can transform into deeply caring relationships among humanity.

As you hold open the shop door for me,

may my as I pass

hold open your heart for you.

====== 177 ========

HALFWAY THROUGH THE WOOD

Source: Photo: Jessica Teich, used with permission

On a hot, still Sunday morning, I got an email from a dear friend’s ex-husband and son. It had a deceptively simple subject heading: “Sad News.”

It is with deep sorrow that we inform you that Judy passed away earlier today at her Santa Monica home. She was surrounded by her loved ones after a long struggle with her illness, which she kept very private.

“Very private” was an understatement: She hadn’t told anyone she was dying. No one even knew she was sick. Yet Judy wasn’t afraid even of the most difficult subjects, including her from the man who came back to care for her when she was ailing, or the terrible death of her own mother, whose giant necklace she wore like a talisman.

Judy and I first met more than twenty years ago, sitting on the floor of one of those progressive preschools where all the other moms were wearing yoga pants. When she said her name was Judy Blume— a name she shared with the beloved children’s author— I grinned and said I still had some questions about menstruation. (Remember Are You There God? It’s Me,Margaret?)She laughed, obligingly, I’m sure, and launched into one of the searching conversations that were her signature.

That’s the kind of conversation I want to have with her now. About her.

Judy was a literary person, a theatre person, and she particularly loved Stephen Sondheim. In fact, “Sondheim Fan” was her “handle,” before we even knew what handles were. She once sat in my living room and sang “No One is Alone” with my five-year-old daughter.

Sometimes people leave you

Halfway through the wood.

For a long time, she secretly rehearsed a cabaret act of her favorite songs. To console myself, I imagine her as one of T.S. Eliot’s mermaids, “singing, each to each.” Then I remember: I will never hear her voice again, just as Eliot never hears his mermaids:

I do not think that they will sing to me.

No one is alone, according to her beloved Sondheim, but Judy was, or nearly. When I began contacting our mutual , they were as surprised and devastated as I. I had sensed something was off and kept reaching out to her, mostly by text— the staccato informality seemingly a substitute for :

Where are you?

Are you okay?

Then one day I ventured, how are you feeling?

“Null,” she shot back.

The daughter with whom she’d sung Sondheim and I laughed, thinking Judy meant “well,” but had been autocorrected.

Now I wonder if “null” meant “ill,” and I just didn’t know it.

Why didn’t she want anyone to know?

Maybe it was pride, because she didn’t like to be fawned over. Or a healthy : She wanted to be remembered as she was. Vivid black hair, and that low, liquid voice, and the way she gave the word “theatre” three syllables. Bold enough in late middle age to wear a bathing suit to a pool party, plunging into the velvety water on a cold summer day. Judy worked out on the Santa Monica stairs for years, long after it was healthy for her hip. When she fell silent, I wondered if that hip was bothering her again. Maybe she needed a replacement? Were we really that old?

We met, sitting on pillows at a preschool.

Now our toddlers were turning 21.

Judy worked for years as a film editor, but left the profession when the hours proved too hard for a mostly single mother. She later became a therapist, graduating from a program many Hollywood people turn to in . I wouldn’t have thought her filmmaking skills would translate to : Therapists don’t edit things; they let the material emerge and take its own shape. But Judy had the most essential quality: she listened deeply. Very few people do. And I would have heard her, if she’d said, “I’m really ill” or “I’m dying.” I would have listened if she’d wanted to say good-bye.

“It’s me,” Judy Blume said whenever she called. She never said her name, that fabled name. If we were close enough that she needn’t have identified herself on the phone, wasn’t I close enough to know she was dying? I could have been there, to bring soup, to fluff pillows, to sing Sondheim; to help with the meds or the bills or the household chores. I could have been there, to recall the preschool playdates, the middle school struggles, the moment we began to let go of our kids in high school, because we had to.

We let go because we had no other choice.

One last , of bumping into her in an art museum in Los Angeles. She and her German beau (now her ex) were going to the desert to get married. Their son was three years old, and it seemed like the right time. I marveled at her cool, back in a day when people—at least nice Jewish girls from Philadelphia suburbs— got married before having a baby. She was impressively free. An iconoclast.

So, of course, she would choose to die in a way unlike anyone else. And I must let her go, not as I would wish to, but as she insisted I do.

Still, I haven’t been able to delete her final text message with the word “null.” I try not to dwell on the terrible void it describes. Sometimes I want to shout into the abyss, as if confronting the Judy Blume who wrote provocative children’s books: I’ve got questions! About life! About the end of things! About the pain you must have suffered, and the .

And the question, also without an answer, that tugs at me with an almost tidal pressure: How can I accept that I will never see you again?

Judy was a film editor, but she edited out all the interstitial tissue that binds our ideas about death; the long, labored days that allow loved ones to grieve. She left behind so many questions, not just about her only child but about her house and her dogs, Siberian huskies with piercing Arctic eyes. “They’re escape artists,” she once said of the two goliaths, forever finding their way out of her yard.

Judy was an escape artist, too.

It’s left to us to remember her, sleek as an otter in the water. Or singing.

It’s left to us to love her and let go.

====== 178 ========

THE HIPPOCAMPUS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND PHYSICAL HEALTH

is nothing more than good and a bad memory. —Albert Schweitzer

The hippocampus is a key area of the brain involved with basic function, part of the temporal lobe and intimately related with the amygdala. The hippocampus is involved with memory storage and retrieval, while the amygdala is best known for its role in and alarm in the face of potential threats. When functioning properly, the hippocampus is thought to create an appropriate context for , helping to support a coherent narrative of what is and is not really dangerous, keeping the amygdala regulated so that it is active only when appropriate...and buffering against excess , both from the and internally-generated.

Posttraumatic and stress-related effects

In conditions where fear-based responses have become poorly regulated, such as , the hippocampus has been found to be smaller in size and less effective at grounding the alarm signaling of the amygdala. It isn’t clear whether having a smaller hippocampus is the result of , a factor which predisposes to developing PTSD, or both. While there are many studies showing an association between PTSD and other conditions, and smaller hippocampi, there are only small twin studies comparing traumatized with non-traumatized suggesting that smaller hippocampi may be a risk factor for subsequent PTSD. On the other hand, animal studies have shown that chronic stress directly reduces the size of the hippocampus, and effective treatment can increase the size of the hippocampus and other brain regions. Most likely, there are complex two-way among hippocampus size, environmental factors, and risk for positive and negative impacts on well-being.

Such persistent activation of threat-response systems when no threat is present is associated with negative health effects due to connections between the hippocampus and other parts of the brain, including the HPA-axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) which regulates stress such as cortisol and adrenaline in the brain and body. In fact, the hippocampus has been found to play a role in well-being beyond its role in PTSD.

Self-esteem, health and the hippocampus

In recent research (Lu, Li, Wang, Song and Liu, 2018), study authors highlight the role of the hippocampus for both self-esteem and physical health, seeking to understand if the hippocampus is part of the brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and greater physical health. In reviewing the prior literature, researchers offer key observations. First, higher self-esteem is associated with better health outcomes and longevity, likely via higher reported levels of positive states including , relaxation, and joy. Lower self-esteem, in contrast, is associated with negative health outcomes, with increased risks for and , and use, and increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases.

Second, the the hippocampus is closely involved with self-esteem. This makes sense given that the hippocampus is involved with autobiographical memory, a key part of our sense of self and , how we feel about ourselves and the stories we tell ourselves and others about who we are. Neuroimaging research has shown that the hippocampus is larger and more active in people with greater self-esteem. Finally, the hippocampus is connected not just with psychiatric problems, but also plays a role in physical health. Research has shown, for example, that the hippocampus is smaller in size in Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, chronic and inflammation. The hippocampus is larger, on the other hand, in people with greater aerobic fitness, suggesting it may play a role in overall health.

Does the hippocampus connect self-esteem with physical health?

Given these observations, Lu and colleagues hypothesized that the hippocampus might be part of the underlying brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and physical health. In order to answer this question, they recruited 239 college students for a neuroimaging research study looking at the following factors: self-esteem, via the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES); physical health, via the Chinese Constitute Questionnaire (CCQ), a standard, validated measurement tool of general physical health; and structural MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), to look at the size of the hippocampus in study participants. Researchers then analyzed the data and performed a “mediation analysis” to determine what, if any, role hippocampal volume had in mediating the relationship between self-esteem and physical health.

First, they found that self-esteem and physical health were significantly correlated with one another in their study, confirming the results of prior research. They also showed that in this group of participants self-esteem and hippocampal volume were positively correlated for both left and right sides of the brain. The larger the hippocampi, the greater the reported self-esteem. Furthermore, they also found a positive correlation with hippocampus size and physical health, again for both left and right sides. Replicating the findings of previous research, they reported three key relationships: 1) self-esteem and physical health; 2) larger hippocampus and self-esteem; 3) larger hippocampus and physical health.

Source: Lu et al., 2018

However, while suggestive, these findings alone don’t provide evidence that the hippocampus is a primary player in determining how higher self-esteem leads to better physical health. In order to see whether the hippocampus is part of the pathway connecting self-esteem and physical health, researchers analyzed the data to see whether the connection between self-esteem and physical health remained as robust after factoring out the role of the hippocampus. In other, words, we can see how much the hippocampus mediates between self-esteem and physical health by seeing what happens when we subtract the contribution of the hippocampus, and see what is left over. When study authors performed this mediation analysis, they found that (illustration) there was a statistically significant decrease in the correlation between self-esteem and physical health, showing that hippocampal size is a key factor connecting the two. However, self-esteem and physical health were still related, independent of the hippocampus, showing that it is not the only factor connecting the two.

What can we do to enjoy greater self-esteem and physical well-being?

This is an early yet intriguing finding suggesting that the hippocampus has a primary, but not exclusive, role in determining how self-esteem leads to better physical health. It is tempting to speculate about the role of the hippocampus in identity and sense of self as an overarching influence in providing good sense of self, secure and healthy relationships with others, and as a result better self-care, especially given how trauma can interfere with physical and emotional health, and impair self-care.

On a basic level, however, the hippocampus is involved with regulating key physiological factors, balancing stress and relaxation responses depending on the context, under the influence of “top-down” factors from higher brain centers involved with executive function and conscious control of behavior. Future research can look in more detail at other brain networks involved in hippocampal control, in order to find ways to optimize physical health as mediated by self-esteem, to understand what specific behaviors may influence hippocampal function to foster greater health and whether existing and new treatments can target key brain regions to be more effective.

Does increasing self-esteem increase the size and function of the hippocampus? If so, what are the specific mechanisms? How does aerobic exercise increase hippocampus size, and how much of the health benefits are the result of altered hippocampal function? What tools can we develop to leverage the role of the hippocampus on health? Is the hippocampus involved in the positive effects of gratitude, , and happiness on well-being, shifting the stories we tell ourselves about who we are in literally healthier ways?

How much of a role does the hippocampus play in ensuring we can have healthy relationships with others, a factor which is also associated with better physical health? It makes sense to keep doing things we know help us feel better about ourselves, enjoy greater self-esteem and self-efficacy, and do more of what makes us feel better and be healthier, while looking forward to understanding how best to use emerging brain science to provide additional tools for improving health and quality of life.

====== 179 ========

HAVE WE UNDERESTIMATED THE HARM CAUSED BY LOW SELF-ESTEEM?

Until now, there’s been surprisingly little research on the prime driving factors of self-harm among LGBTQ students who are statistically at a much higher risk of suicide and non- (NSSI) than their heterosexual counterparts. For the first time, a new study, “Psychological Correlates of Self-Harm within Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual UK University Students,” reports that low may have a bigger influence on self-injury behaviors than or .

Source: Sharon McCutcheon/Pexels

Based on the cohort used for this study, almost two-thirds (65%) of students in their early 20s who self-identify as Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual (LGB) had carried out non-suicidal self-harm over their lifetime. Tragically, 35 percent of LGB students in this survey reported an attempted suicide in their lifetime compared to 14 percent of non-LGB students.

Other types of NSSI self-harm are behaviors such as , binge drinking, non-lethal overdoses, cutting, burning, scratching, and trichotillomania.

The authors explain the layout of their latest research on self-harm: "This study explores the association between lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) status and self-harm in UK students. There is currently limited data on this association, and the role psychological variables have in potentially explaining this link, in UK students. We examine whether LGB status is associated with self-harm (both non-suicidal self-injury [NSSI] and suicide attempts [SA]), and whether 4 psychological variables (depression, anxiety, belongingness, self-esteem) mediate this association.”

This study was a collaborative effort by researchers from the University of Manchester, Leeds Beckett University, Lancaster University, and Edith Cowan University in Australia.

"Surprisingly, there is little data on the psychological mechanisms that might explain the association between being lesbian, gay or bisexual, and self-harm in UK students. This data highlights how low self-esteem may leave some LGB students more at risk. Interestingly, anxiety and depressive symptoms did not appear to be important once self-esteem was taken into account,” first author Peter Taylor said in a statement.

Senior author Elizabeth McDermott of Lancaster University added: "Young people's mental is a national concern and this study confirms that lesbian, gay or bisexual young people have elevated rates of suicidality and self-harm compared with heterosexual youth. We know much less about how LGB young people seek help for their mental health problems, or what type of support would be effective."

Anecdotally, I corroborate the conclusion by Peter Taylor et al. that low-self esteem puts lesbian, gay, and bisexual students at higher risk of self-harm. Based on my first-person experience as a gay student in the 1980s who suffered from a triple whammy of (1) clinical depression, (2) crippling anxiety, and (3) low self-esteem—I realized in adulthood that it was primarily my feelings of worthlessness and low-self esteem (more than depression or anxiety) that pushed me to the brink of taking my own life.

Can Physical Activity, Mental Toughness, and Sub-Clinical Narcissism Facilitate a “Sunny” Triad that Combats Low-Esteem?

For the second part of this blog post, I’m going to shift gears and present some prescriptive advice I’ve cobbled together based on a blend of the latest empirical evidence and personal life experience.

Because there’s such a dearth of evidence-based research on the link between low self-esteem and self-harm amongst members of the LGBTQ community, I’ve made myself a human guinea pig and deconstructed specific factors that helped me boost my self-esteem as a gay teen through the lens of the latest research on subclinical narcissism (SN) and the so-called “Dark Triad” (DT) of narcissism, , and Machiavellianism.

After piecing together the latest findings on some adaptive benefits of subclinical narcissism over the past week, I’ve created a new term and coined it: “The Sunny Triad." The ST consists of physical activity (PA), mental toughness (MT), and healthy doses of subclinical narcissism (SN).

Source: diggis/Shutterstock

Last week, I wrote a Psychology Today blog post, “Don’t Believe the Hype! ‘Narcissists’ Aren’t Necessarily Evil" inspired by a study from Kostas Papageorgiou and colleagues at Queen’s University Belfast, “The Positive Effect of Narcissism on Depressive Symptoms Through Mental Toughness: Narcissism May Be a Dark Trait, but It Does Help with Seeing the World Less Grey,” published Nov. 1 in European .

In my "Don't Believe the Hype!" blog post—which tries to dissuade people from indiscriminately throwing around the derogatory label " " without acknowledging that narcissism exists on a spectrum—I share my own stories of overcoming low self-esteem and adopting a “YES! Bring it on. I got this!” mindset as a gay teen. For me, the key to overcoming my tendency to inflict self-harm involved developing some healthy narcissism and a "sense of agency" at a time when I felt my life didn't matter.

Papageorgiou posits that healthy doses of SN are correlated with increased mental toughness, more to Experience (OE) and fewer depressive symptoms (DS). I agree.

Notably, over the years, I've found that music can play a pivotal role in kick-starting an upward spiral of PA, SN, MT, and OE by creating to break a sweat doing some moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). For more, check out this "Subclinical Narcissists' Playlist" of 22 songs I curated to help generate more self-esteem and overall oomph.

As a side note: I realize that the growing list of acronyms herein is beginning to sound like alphabet soup... But each of these factors (SN, MT, OE, PA, etc.) are key elements that can be blended together into a psychosocial concoction that has the power to boost feelings of self-sufficiency, self-worth, higher self-esteem, and lower depression.

Coincidentally, after sharing my latest blog post on the possible upside of healthy doses of narcissism, Gregory Carter of York St. John University retweeted the link with a comment, “An interesting article that chimes with some of the positive outcomes (for the self) associated with aspects of sub-clinical narcissism, also reported in work by me and @DrMDDpsych and other papers with @DrRobertVaughan @YSJPsych.”

After reading Carter’s Tweet, I Googled his research and found a recent paper he’d done with Robert Vaughan, “Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger? Mental toughness, the Dark Triad, and Physical Activity,” (2018) which identified a positive relationship between mental toughness, sub-clinical narcissism, and higher levels of physical activity among elite-level athletes.

This paper by Gregory Carter and colleagues overlayed with the work of Kostas Papageorgiou et al. triggered an “Aha!” moment in my and was a catalyst for my realization that physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism may be part of a “sunny triad” that can increase self-esteem. Based on my own life experience and the empirical evidence provided by the aforementioned researchers, I suspect that combining the "sunny triad" of three acronyms (PA + MT + SN) on a regular basis in day-to-day life may be a recipe for boosting self-esteem.

Over the past few days, I’ve been corresponding with Gregory Carter for a follow-up blog post and Q&A we’re collaborating on tentatively titled: ”Physical Activity May Brighten Aspects of the Dark Triad: Can physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism create a "sunny" triad?”

====== 180 ========

MULTITASKING IN THE MIND'S EYE

Source: Pixabay / CC0 Public Domain

It’s common knowledge by now that multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to go about our daily business. Study after study has shown that when we try to perform multiple tasks at the same time, we end up doing each of them more slowly and less accurately than if we had focused on one task at a time, which is all our actually permits us to do. And while we’re not always aware of this inefficiency in our own efforts at multitasking, we notice it every day in other people. Just this morning, for instance, when I stopped by a local fast food establishment to pick up breakfast, the headset-wearing cashier who approached me at the counter simultaneously took my order while completing an order in drive-thru, and on the way to pick up my food, restocked cups, removed the hash brown basket from the fryer, and set up three cups on the automatic soda dispenser. I was not the least bit surprised, then, when I got to my car and discovered that my two ham biscuits and coffee had turned into a breakfast burrito and hot tea with a cookie on the side. Multi-tasking is, quite simply, a bad idea. Our brains are wired to focus on one task at a time, and to try to do more than that is to fight against our own , neurally speaking.

And yet, fight we do. Flying in the face of the prevailing about the fundamental inefficiency of multitasking, most of us spend our days performing multiple tasks at once because it simply makes us feel like we are getting more work done in a shorter span of time—it gives us the illusion of efficiency. Given our insistence on multitasking, in spite of what the scientific evidence might say, it is comforting to learn that this illusion of efficiency might not be purely illusory after all. New research from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan suggests that, while trying to perform many tasks at once is less efficient than taking them on one at a time, the perception that we are multitasking can, under certain circumstances, actually improve our performance. Srna et al. presented people with a variety of activities that could be viewed as either single tasks or collections of multiple tasks, and compared their performance on the tasks on the basis of which way they perceived them.

In one study, 162 participants were divided into two groups and asked to watch and transcribe an educational video. One group was told they would be completing two tasks simultaneously—a learning task and a transcribing test--while the other was told they would be working on a single learning task meant to test their learning and writing abilities. In other words, while both groups were performing exactly the same activity, one group viewed their effort as multitasking, while the other considered themselves to be performing a single task. When the results of the two groups’ note-taking sessions were compared, the people who perceived the work as multitasking outperformed the group that viewed it as a single task, transcribing more words, showing greater accuracy in their transcriptions, and scoring higher on an unannounced quiz at the end of the study. The perception that they were multitasking significantly improved the first group’s efficiency, as compared to the second, single task group.

In another study, 237 participants were divided into two groups and asked to work on two puzzles—a 15 x 15 matrix of letters from in which they searched for words in a horizontal, vertical, and diagonal pattern, and an anagram task in which they constructed as many words as possible from a string of ten letters. The “multitasking” group was told that the puzzles related to two different studies (perceptual and identification), while the “single-tasking” group was told that the two puzzles were both part of a single “perceptual-identification” study. As with the video transcription study, the group that believed they were performing two tasks at once outperformed the group that believed they were performing a single task, coming up with more words in the time allotted. Once again, the illusion of multitasking appeared to increase efficiency.

The researchers conjecture that the boost in efficiency they observed in the participants who perceived themselves as multi-tasking has to do with their relative engagement in the tasks with which they were presented. Previous studies have demonstrated that people’s for investing effort and attention increases with the difficulty of a given task. The participants’ perception that they were multitasking may have increased their engagement with the tasks because they considered performing multiple tasks at once more challenging than performing one task at a time. This conjecture was supported by physiological measures, in that the multitasking group exhibited greater pupil dilation during their work than did the single-tasking group, and pupil dilation has been shown to be associated with people’s “attentional and mental effort, processing load, and arousal.” The perception that we are multitasking may increase our engagement with a task simply because we view it as a challenge.

Another possible reason for increased engagement in perceived multitasking is the cultural perception that multitasking is a desirable . We may focus more attention on multitasking than on performing one task at a time simply because we wish to be perceived as good multitaskers. Whatever the precise source for this increased engagement may be, the study suggests that we focus more attention on an activity when we perceive it to involve multitasking, as compared to the same activity when we perceive it as involving only a single task, and that this increase in focus makes us work more efficiently.

Srna et al. are quick to clarify that their study in no way contradicts the voluminous evidence that trying to perform several tasks simultaneously is far less efficient than performing one task at a time. Multitasking, in the way most of us go about it, is still a bad idea. When faced with an activity that can be broken down into component parts, however—balancing our checking account, for example, or creating a budget report at work—approaching it as a collection of tasks instead of as a single tedious job can sharpen our focus and give us an edge in the way we execute it. While the reality of multitasking creates the false illusion of efficiency, the illusion of multitasking can make greater efficiency a reality.

====== 181 ========

THE UNEXPECTED SCIENCE OF FRESH STARTS AND FAILURES

A new study published in the journal Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes looked at the effects of “fresh starts” on performance. The fresh start effect, as it’s come to be known, is the idea that a person can disassociate their past performance outcomes from current ones. Temporal landmarks act as a kind of mental reset button to help get us back on track and get us focused on our most cherished goals.

Source: Source: Pixabay

The most common fresh start: January 1st, the start of every New Year. It’s no coincidence, for instance, that gyms see upwards of a 20% boost in memberships at this time.

The evidence has generally pointed to the benefits of fresh starts. They motivate a person to do better in achieving a goal. But now this current research tells us that they don’t always work. They can actually backfire and make us perform worse, not better. The researchers say it has to do with what comes before the performance reset.

Fresh starts are most effective, they suggest, when a person experiences failure before the restart, like how a failed plan in the month of December prompts the need for a kale-only food plan starting Jan 1. But the evidence of this paper is showing that fresh starts should be avoided if a person’s past performance was successful. If a restart is used incorrectly in such instances, it will only hinder future goal-directed behavior.

Source: source: Pixabay

The pros and cons of fresh starts: The study

There were four studies. In the first, participants took part in 10 one-minute word games where they were paid for every word they generated correctly. Halfway through, they received feedback. To manipulate the fresh start, the testing group had a reset applied with the last 5 rounds scored from zero (offering a new starting point). The control group received the same continuous scoring throughout all 10 rounds.

The second study had participants use a performance tracking app. They were asked to focus on a habit they wanted to improve and to imagine using the app to get them there. Resets were applied to all participants. But half of them assigned to a “weak performance group” were led to believe they were performing poorly, while the other half assigned to a “strong performance group” were led to believe they were performing well.

In both these first two studies, a questionnaire measured participants’ and , in addition to performance metrics. In both instances, the only people who benefited from the performance resets were the ones who had (or led to believe they had) been performing less well. And the resets actually hindered the performance of those who been doing well previously.

The third follow-up study used a similar word game. Except this time, participants were given the opportunity to complete a further round of word games that could potentially earn them extra pay. When resets were applied, the strong performers in particular were less motivated to continue on with the additional rounds.

In a final study looking at archival data, the researchers went to a high-performance domain --professional baseball. They were curious to see whether resetting a baseball player’s batting average would depend on their past performance.

Source: source: Pixabay

They could do this because in baseball, a player’s batting average gets reset to zero when they get traded (a natural fresh start). The findings showed that when players’ batting averages were lower than that of their league average (i.e. failed past performance), a trade led to a 3.8% increase in a player’s batting average. Opposite, players performing above average (i.e. successful past performance) led to a 5% decrease.

What to do about it

The takeaway: Fresh starts should be used with care. A person should be more selective in their performance resets, and recognize in themselves the difference between their good and bad past performance. If a person has been succeeding and hitting their goals, it’d be for them to avoid starting tasks on temporal landmarks.

For instance, this can be achieved by exaggerating the of a continued goal process and drawing to the previous periods’ reporting and metrics. A person who’s doing well thus far on a particular project could, let’s say, see Monday not as a new start to the week, but as a regular day that continues from the day previous. Not to condone working over-time on weekends, but it might even help to do a little bit of work on the Sunday.

And for those of us lagging behind in our personal and professional goals, no need to worry – January 1st is right around the corner.

Want to know more about goals, motivation, and peak performance? Head on over to get tactical advice and insights from the latest research.

====== 182 ========

HOW SCHOOLS THWART PASSIONS

This post is a somewhat modified version of the transcript of a TEDx talk I delivered in May, 2018.

Follow your passions. That’s what almost every commencement speaker says to the new graduates. It’s almost cruel. If all you’ve been doing is school and school-like stuff, how do you have any idea what your passions might be or how to follow them? To find and follow your passions you need lots of time and freedom to play. Play, almost by definition, IS following your passions. But we’ve pretty much removed play from young people’s lives.

Source: Max Pixel. Creative Commons

Over the past several decades we’ve continuously increased the amount of time that children spend at school, and at schoolwork at home, and at school-like activities outside of school. We’ve turned into a time of résumé building. You don’t build passions by building a résumé, trying to impress other people. You build passions by doing what you , regardless of what others think. It’s no surprise that people who are famous for their passionate achievements have often declared their dislike or even hatred of school. For quotes about schooling from 50 such people, see here.

Wounded by School

Some years ago, Kirsten Olson, who was then a Harvard graduate student, began to conduct research on the ways that highly successful people were inspired by their experiences at school. She hoped to document how passions were kindled by school. But her early findings led her to turn that thesis around by 180 degrees. The book that eventually came out of that work is entitled Wounded by School. [For my review of the book, see here.] Here is quotation from the book’s forward, written by her thesis advisor Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot: "In her first foray into the field--in-depth interviews with an award-winning architect, a distinguished professor, a writer, a executive--Olson expected to hear stories of joyful and productive learning…. Instead, she discovered the shadows of pain, disappointment, even in their vivid recollections of schooling. Instead of the light she expected, she found darkness.And their stories did not merely refer to old wounds now healed; they recalled deeply embedded wounds that still bruised and ached, wounds that still compromised and distorted their sense of themselves as persons and professionals."

Since the time when Olson’s respondents would have been in school, school has become even more oppressive. Recess has been reduced or removed. Creative activities have been largely removed from the curriculum. Homework has been increased. All in the name of improving scores on multiple-choice, one-right-answer standardized tests. The results of all this are not surprising. Research has shown that over these same decades, creative thinking has declined at all grade levels (here); and , , and among young people have increased (here and here). A 2014 survey by the American Psychological Association found that were the most people in America, and 83% of them attributed their stress to school (here). These are not conditions that promote the development of passionate interests.

My brother Fred

Now I’m going to switch to something happier, and tell you about my youngest brother Fred Carlson. His last name is different from mine because he has a different father. Fred is 12 years younger than me, so he started 1st grade in public school the same year I started college. He lasted there through 4th grade. Around that time my mother became something of a hippie and moved onto a Vermont commune with my younger brothers. Fred left public school then and attended a little free school, which my mother helped to start. The school had no imposed curriculum and he could do there whatever he wished.

That school wasn’t certified as a high school, however, so, at age 14, he enrolled in 9th grade at the local public school. On his second day there the principal told him, “We don’t like you hippie types around here.” So he left and never went back. Then, with no school, he hung around the commune for a couple of years and helped to build a house. He got interested in wood and carpentry. He also got interested in music and learned to play guitar and banjo.

When he was 16 he enrolled in a publicly supported program designed for high-school dropouts. The guy who ran the program asked him what he’d like to do, and he said, “I’d like to build a banjo.” Nobody there knew anything about instrument building, but the head of the program helped Fred find a local person, a guy named Ken, who had a woodworking shop and knew just a little about banjo building. And so, with Ken’s help, Fred built a banjo. After that, Fred used the small sum of money that his father had saved for his to take a 6-week course at a guitar-building school and to purchase the equipment he needed to set up his own shop. The rest is history.

Source: Fred Carlson, Beyond the Trees

By the time Fred was 21 years old, one of his beautiful guitars was on display at the Smithsonian Museum. Ever since then he’s continued to make one instrument after another, each one different from any of the others; each one a new invention. He is famous among luthiers for his artistry, , and craftsmanship. (For one example, see the inserted photo; for other examples, see here.) Fred believes, and so do I, that if he had stayed in school he would never have found his passion.

Self-Directed Education as the Pursuit of Passions

I’ve spent part of my academic researching the outcomes of Self-Directed Education—that is, outcomes for people who did not go to a curriculum-based school, but, instead, educated themselves by pursuing their own interests. These include, many years ago, a study of the graduates of the Sudbury Valley School, in Massachusetts, where students, from age 4 on through late teenage years, are free all day to pursue their own interests; and, more recently, a study of grown unschoolers (see here and here). Unschoolers are people who for legal purposes are homeschoolers, but are not bound by a curriculum and are continuously free to pursue their own interests. The most interesting finding, for our concern now, is that a high percentage of these young adults were pursuing careers that were direct extensions of passionate interests they had developed as children in play. Here are a few examples:

A girl who loved to play with boats went on, as a teenager, to apprentice herself to a ship captain and then became captain, herself, of a cruise ship.

Another young girl played with dolls, as many girls do. Then she started making doll clothes; then clothes for herself and her . At the time of our study she was head of a pattern-making department in the high-fashion dress industry.

A boy was passionate about all kinds of constructive play. He would make whole villages and factories, to scale, out of modeling clay. As a teenager he’d hang around local garages and learn about automobile mechanics by asking and watching. At the time of the study he was a much sought-after machinist and inventor.

Another child fell in love with science fiction. Through that he discovered mathematics and became passionate about it. He went on to become a math professor.

Still another was obsessed with computers as a teenager. At the time of the study he was 22 years old and founder and head of a very successful software development company

A girl fell in love with circuses when she was 3 years old and began training to become a performer at age 5. By the time she was a teenager she was performing professionally as a trapeze artist, and from age 19-24 she and her best friend founded and ran their own contemporary circus company.

A boy became passionate about making YouTube vides with friends at age 11. In his teens he began to study filmmaking. His experience and passion led him to be hired, at age 18, as production assistant by a major film company. At age 20, at the time of the survey, he was working with a famous director in Los Angeles on the production of a major film.

A boy by age 15 was pursuing three passionate interests—wilderness hiking, paragliding, and photography. At age 21, at the time of the survey, he was successfully pursuing a career as an aerial wilderness photographer, combining all three of his passions.

A girl who had previously been in a traditional school revolted, at age 13, and left school never to return. She then developed passionate interests in art, revolutions, and wildlife. At the time of the survey, at age 28, she was a full-time Greenpeace activist, fundraiser, and manager.

Source: Molly and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack MacDonald, with permission

Source: Marley and Akilah Richards, with permission

These are just some of the many examples documented in my research. All of these people were able to discover and pursue their passions because they had left, or had never enrolled in, a curriculum-based school.

More recently I asked some of my unschooling friends about their young children’s passions. Here are three examples of what I learned:

Kerry McDonald’s daughter Molly has several passionate interests, one of which is baking. When someone asked her, when she was 9 or 10 years old, what she wanted to be when she grew up, she replied: “A baker, but I already am one." One thing I’ve learned is that people on the Self-Directed Education path don’t divide life into a period of preparing for the future followed by a period of living that future. They don’t distinguish between learning and living or learning and doing. That’s true when they are children and it’s still true when they are adults.

Molly’s younger brother Jack is heavily into photography. He particularly admires and emulates the work of the famous landscape photographer Ansel Adams. I’ve attached one of Jack’s artistic photographs, called “reflections.”

Akilah Richards’s daughter Marley has a beautiful voice and is deeply into voice acting. By age 13 she already had gigs providing the voice for animations and fan fiction audios. Her voice acting has also led her to learn Japanese, because some of the works she most enjoys were produced in Japan. By age 14 she was tutoring another young person in Japanese.

The great advantage that these young people have in life is this: They are not going to school.

So, How Does School Thwart Passions?

It’s almost too obvious. Schools thwart passions by:

Requiring everyone to do the same things at the same time. It’s not possible for all the children in a room to be passionately interested in the same thing at the same time. Replacing intrinsic with extrinsic motivators, such as grades and trophies. To pursue a passion you have to focus on what YOU want to do, not try to impress others or win honors. Threatening students with failure or , which generates . Fear freezes the mind into rigid ways of thinking and negates the possibility of passionate interest. Teaching that there is one right answer to every question, or one right way to do what you are supposed to do. That’s a surefire way to nip any possible emerging interest in the bud. Teaching children that learning is work and that play, at best, is just a break from learning. But anyone involved in a passionate interest knows that play and learning and work are one and the same.

So, in conclusion, if we want our children to grow up with passionate interests, we must find alternatives to school. Or, at least, we must reduce the role of school and school-like activities in their lives and increase greatly their opportunities to discover and do what they like to do—that is, to play.

What has been your experience with finding and pursuing a passionate interest? Are you one of the lucky ones whose career is a manifestation of passion and play? How did you discover that passion? This blog is in part a forum for discussion, so please share your comments, questions, and stories in the comments section below.

====== 183 ========

IS SOCIAL MEDIA PDA A SIGN OF HAPPINESS OR OVERCOMPENSATION?

Source: John Jones via flickr | CC0 License

We all know those people on social who are constantly posting information about their relationship. Sometimes, we might think, "Oh, that's sweet," if we know and like the couple. Other times, we might find ourselves rolling our eyes and thinking, "Stop showing off and overcompensating." So, are these couples actually happy and our eye-rolling is the function of or disbelief? Or are they really overcompensating?

People often are suspicious of those who share a lot of relationship information on social media. Research has shown that people dislike those who post over-the-top, affectionate social media messages about their partners. Yet, the majority of research actually shows that people who have a couple profile photo, are "Facebook official," or post about their relationship tend to be more satisfied with their relationships than those who do not engage in all this showing off. People are often surprised to hear this, as it goes against their intuitions about couples who frequently post about their relationships.

However, if you step back, it makes sense that happy couples post relationship content on social media. Imagine a couple that is in a committed, happy relationship. They are more likely to have linked profiles and to be a committed couple unit that might post a couple or family photo as a profile photo. They are likely to spend a lot of time together, spend holidays together, and take vacations together. If this couple is moderately active on social media, then they will share photos of social gatherings, holidays, and vacations, which will naturally include each other. So it shouldn't be surprising at all that these kinds of social media posts are associated with higher satisfaction and commitment. In my own research, conducted with two of my former undergraduate students, Amanda Havens and Dayana Petrenko, and Michael Langlais at University of Nebraska-Kearney, we wanted to address the discrepancy between two contradictory intuitions:

The notion (backed by research) that sharing one's relationship on social media is a sign of a happy and committed relationship. The notion that sharing one's relationship on social media implies trouble and may involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship.

In two studies, recently published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, we surveyed a total of 348 adult users about how they used Facebook in their . We asked them to rate how frequently they engaged in general displays of the relationship, such as posting photos or status updates about their relationship or partner. These questions were similar to the types of behaviors assessed in previous research. We also assessed what we called "excessive relationship displays," those that went beyond the kind of relationship displays that these individuals engage in offline. Specifically, we asked how often participants posted:

Potentially embarrassing information about their partner or relationship.

Content on their partner's wall that they would be uncomfortable to say in person.

Content that showed more affection than they normally show in public.

We found that excessive displays were much less common than general relationship displays. We also found that even though they were correlated with each other, the way they related to satisfaction was quite different. As past research has found, general relationship posts were associated with greater satisfaction. So people who have a couple profile photograph and post photos and statuses about their relationships tend to be more satisfied than those who infrequently engage in those behaviors. But excessive displays were associated with less satisfaction. So people who post relationship information that they deem as potentially embarrassing or that shows more affection than they are comfortable expressing in person were actually less satisfied.

In the second study, we also asked participants to rate the extent to which they felt that Facebook had made them feel closer to and more intimate with their partners. Once again, we saw a positive effect for general relationship displays. Those who posted more relationship information on Facebook felt that Facebook helped bring them closer to their partners. Overall, excessive displays were not related to these perceptions. However, for people who were especially low in relationship satisfaction, posting excessive displays was associated with perceptions that Facebook had brought them closer. This suggests that these types of over the top displays are being used to compensate for weaker relationships. First, those who are less satisfied may post Facebook content that shows levels of affection that they aren't displaying in their actual offline relationship. These individuals then believe that engaging in these types of posts has helped their relationship. It's not clear if it actually has this helpful effect on their relationships. It is possible it has no effect or is even harmful. We would need to follow people's relationships over the long-term and to find out how their partners react to their Facebook activity in order to understand the actual consequences of these posts.

These findings demonstrate the paradoxical of social media and its relation to feelings of social connection. In a series of studies published in 2011, Kennon Sheldon and colleagues found that frequent use of Facebook was associated with both feeling connected to others and also feeling disconnected from others. Their explanation for these seemingly contradictory findings is that Facebook can make people feel more connected to others, but it is also the case that those who are feeling disconnected may turn to Facebook to seek out social connections that they are lacking. Something similar may be happening in the case of romantic relationships. People who are less satisfied with their relationships may engage in excessive displays on social media in order to bring them closer to their partners, and social media displays may also help people feel closer to their partners.

Returning to the two competing intuitions raised at the beginning of this post: 1) Relationship posts are an indication of a happy relationship, or, 2) relationship posts involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship. Our research suggests that both are true. The types of displays that simply involve sharing photos and information about one's relationship may indicate higher levels of satisfaction. However, when someone's relationship displays on Facebook reflect more affection than they show offline, it is likely that they are in a less satisfying relationship.

====== 184 ========

HOW TO DECIDE WHETHER TO MARRY

is often wonderful. Many people swear by it.

It’s also bizarre. You’re electing to commit to lifelong devotion, to feeling like wanting to accommodate another person forever no matter who they turn out to be over time.

Having children is elective too, though more like electing to enter an arranged marriage. You get the child that your arrange for you.

In marriage, you’re volunteering to throw all in with someone of your choosing, which, when you stop to think about it, is rash. If instead, you were committing to lifelong devotion to a , you’d be joining a cult.

Looks play a big part in many marriage decisions. Looks are a convincing, often life-altering optical illusion. Nothing appears more eternal than youthful hotness. Yet nothing is quite so perishable.

No wonder marriage is so heavily subsidized by and culture, our bodies insisting on it, our culture extolling it. If it weren’t, we’d never make such a radical commitment. People don’t just marry drunk in Las Vegas. Many marriages are made under the intoxicating influence of hormonal conviction and subtle, yet wall-to-wall social pressure. Still, marriage can be a wonderful thing.

in search of a lifelong partner is bound to make us ambivalent. We’re deciding to stop deciding about someone, in effect, to trust them forever. We’re pouring over details of another person to decide whether we can stop pouring over details and just love them.

Intoxicating hormones have to convince us to overlook lots because we’d otherwise be too cautious. And by now, with less social pressure to marry, our cautiousness gets expressed. We size each other up warily, more in line with what you’d expect from such a humongous decision.

So how best to decide whether to marry in times like these? Here are some tips, with some application to any big decision.

1. It’s the matrimony, stupid.

Courtship wariness can breed meta-wariness, wariness about each other’s wariness. Either of you might begin to suspect the other of “ of intimacy,” or of being ungenerous, paranoid, controlling, , needy, greedy, expecting too much, moving too quickly or moving too slowly, any of which may be true but isn’t necessarily. All of those characteristics are perfectly natural for two people doing this dance on the courtship tightrope before deciding whether to fall toward or away from each other, committing to each other for life or breaking up.



If you both enter into the courtship knowing that you’re on the tightrope, you’re less likely to take the jitters and jerks of the dance as personally, mistaking each other’s caution or zeal for a character flaw. It’s not you or your partner but the humongous commitment your considering making that’s giving you the jitters.

2. Fighting is a red flag; not fighting is even more dangerous.

Kids bicker. It drives their crazy but serves a purpose. They’re learning what works and doesn’t work in the give and take of life. Chalk it up to practice.

Courting couples have to learn how to fight too, learning how to minimize fighting in your give and take. You’re learning where to tuck in or jut out your elbows for the most efficient give and take. You’re also assessing whether you can tolerate the bickering that you probably won’t be able to eliminate. You’re -testing the relationship, which is much smarter done before than after taking your vows.

Again, if you both recognize that this is part of the courtship dance, you’re less likely to escalate into meta-fights – fights about the fact that you fight. As a result, you’re more likely to get a clear reading on what kinds of compromises you’ll have to make if you commit to marriage.

3. Throwing all in to see whether you want to throw all in.

Courtship in general, not just the bickering, is practice marriage, a tentative commitment which is a necessary but complicating oxymoron. You’re both mustering your most enthusiastic effort to determine whether you want to muster you most enthusiastic effort ‘til death do you part. You don’t want to buy marriage until you’ve tried it and you can’t try it ‘til you’ve acted as though you’ve already bought it. So you act like you’ve bought it and see how it goes. You pledge love to see whether you want to pledge love.



You have to. You’ve got to find out whether throwing all in compels your partner to reciprocate or get complacent. You give an inch hoping to discover that your partner will give an inch rather than taking a mile. If your partner takes a mile, run a mile. Get out before it’s too late. But in the testing, test earnestly. Really show up, to see whether you really want to show up forever.

4. In stress-testing the relationship, take pride in your strategic cleverness instead of taking self-protective umbrage.

Showing up is easier said than done, what with your understandable wariness about what you might be getting yourself into. It’s easy to feel compromised by partnership. Romance is the dream that you can just be yourself and loved unconditionally. Courtship starts with romance but moves on to something less dreamy, more realistic. You can’t just be yourself. You have to tuck in your elbows to make room for each other. If you pretend that courtship is like any other no-big-deal decision, you’ll feel surprised, insulted or threatened by the compromises – injured pride. That will throw off your assessment.

The alternative is to take quiet pride in your strategic cleverness. Pat yourself on the back for bending over backward for your partner. Pretty cunning. It’s you skillfully testing how your partner responds. If you decide that bending over that much is not worth it, at least you’ll have the consolation of thoroughness which you wouldn’t get if hurt pride makes you stingy.

5. Leave out of it.

Though your culture might imply that marriage is an easy, obvious, natural virtue it isn’t. These days, it’s an optional preference, a lifestyle choice, not a moral imperative. You don’t have to marry. If you choose that lifestyle you’re under moral obligations within it. But you’re not under obligation to choose the lifestyle.

You are, however, under moral obligation to decide whether you want it. These days, the residues of our culture’s marriage imperative still have people feeling obligated to marry when their hearts aren’t really into it. Don’t be like that. Know your heart as best you can. To go through the motions of wanting to marry because you’re still under the influence yesteryear’s moral mandate is like the closeted gay entering hetero . It’s unkind to the person you’re courting.



Also, in the practice bickering, moral mandates get tossed around. If you’re unwilling to do something for your partner, he or she might imply that you’re ungenerous, selfish or greedy, even narcissistic.

You might be, but courtship is a lousy test for whether you are. You’re testing your willingness to give all to someone forever. If you’re unwilling, it doesn’t prove that you’ve got some fatal character flaw. Despite what you hear from exes, not every person who pulls out of partnership is a narcissist. Deciding you don’t want to give all to someone forever might merely mean that you want to give elsewhere.

6. Rehearse a story that would rationalize each outcome.

As with any big decision, you’re going to feel a lot of tugs. “I can’t choose that. How would I ever justify that decision?” For example, “I can’t pull out of this courtship. It would prove that I’m ungenerous.” Or, “I can’t marry. How would I ever explain dropping my pledge to protect my independence?”

To neutralize those subconscious tugs, treat those questions as real, not rhetorical. For each possible choice, rehearse something you could say to justify it to you, some answer to some friend’s “what happened there?”

It doesn’t have to convince your friend who is likely to support and you whatever you decide, but something that would be convincing enough to you. Armed with an armful of self-justifications, one for each choice you might make, you can make the decision without subconscious tugs biasing your decision.

====== 185 ========

IS IT BETTER TO BE LOYAL OR HONEST IN YOUR RELATIONSHIPS?

An old friend is in town on a trip that you’ve known about for months. Back when you made a date to get together for the evening, it seemed like a great idea. You definitely want to see this person, or at least you did at the time. Now that it’s getting closer to the actual event, you’re starting to regret having made those plans. Things have gotten hectic at work, and you’d like to take the evening to sit around in your sweats and binge watch that new program which just became available for streaming. Perhaps it’s not an evening out, but a lunch date on a weekday close by to where you work. The weather forecast is predicting a messy, rainy, day and you don’t think you’ll want to venture out any more than is necessary to get from home to the office. These situations present you with a classic dilemma: Do you tell the truth to your friend but risk the relationship or preserve the relationship by making up a legitimate-sounding excuse?

Testing the values of loyalty vs. honesty in moral judgments, Cornell University’s John Angus D. Hildreth and University of California Berkeley’s Cameron Anderson (2018) asked “Does loyalty honesty?” As they note, “groups often demand loyalty, but all too often, loyalty can corrupt individuals to engage in deceit." Among the list of possible deceptions that loyalty to organizations or causes can prompt is pretending to believe in something you don’t or overlooking bad behavior by people who are a part of your group. A politician might downplay a fellow office-holder’s illicit activity or a sales manager might turn a blind eye to the shoddy products that the company is putting out on the market. You might lie to help your win in a competitive match. The deceptions involved in these instances have more serious consequences than those associated with to a friend to preserve the relationship, but the same underlying dynamic is at play in that honesty and loyalty operate at cross-purposes.

As the Cornell-Berkeley researchers go on to observe, most people view lying as unethical but may be more accepting when a lie is the result of a prosocial motive. In fact, they cite evidence that you’ll gain more trust from the people who know you if you have a reputation as a prosocial liar. A friend may overhear your saying to a mutual acquaintance that her new hairstyle looks great when, clearly, the cut and color are all wrong. Your coming out with this slight untruth shows how much you value other people’s feelings. Such lies are preferable to lies that are intended to give you an advantage over other people in order to get ahead. When you tell someone she looks nice so that you can get her to do a favor for you, this is no longer a prosocial lie because you’re doing this to increase the odds of getting something you want.

However, when a lie isn’t just prosocial but a “loyal lie,” other people are likely to view you far more negatively. A lie that is intended to protect shady operations by a group of which you are a part comes closer to a self-serving lie than one that is , even though “loyal” implies some sort of higher purpose. There is a philosophical reason for this notion as well. Philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mills regard loyalty as “immoral” due to its “inherent partiality.” Because loyal lies benefit one’s group as well as oneself over others, they should be perceived as immoral by those who observe the lie being told. The liar, by contrast, sees no such problem and, in fact, feels “a moral imperative to act in the best interests of the group.” By not lying, the individual runs the risk of “negative social judgment, ostracism and social exclusion."

Putting these ideas to the test, Hildreth and Anderson conducted a series of 4 studies involving nearly 1400 participants involving both online surveys and laboratory experiments. In the online version of the test of the study’s hypotheses (later replicated with college students), participants read scenarios varying in the behavior described by an individual who either lied or did not lie either to benefit their group in its with another group. The question was whether participants would regard deceit as unethical and immoral. In the condition involving loyalty and intergroup competition, participants perceived deceit as being relatively less unethical than in other conditions. However, participants rated loyal deceit (lying to benefit their group) as more unethical than disloyal honesty (being honest at the expense of one’s own group).

The research team placed college student participants in the experimental study similarly in conditions involving either intergroup competition or no competition. Here the question was whether or not they would lie when their loyalty was triggered. Rather than judging the and ethicality of others, then, participants judged their own behavior. As shown in prior studies, participants were more likely to lie when they thought it would help their own group. In general, they judged their own behavior as less ethical when they lied compared to when they were honest. However, there was an important exception- when they lied to benefit their group, the participants did not see any ethical problem in their own behavior. In fact, they actually saw their behavior as slightly more ethical when they lied compared to when they told the truth. As the authors concluded, “these individuals seemed to ground their self-perceptions in a morally pluralistic framework, focusing on loyalty above and beyond truthfulness as a critical moral dimension in this context” (p. 90). In other words, liars can compartmentalize enough to be able to justify their lying if it serves a purpose of protecting their group. The final study in the series randomly assigned participants in the laboratory simulation to actor or observer role. As in the prior studies, loyal lies received the harshest judgments by observers, but not by the actors themselves.

To sum up, in answer to the article’s title, loyalty really does trump honesty in the view of the person committing the lie. Loyal liars don’t just rationalize their lying after the fact; instead, they have different standards for loyal lying than they do for honesty. Returning to the quandary you find yourself in when you feel you need to lie to get out of a prior obligation, the Cornell-Berkeley study suggests that it’s all too easy to slip into a mode where you see your lying as needed to protect your relationship. This may be fine on an occasional or extreme basis, but it’s quite likely that you can easily slip down that slope into habitual lying. Rather than lie to protect your relationship, then, a dose of honesty may be needed even if it seems difficult at the time. Alternatively, perhaps you shouldn’t lie at all. If you’ve made a social commitment that now seems inconvenient, consider following through on it. You may have a much better time than you realized you would, and the loyalty you show toward those in your life might just provide the basis for more fulfilling .

====== 186 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

November 17 - 23

It's the start of the holiday season, instead of madly consuming, try a little quiet reading with these essays. See what the experts have to say about the mental health of college students, the usefulness of regret, whether "our" universe was made for us, and more.

====== 187 ========

THE COLLEGE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS (UPDATE)

In 2014, I wrote a series on the college student mental health crisis, what may be causing it, and what we might be able to do about it. I receive more inquiries and requests for interviews about this topic than anything else. Because I have explored this issue in more depth, I decided the time was right for an update.

What, exactly, is the “college student mental crisis?” It refers to the fact that (a) significant numbers of college students experience mental health problems (between a quarter and a third at any given time), and (b) over the past 15 to 20 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the demand for mental health services on college campuses.

To give one example of the numbers we are talking about, last month a research report came out that found rates of “past year treatment" had risen from 19% in 2007 to 34% in 2017. In addition, students with lifetime diagnoses increased from 22% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. The trend lines in these categories had been moving up steadily through the 1990s. Here, then, is the nutshell summary of the crisis:

In the 1980s, at any given point, perhaps 1 in 10 college students could be readily characterized as needing/wanting/using some form of mental health treatment. Now that number is 1 in 3, with trend lines rising.

Here is the $64,000 question about these numbers: What is really going on? Are we seeing an “epidemic” of mental illness racing through the country? Or are we seeing a shift in attitudes, definitions, and the expectation of, availability of, and willingness to seek mental health treatment? My opinion is that the primary cause is a change in attitudes and use, with an important secondary cause being an actual increase in emotional fragility and distress (and thus an increase in and depressive conditions).

The first point is certainly true. That is, there have been major changes how people think about mental health and major increases in folks’ willingness to use mental health services. This attitude change is clearly one major reason for the difference. Some scholars argue that attitude change and a willingness to seek treatment is the only reason for the shift. In this interpretation of the crisis, people were suffering with mental illness in the 1980s and '90s at similar rates as they are now, but they were much less likely to talk about their problems openly and much more reluctant to seek treatment (perhaps because of stigma) or had less knowledge or access to do so.

Fellow PT blogger Todd Kashdan, a psychologist for whom I have much respect, recently made this case. He acknowledged that students are in some ways more sensitive and prone to anxiety, but argued against an epidemic of mental illness. He offered data from three sources that suggest that mental health problems have not gotten worse. For example, a major National Co-morbidity Study found that just about 30% of people surveyed between 1990-1992 had a mental health condition and almost the exact same percentage was found in those surveyed between 2000-2002. However, despite similar base rates, the numbers of folks who sought treatment had almost doubled in the same period. Ronald Pies has made a similar argument, namely that what has changed is treatment-seeking behavior, rather than actual levels of mental illness.

Although their arguments are important, the data they report are not the only data on this topic. I see a number of indicators that things have actually gotten worse, especially when we look at this generation and data in the last decade.

Some general population level data do suggest fairly stable trend lines (such as those reports offered by Kashdan and Pies). At the same time, there are some data suggesting general levels of well-being and happiness in the country as a whole are decreasing somewhat. It is clear that we are witnessing disturbing trends in some specific populations in the U.S. For example, we have definitely seen substantial increases in rates of suicide, substance misuse, and depression in certain demographics, such as middle age, lower-class whites.

Trend lines in adolescents and young adults also show evidence of increases in psychopathology. Jean Twenge has been tracking cohort data carefully and has found significant changes in stress, depression and anxiety. The NIMH has found an increase in the frequency of Major Depressive Disorder diagnoses in adolescents. The rate was 7.9% in 2006 and jumped to 12.8% in 2016. That is almost a 50% increase, based on good diagnostic assessments (not service utilization). The suicide rate for adolescents and young adults (per 100,000 people) also has seen a jump. It was 9.9 in 2006 and 13.5 in 2016. Again, about a 50% increase in the past decade. These are substantial changes and are not self-report or treatment-use data.

A similar pattern is found if we compare college student self-report data on feeling distress. The American College Health Association puts out an annual report based on large surveys of college students. I pulled scores from 2008 and compared them to scores in 2017 on feeling overwhelming anxiety, , , and ideation, both in the past two weeks and in the past year.

Source: Gregg Henriques

Source: Gregg Henriques

As depicted in these graphics, we see a substantial increase in rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and some increase in loneliness.

In sum, there are a number of data pointing to actual increases in rates of mental illness/distress. The strongest data point to this being a generational phenomenon with increases in children, adolescents and young adults emerging since the 2000s. I should comment here that this is not something that has to do with college students per se. That is, there is not much reason to suppose that college students would be worse off in terms of mental health than those who don’t go to college.

The take-home message is this: The college student mental health crisis refers to the massive increase in treatment-seeking in college students. Whereas perhaps 10% were self-identified and seeking treatment in the 1980s, now approximately 33% are. This massive rise is likely a function of both more accepting attitudes about reporting distress and seeking and receiving treatment, and actual increases in , anxiety, and depression and other related problems.

There are no signs of this abating. Indeed, when I spoke about the trend with Dr. David Onestak, the Director of the Counseling Center at James Madison University, he made the point that we should no longer call it a "crisis" because it has been going on for more than a decade and does not appear to be slowing down. Rather, this distressing state of affairs seems to be the “new normal.”

My next post will be on why things have changed and will offer some resources for what we should be doing about it.

====== 188 ========

WHAT TO DO WITH FEELINGS OF REGRET

One of the most frequently experienced emotions is regret. Feelings of regret can stem from looking back on past behaviors and decisions and believing that a better outcome may have occurred if a different choice was made. Topics that seem to elicit the most regret are , , romance, , self, and leisure (Newall, Chipperfield, Daniels, Hladkyj, & Perry, 2009; Roese & Summerville, 2005).

When having regret, a person can experience emotional, , and neurophysiological effects. Regret is often accompanied by other negative emotions such as , disappointment, self-blame, and frustration. In addition, people frequently engage in cognitive exercises trying to understand why they made a poor decision or acted as they did, and what other choices they could have made to reap a better outcome. Moreover, regret activates certain areas of the cortex region of the (viz., lateral orbitofrontal, dorsomedial prefrontal).

Researchers differ as to what stimulates regret. Some argue that “opportunity breeds” regret—meaning that regret is strongest under conditions when a “correction” action exists (the “opportunity principle”). For example, many people experience regret over the extent of their education; yet, the opportunity to rectify this “deficit” remains open for most people. It is the availability that spurs regret.

An argument for supporting the “opportunity principle” is that there are few rationalizations that can effectively diminish the “stewing” of regret because actions that can address it are still accessible. Under this theory, feelings of regret will continue until a corrective action is taken (Roese & Summerville, 2005).

Other researchers, however, believe that feelings of regret are more likely to occur and more prominent under situations when there is no opportunity to rectify the decision or action (Beike, Markman, & Karadogan, 2009). That is, the opportunity that existed before and was not taken advantage of is now lost. It can be argued that age is a factor which can affect available opportunities. Theoretically, education can be obtained at any age; however, it is not as easy for older aged individuals. Similarly, finding romance late in life is more difficult than when one is younger, and the field is more open.

Excuses can be of little help in assuaging the pain of regret when little to no opportunity exists to correct the person’s poor decision or behavior (e.g., because of time or scarce resources). People may berate themselves for letting an opportunity pass by that cannot be obtained later.

Regret can be an aversive emotion impacting life-satisfaction. However, if regret is confronted appropriately, it can have a positive effect. Regret can lead to a retrospective analysis that may help people understand the reason why they thought or acted as they did. At that time, there may have been a specific reason. By making sense of their past thoughts or actions, individuals may:

Feel less pain, remorse, and self-condemnation.

Change their thoughts and behavior to that which will now lead to a desired outcome.

Learn from their mistakes and incorporate this into their subsequent decisions and actions.

More specifically, what can people do to accentuate the positive and reduce the negative effects of regret? Newall et al., (2009) and Bjälkebring, Västfjäll, Svenson, & Slovic (2016) offer some of the following suggestions:

Do not let feelings of regret “eat you up" Engage in and do not allow regret to become overwhelming If necessary, suppress the feelings

Do not repeat in your mind “if only” thinking Accept what happened and come to terms with it Accept that there are some instances or events that are out of your control Accept that no life can be lived without regrets

Do not exaggerate personal responsibility and harbor great self-blame

Forecast regret By preparing yourself, it may lessen the surprise and pain

Look for the benefits that derive from regret. How did it encourage you to Better understand yourself Make yourself a better person

Overcome feelings of regret by doing reparative actions Apologize to those you hurt Do not procrastinate in correcting your poor judgment or action Consider opportunities more fully and take advantage of those you might otherwise have let slip by

Instead of focusing on the negative outcomes of regret, be more mindful of how regret has stimulated Learning from experience Growth and positive changes in you



Regret is an emotional mechanism. If one ruminates on lost opportunities, then regret becomes maladaptive and can stymie growth. On the other hand, if regret reminds us that our time is short and that opportunities may be transitory, it helps us strive for a life well-lived.

====== 189 ========

A UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? STATISTICS AND THE MULTIVERSE

In parts one and two of this four-part series, I looked at the vexed question of whether the universe was somehow – and by Someone – fine-tuned for us. There may not be a genuine, no-nonsense, unequivocal answer, but there is much to be learned by merging statistics, logic, and common sense, especially when it comes to the difference between probabilities before and after an event, and much head-scratching occasioned by the multiverse hypothesis.

For example, philosopher Niall Shanks asks us to imagine shuffling a deck of cards and then dealing them out, face down. What is the likelihood that someone could predict the entire sequence, in advance, and without any hanky-panky? The chance of getting the first card correct is 1 in 52. The chance of getting the first two cards correct is 1/52 x 1/51 = 1/2652, and so on, so that the probability of guessing the entire deck in the proper order is 1/52!. (The notation "!” in mathematics is described as “factorial,” with 52! = 52 x 51 x 50 ... x 1.) This is an unimaginably small number, something like one in ten followed by 60 zeros. And yet, it is also true that the chance of the cards having been dealt in the order that actually occurred is 100 percent. They had to come out some way, and among the near-infinite number of possibilities, one in particular actually emerged. Is that astounding? Yes, if you concern yourself with the chance of that precise outcome before it happened. But no, if you look at the post-hoc outcome, knowing that it had to be one way or another.

Alternatively, consider the probabilities before versus after a simple physical event, such as the position of a golf ball before versus after a golfer hits it. It would take a near-miracle to identify, in advance, the precise eventual location of that ball. But the outcome – wherever the ball ends up – isn’t miraculous at all, nor is it evidence of divine intervention or of the golf course having been designed so as to arrange that particular eventual placement of the ball since it had to be somewhere. Even though any one specific location is extraordinarily unlikely, it is even less likely that the ball would have disappeared entirely, or had it landed atop the flat head of a hippo. For us to marvel at the fact of our existing (in a universe that permits that existence) is comparable to a golf ball being astounded at the fact that it ended up someplace.

There are many ways to interpret what might be called the unexpectedness of our existence, none of which necessarily supports the claim that we must attribute that existence to particular pre-planning, by the cosmos and for us. Every person exists because a particular egg (one out of roughly 500 ovulated by his or her mother over the latter's lifetime) encountered a particular sperm (one out of roughly 150 million produced by his or her father in a single ejaculation). Every member of the human population – roughly 7.5 billion – can, therefore, insist that his or her existence was fore-ordained, evidence of a kind of me-thropic principle.

For a more wide-ranging example, the Chicxulub asteroid crashed into what is today Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula 66 million years ago, eventually wiping out the dinosaurs and clearing a path for the rise of mammals and eventually, us. Without that impact and the ecological niches that were opened up by the demise of those previously dominant dinosaurs, it is extremely unlikely that our species would ever have evolved. Had things proceeded differently, the prospect is vanishingly smaller yet that I would be writing this blog, or that you would be reading it.

Should we therefore see the Chicxulub impact as further evidence that our planet was fine-tuned, with my writing and your reading in mind? And that the dinosaurs’ destruction was mere collateral damage en route to the ultimate goal of creating Homo sapiens roughly 65 million years later? If so, then we are responsible for that asteroid and were it not for the universe’s goal of producing us, T. rex and company would still be around. Mazel tov! We really are important!

Physics has additional possible explanations for what masquerades as cosmic fine-tuning. Of these, one of the more intriguing (albeit difficult to grasp) is the possibility of “multiverses,” which revisits the question of probabilities before versus after an event, albeit in somewhat different guise. Here is astrophysicist Martin Rees:

"There may be many “universes” of which ours is just one. In the others, some laws and physical constants would be different. But our universe would not be just a random one. It would belong to an unusual subset that offered a habitat conducive to the emergence of complexity and consciousness. The analogy of the watchmaker would be off the mark. Instead, the cosmos may have something in common with an off-the-rack clothes shop: if the shop has a large stock, we are not surprised to find one suit that fits. Likewise, if our universe is selected from a multiverse, its seemingly designed or fine-tuned features would not be surprising.[i]."

Under the multiverse hypothesis, there is not only a potentially infinite number of universes, but the basic physical laws and constants might well vary across them. It is a radically difficult concept, but perhaps no weirder than basic quantum mechanics, which we now know to be valid. It was recently reported that there are something like two trillion galaxies in the currently known universe, which is about 20 times more than had previously been thought.[ii] Each galaxy consists of millions – in some cases, billions – of stars, many of which have their own planets. And although it appears that the fundamental physical constants hold across the known galaxies, the mere fact that there are so many (the overwhelming majority of which are not in any meaningful sense “known”) opens the possibility that our Earthly experience may be a small subset of the possible – even without introducing the prospect of multiple universes.

Niall Shanks suggests that the multiverse hypothesis “does to the anthropic universe what Copernicus’s heliocentric hypothesis did to the cosmological vision of the Earth as a fixed center of the universe.”[iii] Now, post-Copernicus (and Kepler, Galileo and others), the Earth is known to be just one planet among many, in one galaxy among many. Perhaps we’re just the occupants of one universe among many. Interestingly, even as he demoted the Earth, Copernicus himself placed the Sun in the center of the universe, just as he assumed that planetary orbits were perfect circles, an assumption that was widespread in early astronomy, based on the notion that the “heavenly bodies” are necessarily perfect, just as, in their geometry, circles are perfect. Galileo, too, assumed that planetary orbits were circular; it wasn’t until Kepler – using data from the aforementioned Tycho Brahe - that astronomers recognized they are elliptical. The cosmos, like the human body, is far from perfect. But like the human body and the bodies of all other organisms, it is good enough to have permitted us and them to exist.

In my next and final post on the question of whether the universe is anthropic, we’ll take a look at quantum weirdness, along with other weirdnesses.

David P. Barash is professor of psychology emeritus at the University of Washington. His most recent book relevant to this topic is Through a Glass Brightly: using science to see our species as we really are (2018, Oxford University Press).

[i] Martin Rees. 2001. Our Cosmic Habitat. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[ii] .com/news/universe-has-ten-times-more-galaxies-than-researchers-thought-1.20809

[iii] Niall Shanks. 2004. God, the Devil, and Darwin. New York: Oxford University Press.

====== 190 ========

HOW MANY FACES DO YOU KNOW?

Source: TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock

Throughout our lives, we commit faces to . We can recall classmates from elementary school, neighbors who share our morning commute, and the actors in our favorite television shows. But how many of those faces are stashed in a permanent mental repository?

Researchers at the University of York sought to pin down that number—estimating that people know an average of 5,000 faces. And that figure simply represents the number of faces we might know, not the number we are capable of knowing.

“We may not have an upper limit for face learning,” says Rob Jenkins, the lead author of the study, which was published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The thousands of faces we commit to memory may only be the tip of the iceberg for this mental capacity.

Jenkins and his colleagues asked 25 participants, between 18 and 61 years old, to list people whose faces they would clearly recognize. The researchers helped by providing prompts to consider specific social niches, such as colleagues, of family, and retail staff. Participants also listed every famous figure they would recognize.

Next, the investigators showed participants a slideshow of famous faces and calculated a ratio based on the number of faces they recognized in the lineup and the number of famous faces they had initially said they would recognize. (This was not done with non-famous faces, since it wasn’t feasible to collect photos of them.) Applying that ratio to participants' self-generated lists of both famous and non-famous faces allowed the researchers to arrive at a final estimate.

The concluded that on average, participants’ minds held an inventory of roughly 5,000 faces. The capacity differed greatly between participants, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. That variation may be due in part to the in which someone was raised—a rural or urban area, for example—as well as their level of exposure, Jenkins speculates.

As humans transitioned from living in small, tight-knit communities to a large, interconnected world, the ability for facial learning appears to be up to the task. “It seems that if you’re building equipment that allows you to differentiate between a couple of hundred individuals, in doing that you’re building apparatus that’s also good for several thousand,” Jenkins says. “Maybe you can’t achieve the former aim without incidentally gaining the additional capacity we use now.”

The collection of faces we know is impressive given that learning a new face requires observing and internalizing the same visage with various expressions, at different ages, and in assorted contexts. A face can look different when its owner puts on makeup, gets a haircut, ages five years, or appears in a darkened restaurant rather than a brightly lit room. “The key to learning each face is learning the person’s variability,” Jenkins says. “You have to be exposed to the way the face changes.” (Importantly, people generally tend to be poor at remembering faces they encountered only briefly, he says. That deficit becomes exceedingly important in legal or forensic situations, such as during eyewitness testimony.)

Identifying how many faces people recognize—and how those faces become familiar—is relevant for deficits of face perception, says Wilma Bainbridge, a post-doctoral researcher at the National Institute of Mental who studies the perception and memorability of images. For example, she suggests, face vocabulary could potentially be used as a marker of perceptual decline in the course of Alzheimer’s disease.

The also possesses a strong capacity for object memory, yet evidence suggests that faces require a unique form of processing, Bainbridge says. Humans are drawn to the geometry of faces from an early age: Research demonstrates that infants show a preference for an image of two dots above a third (which more closely mimics a face) compared to two dots below a third. Faces are also visually potent; another study found that photographs with faces were more memorable than those without faces, as measured by a computer game asking participants whether they had seen a given image before.

Evolutionary adaptiveness can help explain humans’ skill for face memory in particular. Faces that embody more emotion or threat are especially enduring, Bainbridge says. “It may be less important to know a familiar or unfamiliar place, because you can take time to explore,” Bainbridge says. “But it could be really important to pick out your friends and your enemies.”

====== 191 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

Source: Pixabay

When I give talks demonstrating that we all have innate psychological predispositions – traits that influence our behavior across our lifetimes – I often get asked what implications this has for . If our behaviors are affected in some way by our genes or by the way our brains are wired, doesn’t that mean that we’re really not that free after all?

The answer depends, I think, on the kind of free will you’re after and on an of the mechanisms by which we make choices. And let me say at the outset that we do make choices. The idea that has somehow done away with free will altogether or proven that it is an illusion is nonsense. All neuroscience has shown is that when you are making decisions, things are happening in your brain.

This is, to put it mildly, not a surprise: Where else would things be happening? And it really has no implications for free will, unless you are a dualist. If you think of the mind as some kind of object that has existence independent of the brain, then I suppose you might be upset to find that your decisions have a physical basis in brain activity. But if you think of “mind” not as an object but as an activity or process – the brain in action – then, well, seeing the brain in action as you make a decision is just what you’d expect.

So, yes, we make choices – really, really. But how free are those choices? How much are they constrained by other things over which we really have no control? How much are they affected by antecedent causes?

In particular, if I have some psychological traits over which I had (and continue to have) no control, and those traits influence my behavior (or at least my behavioral tendencies) then am I really fully in control of my own actions? If someone asks me to a party and I decide not to go, is that because I’m wired to be shy? Perhaps I could have chosen to go, and maybe sometimes I do, but maybe only because I happen to be in a sociable mood or feeling brave that day, and maybe I am not in control of that either.

Well, the first thing to say is that this problem arises no matter the origin of our psychological traits. In my book INNATE, I present the evidence that variation in and in the processes of brain development lead to innate psychological differences between people, which affect the trajectory of their lives, influencing their experiences, the way they react to them, and the types of habitual behaviors they develop. But if you’d rather believe—in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence—that all such traits come completely from experience instead, the problem is just as acute.

If we each have real and stable characteristics of temperament and , then it doesn’t really matter for this question of free will whether they came from genetics and brain development, or our experiences and . In either situation, some antecedent causes have affected the physical structures of our brains in a way that influences our decisions, right now, at this moment. In which case, you could argue, that our will is not so free after all.

In one sense, this is trivial – our decisions, in any given situation, are of course affected by our prior experiences and our current . The whole point of having a brain is that it lets you learn from the results of actions you have taken in the past in various types of scenarios. That information is then used to predict the outcomes of a range of possible actions that could be taken when such a scenario is encountered again.

I don’t think anyone sees that as undermining our free will – indeed, you could say that choosing between those options, based on what we have learned of the world, in order to further our own goals, is the process of free will in action.

It is the idea that the options open to us are constrained somehow by our underlying psychological predispositions that seems to threaten our freedom.

And this does seem to be the case. In the first instance, the range of options that even occur to us – that somehow arise in our brains for consideration – is limited by our personality traits and experiences. Two different people in ostensibly the same situation, with the same primary goal, may nevertheless be choosing from a very different set of possible actions. This is because the interplay of their underlying traits and their experiences across their lives will have created a very different set of additional goals, constraints, and heuristics.

For example, two people in a meeting may share a goal of advancing their ideas on some topic under discussion. But one of them may have a conflicting goal – avoid social at all costs. This may be due to a natural inclination towards , reinforced by a lifetime of experience, where social interaction is not as intrinsically rewarding as it is for other people, and where the subjective feeling of embarrassment is more acutely felt.

Even if it is not consciously perceived, that goal of avoiding embarrassment may act as a powerful constraint on the person’s behavior. They may come home and complain to their partner how they’d wished they’d been brave enough to speak up – instead, stupid Gary who never shuts up dominated the meeting as usual and ended up getting his way. “I wish I had more !”, they might say, conceding that their conscious desires were somehow thwarted by their underlying psychological make-up. ]

The decider-in-chief

This seems to be the type of thing people are worrying about when confronted with the evidence that we really do have lasting psychological traits that influence our behavior. And this worry appears to be more keenly felt when such traits are shown to have a physical basis in the way our brains are wired. It seems to threaten the primacy of our conscious selves in the process.

Perhaps we’re like a puppet president – making “decisions” about what to do, but only from the highly limited set of options presented to us by the generals and civil servants – limited based on criteria we are never aware of. Or maybe we’re not even really making the decisions at all – perhaps even that stage of the process is dominated by factors. Maybe we’re like a magician’s stooge, impelled to make certain decisions through influences beyond our apprehension, with only an illusion of control.

Personally, I think this goes too far. It can certainly be demonstrated that many of the decisions we make are affected by things of which we are not aware. That does not mean that all the decisions we make are like that. Even if we’re on autopilot most of the time, that doesn’t mean we can’t ever take the controls. And anyway, being on cognitive autopilot most of the time is not necessarily a bad thing – quite the opposite, in fact.

The last thing we would want is to have to make decisions from first principles every time we are doing something. If we had to consciously weigh up every aspect of every decision in every situation we find ourselves in we’d be paralyzed by indecision. And we’d quickly be some other critter’s lunch. Life comes at you fast: Vacillate and die.

Habits and heuristics

Instead, most of our behavior is effectively habitual. We learn from experience over our lifetimes that certain behaviors are profitable or appropriate in certain situations – these are the heuristics that subconsciously guide most of our actions. And our behavior is even shaped by our ancestor’s experiences, in the sense that we have inherited a suite of genetically determined behavioral tendencies that were adaptive in the environments and scenarios that our ancestors tended to find themselves in in the past.

Now, some people argue that if we can’t make decisions that are completely divorced from any preceding events, effects, or causes, that we are not really completely free at all. But why would we want to do that? Totally free decisions, uninformed by any prior events, would be essentially random and pointless (and highly likely to get you killed sooner or later).

Being free – to my mind at least – doesn’t mean making decisions for no reasons, it means making them for your reasons. Indeed, I would argue that this is exactly what is required to allow any kind of continuity of the self. If you were just doing things on a whim all the time, what would it mean to be you? We accrue our habits and beliefs and intentions and goals over our lifetime, and they collectively affect how actions are suggested and evaluated.

Whether we are conscious of that is another question. Most of our reasons for doing things are tacit and implicit – they’ve been wired into our nervous systems without our even being aware of them. But they’re still part of us ­– you could argue they’re precisely what makes us us. Even if most of that decision-making happens subconsciously, it’s still you doing it.

Ultimately, whether you think you have free will or not may depend less on the definition of “free will” and more on the definition of “you." If you identify just as the president – the decider-in-chief – then maybe you’ll be dismayed at how little control you seem to have or how rarely you really exercise it. (Not never, but maybe less often than your ego might like to think).

But that brings us back to a very dualist position, identifying you with only your conscious mind, as if it can somehow be separated from all the underlying workings of your brain. Perhaps it’s more appropriate to think that you really comprise all of the machinery of , even the bits that the president never sees or is not even aware exists.

That machinery is shaped by our shared evolutionary past, by each individual’s genetic heritage, by the particular trajectories of development of their brain, and by their accumulated experiences over their lifetime. Those things all shape the way we tend to behave in any given circumstance. That doesn’t mean we can never exercise deliberative and conscious control over our decisions – just that most of the time we don’t (in part because most of the time we don’t need to).

Can we choose not to be a certain way? No, probably not. But can we choose to act in a certain way despite having opposing tendencies – yes, absolutely, in some circumstances at least. This may be effortful – it may require habits of introspection and a high degree of self-awareness and – but it can clearly be done. In fact, one of the strongest pieces of evidence that we really do have free will is that some people seem to have more of it than others.

====== 192 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

How do we make nudges work better, and for longer? By better characterizing the environment in which we want to improve the decisions people make.

====== 193 ========

WHY MANY WOMEN DON’T FEEL THANKFUL ON THANKSGIVING

Behind every beautiful thanksgiving dinner and touching family photograph lies hours and hours of hard labor, which probably was performed by a woman.

Now this is not true for every family. In some families, everyone contributes to planning, cleaning, cooking, and hosting. In other families, one person (often but not always a woman) does the bulk of the work but truly finds it a labor of . If one of those scenarios apply to you, or if you have a different way of celebrating (or not celebrating) the holiday that you enjoy, you might not find this post relevant.

However, if you are one of the many women who are overwhelmed and exhausted, and yet somehow have carved out the time to read this post, this one is for you.

To understand where we are today in terms of and the holidays, it’s helpful to think about the broader context of gender and (paid and unpaid) labor.

The US Department of Labor gathers data on who is working, how many hours, and where. In the 1960s, men and women actually worked about the same number of hours per week. However, men typically worked outside the home, and women typically worked inside the home. Since the 1960s, women have increased the number of hours that they work outside the home, and men have increased the number of hours that they work inside the home. However, the increases have not been at the same rate. The number of hours that women work outside the home has increased more than the number of hours that men work inside the home. This means that women are still doing more housework and childcare than men. This also means that the total number of hours worked per week (hours outside the home + hours inside the home) is greater for women then men. The difference is relatively small; women work about five hours more per week than men. Still, women would probably like those hours back. Across a month, this would add up to 20 hours that they could use however they wanted!

In fact, the data show that men typically devote their five extra hours each week to leisure. Like watching football on TV. Which brings us back to Thanksgiving…

With this in mind, it is not surprising that women do most of the work on Thanksgiving. They typically do most of the work at home, and the “traditional” of Thanksgiving probably exacerbates this. At Thanksgiving, people often want to do things like their did, and their grandparents did, which makes it even more likely that the work required to celebrate the holiday will fall to women.

Moreover, the extra work that women do is not limited to cooking and cleaning. Women also typically manage the social and emotional tone of the day. This is referred to as emotional labor. Sociologist Arlie Hochschlid coined this term in the context of the , but the term applies to the home as well. Examples include (but are not limited to): making sure that conservative Aunt Sally is not seated next to cousin Frank who’s studying at Berkley, getting all of the invitations out within a matter of minutes so that no one feels that they were invited last (and doing so without using social or texting because that would be tacky), and providing children with activities and entertainment that are neither boring nor overstimulating.

Is it really surprising, then, that many women do not feel all that on Thanksgiving? Sure, in the big picture they are thankful for their family and loved ones and the opportunity to be together. However, expecting a person who got up at 4am to stuff a cold turkey to be happy, relaxed, and feeling thankful at 4pm may not be realistic.

With that in mind, here are a few tips for the day.

1. Don’t pressure yourself to feel thankful. It’s ok not to feel all that thankful on Thanksgiving. Maybe you will feel thankful on a different, less hectic day instead. Mixed feelings also are allowed. Whatever you feel is valid and no one can take that away from you.

2. Make minor changes. If you typically do all of the heavy lifting on Thanksgiving, major changes are probably not going to happen in (literally) a day. However, delegate as much as you can, from setting the table to playing with small children so that they are not underfoot. You may think that asking for help with small things won’t make a difference, but it adds up.

3. Lay the groundwork for next year. If you want share responsibility for the holiday more equitably in the future, now is a good time to lay the groundwork. When people ask how you’re doing, it is ok to say that you are a little tired, stressed, etc. and that maybe next year you should not try to do it all yourself. Hopefully, this will plant a seed for change.

4. Plan a time just for you. Mark off at least an hour to do something that you want to after the celebration is over. Sitting down with a cup of tea or a glass of wine to read a book or enjoying a bubble bath are good choices. (Please note that your activity cannot be combined with something that you already planned to do for others, such as going for pedicures with your six nieces who range in age from preschool to high school). When things get hectic or stressful during the holiday, picture that moment when you will sit quietly with a book or slide into your bath.

5. Think about next year. When it is all over, spend some time thinking about what you would like to stay the same for next year and what you would like to change. Then, in the coming months, make time to talk honestly with others about this. Conversations about switching up who does what for the holidays will go more smoothly ahead of time than in the heat of the moment.

Time is getting short, and I should leave you now to bake pies and peel potatoes. To sign off, I will not say “Have a Happy Thanksgiving!!” to those of you feel stressed or overwhelmed. Instead, I will say that I hope that you can find some happy moments during your busy holiday. Good luck, ladies. And Godspeed!

Postscript: This post refers to how men and women spend their time on average, not to every man or woman. If you are a man, and are reading a Psychology Today post about how gender dynamics affect the division of labor on holidays, there is a good chance that you already are the type of guy who is doing his fair share preparing for the day. If that’s the case, make sure to get in on the tea, wine, or bubble bath when the day has come to an end….

====== 194 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

Source: D. Erdmann & D. Blankenstein, mit freudnlicher Genehmigung

You can’t go home again. —Thomas Wolfe

Yes, you can. —Homer (implied)

The trope of going native is familiar and poorly understood (Krueger, 2017). Some hipsters and other adolescents take a playful transitional approach, experimenting with garb or hairdos before returning to the square & normative. When going native becomes a deeper project, what does it do to a person’s ? How does he [bear with me on the choice of ] see himself and how do others see him? How do these perceptions differ between the members of his original and his adopted group?

Alexander von Humboldt, though “interested in everything” famously resisted going native, while is friend Bonpland, a French botanist, did. Humboldt returned to his ancestral Berlin; Bonpland settled in Argentina, growing crops and fathering children. Humboldt, here above chilling poolside in Mérida, inspired a series of conferences, which explore psychological, sociological, historical, and literary aspects of travel. I signed up to discuss Gonzalo Guerrero.

Source: J. Krueger

In the Yucatán peninsula, Gonzalo Guerrero is the archetype of going native. More myth than man, we can’t be sure that he existed, but this is not essential to this story. We do know that he looms large in the Yucatec imagination. According to the Spanish chroniclers of the late 16th Century, who are less than completely reliable, Gonzalo was cast away on the shore now known as the Mayan Riviera, before rising to prominence among a Mayan group in the Chetumal region. He led them in war against their neighbors and then again against Spanish intruders, and he fathered the first generation of mestizos. For Gonzalo, going native was a survival strategy. The legends that have grown up around him emphasize his martial prowess, and various statues depict him as a warrior. His Spanish family name having been lost, Gonzalo is now remembered as Gonzalo Guerrero, Gonzalo the Warrior. A painting by Fernando Castro Pacheco, displayed in the Palacio del Gobierno in Mérida, highlights a different aspect (see photo to the left). Here, Gonzalo is seen clutching his family and looking vulnerable. The play of light enhances him and his psychological tension. His family remains in the shadows, perhaps to remind us of essential differences. This painting is remarkable in its departure from the Gonzalo’s iconic statuary representation. In stone, Gonzalo presents as strong, defiant, and bearded, but otherwise fully Mayanized. In the painting, we get a glimpse of going-native as a process ridden with conflict.

Oddly, psychological science has little to say about the concept of going native. Where are the theories and empirical studies? Research is squarely focused on issues of immigration, assimilation, dual consciousness, and bi- or multi-culturalism. Important as these issues are, they fail to plumb the experience of those individuals who penetrate an alien culture, thereby risking to be radically transformed. Social psychology, as a , has a tradition of focusing on the experience of disempowered groups. This concern may have created a blind spot for the concept of going native because – hipsters aside – this concept is tied to European expansion, domination, and colonialism. It is here that those who go native swim against a most powerful historical current. The default perception is to see these anadromous adventurers as traitors and savages-by-choice. In the subcontinental Indian context, for example, Kipling warned such types to “never forget that one is a Sahib” (cited in White, 2010).

It may be difficult to think of specific historical examples of individuals gone native, but it seems safe to say that the concept has a foothold in the European imagination; it evokes images and possibilities both alluring and forbidden. With reliable historical data being scarce, a handful of literary treatments drive the dominant narrative. At the extremes, we find characters like the Earl of Greystoke, whose natives are not even human, or the demonic Colonel Walter Kurtz, who loses his mind (“The horror!”). In our time of industrial cultural production, the threat and of going native is occasionally resolved by a hero who becomes a native to save the natives. John Dunbar dances with wolves to save the Lakota, and the disabled anti-hero Jake Sully in James Cameron’s Avatar scores a triumphant victory over white industrial man (Krueger, 2010). He achieves this victory by going native more fully than anyone before. He is embodied as one. Hence the Avatar.

There is an instructive difference here. Dunbar returns to the white man’s world, presumably in yet another attempt to do good for the natives, whereas Sully’s mind is eventually made to reside in the Avatar in permanencia. Dunbar reconnects with ‘home,’ whereas Sully cuts all ties. Sully drinks up the cup of going native. Dunbar, in other words, leans on the mythology of the Odyssey, where the trials and tribulations of life are eventually rewarded with a hero’s return (Humboldt), whereas Sully chooses irrevocable immersion (Bonpland). Gonzalo though, if he existed, was the real Avatar. Flores (2012) notes both visual and psychological similarities. Both the Avatar and Gonzalo fight on the side of and the natives against European expansion and destruction. Gonzalo loses in the short term, but re-emerges as the Urvater (first father) of a new ; the Avatar wins in a Hollywoodian happy ending, which must come as a decisive victory of good over evil.

Across the types of Tarzan, Kurtz, Costner, and the Avatar, we encounter key elements of the European imagination: the fascination with nature, and creatures living in harmony with it. The desire to have what they have, and to take it from them by force. Then, there is the of being overwhelmed by nature and the natives, of not being able to cope with their very different world, and to either die or be swallowed up. This is a form of ego anxiety ( , 1965/1933). The emotional base of European supremacy is ambivalent (Ullrich & Krueger, 2010).

Returning to Gonzalo, we must concede that we know very little about him. One man who became obsessed with Gonzalo is Canadian Professor of English Robert Calder, who after decades of searching for Gonzalo wrote a wonderful book to introduce us to the legend and the few bits of evidence that have been handed down (Calder, 2017; see also Fray Diego de Landa’s, 1566, summary). Gonzalo is not a capitan, he is a marinero. His ship sinks in a storm (Odysseus), and he and some shipmates wash up on the Yucatec shore. The local Maya capture and eat most of them, but they save Gonzalo and a few others to be fattened first and eaten later. Gonzalo and a padre by the name of Jerónimo de Aguilar escape and wind up with a friendlier group of Maya down near Chetumal. They are still slaves, but they manage to build trust and obtain privileges.

The plot thickens when Gonzalo’s and Jerónimo’s strategies diverge. Gonzalo goes native, while Jerónimo holds on to as much of his Spanish identity as he can. To Jerónimo, Catholicism and the Crown remain anchors, while Gonzalo transforms his body with tattoos and piercings. He could shave his beard, but, like another Mexican icon of the blessed imagination – the most interesting man in the world – he chooses not to. To these Maya, Gonzalo’s martial skills make him more valuable alive than dead. Nachán Ka’an, the cacique, uses him against his neighbors and later against the Spanish. Jerónimo has a harder time. He bets on total submission. One of his strategies is to convince his captors that he will not bother their women. They test his will by sending a beautiful girl to tempt him; Jerónimo resists – or so he says. As Gonzalo earns the chief’s trust, he is eventually made a captain (Nakom) to lead warriors, and given the hand of the chief’s daughter, Zazil Há. Gonzalo makes war and . From a sociological standpoint, his assimilation is now complete. He has gone fully native. From a psychological standpoint, certain questions remain. How has his identity, his self-conception changed? Can we even know?

Jerónimo is our only source, and perhaps he made it all up. When Cortés lands in the Yucatán, Jerónimo tells him that there is another Spaniard in the selva. Cortés tells Jerónimo to fetch him, and Jerónimo goes and pleads with Gonzalo to return to the Spanish banner. Gonzalo declines, pointing to his commitments, some of which (e.g., his tattoos, his family) are irreversible. Conceivably, Gonzalo is making a rational decision, judging correctly that he would not be able to function again in the Spanish context. He realizes perhaps that he who has gone native will be viewed with suspicion upon return. Gonzalo cannot go back because his transformed body marks him as a heathen. Indeed, in an attempt to make sense of Gonzalo’s choices, one of the chroniclers, Fernández de Oviedo, speculated Gonzalo was a Muslim, a Jew, or a Converso, but no real Catholic (Calder, 2017). Who else would join the savages?! Clendinnen (cited by Calder, 2017, p. 83) put her finger on the psychological spot when writing that “for one of their own to acquiesce in such filthiness, and to choose it over his own and his own people, was to strike at the heart of their sense of self.” The identity of the native-goer and the identities of the referent groups are interwoven.

I have by necessity emphasized the male and the European perspective. What about the female and Mayan view? Who is Zazil Há, and what is her role in Gonzalo’s transformation? Without her, his fate and story might look rather different. This is a chapter that wants to be written. Meanwhile, we are left to ponder questions of identity that pervade the stories we tell about ourselves (McAdams & McLean, 2013). Extreme cases like Gonzalo are instructive because they highlight conflict and transformation. Such cases are tests of identity. Various parts of the Gonzalo story may resonate with you. Perhaps Gonzalo can encourage us to take another look at where we stand and why. What are the forces that shape us, and how will we respond when a storm throws us up against an unfamiliar shore.

Home to Homer

There is a curious sociological side to the reception of Gonzalo. In the Yucatán, he is widely known and revered. His legend is a rallying point against the official point of view, which still emphasizes the deeds of the conquistadors (in Mérida, these are the Montejos, father and son [el mozo]). The Yucatán is Maya country and far removed from Central Mexico, where the Aztecs provide the indigenous reference point. There, Cortés is credited with creating the race of mestizos with his slave, interpreter, and mistress, La Malinche. Cortés is reviled in the popular imagination there (just look at how Diego Rivera depicted him). Now consider the psychological problem: how can a positive image of an ingroup – here: la raza of mestizos – be constructed on the back of a raptor Urvater? The Yucatecans have solved this problem by embracing Gonzalo. Their ethnic identity is a blend of the Mayan, the mestizo, and the Mexican, and they can trace the mix to someone they can love.

And this is possible, I submit, because Ganzalo took the leap without a safety net. Gonzalo’s journey is not an Odyssey. In the Odyssey, the eventual return home is the engine behind the voyage; in Gonzalo, the hero does not look back to look forward. In conversation in Mérida, colleagues asked me why I did not consider Cabeza de Vaca as an exemplar of going native. Cabeza was shipwrecked in what is now Florida and walked all the way to the city of Mexico, a journey that took him eight years and that gained him repute as a healer and shaman among native populations along the way (Reséndez, 2007). But Cabeza had one goal: to reach home. And he did. He was a modern-day Odysseus. Gonzalo, who took a different path, remains unique and his legend has much to teach us.

Calder, R. (2017). A hero for the Americas: The legend of Gonzalo Guerrero. Regina, Saskatchewan: University of Regina Press.

Flores, L. E. (2012). Avatar o el regreso to Gonzalo Guerrero. La Jornada Semanal, 880. https://www.jornada.com.mx/2012/01/15/sem-luis.html

Freud, S. (1965/1933). New introductory lectures on . ( . James Strachey). Oxford, England: W. W. Norton.

Krueger, J. I. (2010). Back to the story. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/one-among-many/201003/back-the-s...

Krueger, J. I. (2017). Going native. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/one-among-many/201708/going-native

Landa, D. de (1566). Relación de las cosas de Yucatán. 2nd ed. Mérida, Yucatán, September, 2011.

McAdams, D. P., & McLean, K. C. (2013). Narrative Identity. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 22, 233–238.

Reséndez, A. (2007). A journey so strange: The extraordinary tale of a shipwrecked Spaniard who walked across America in the Sixteenth Century. New York: Perseus.

Ullrich, J., & Krueger, J. I. (2010). Interpersonal liking from bivariate attitude similarity. Social Psychology and Science, 1, 214-221.

White, E. R. (2010). In search of identity: Inner diaspora and psychic healing in Rudyard Kipling's Kim and Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children. South Asian Review, 31, 9-26,

====== 195 ========

THANKSGIVING: GRATITUDE OR GRATIFICATION?

Yesterday was the fourth Thursday in November, the day we recognize as Thanksgiving. Like many – though pointedly not all - Americans, the author was fortunate to be in the company of loved ones. As anticipated eagerly, the centerpiece of the event was a carefully prepared, sumptuous dinner. People laughed, teased, and caught each other up with their news. At evening’s end, they sat by a fire telling stories and sharing pictures. Although no one stated this directly, it was clear that everyone felt somehow affirmed and reinvigorated, both for who they have been and for who they will be. Then the visitors got in their cars and went home.

Today is another special day, so-called Black Friday. No has proclaimed this a time of national consolidation; most of us are back at work. But tens of millions are bustling about the stores. Others are on-line. Officially – though unofficially it never ends - the Christmas season is underway. Shoppers dream of special bargains; retailers pray that months of red ink will end. Thank heavens that this year’s date, November 23, is the earliest the event can be.

Such goings-on should make us ponder the character of our country’s celebrations. Who are we as a people? What energizes us? What values do we hold dear?

In any society, public holidays are special moments dedicated to answering the above questions. For the most important of those occasions, workers – at least government workers – have the day off. Schools, post offices, and many other public services are closed. The stock market pauses; banks lock their doors. In the U.S., there are 10 “official” federal holidays:

New Year’s Day (Jan. 1)

Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (3rd Monday in January)

Washington’s Birthday (3rd Monday in February)

Memorial Day (last Monday in May)

Independence Day (July 4)

Labor Day (first Monday in September)

Columbus Day (first Monday in October)

Veterans Day (November 11)

Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November)

Christmas Day (December 25)

As the reader can see, the holidays are of different sorts. Two celebrate the sacrifices of soldiers; one, of working people. There is remembrance of a president, an explorer, and a social reformer. A day of nation founding is marked; so is a key holiday. One holiday (with its preceding night of revelry) is just a calendar beginning. Finally, there is Thanksgiving.

Other publicly celebrated times – such as Valentine’s Day, Saint Patrick’s Day, Easter, and Halloween – are not federally recognized. Nor is that mammoth sporting event, the Super Bowl.

Although U.S. holidays are distinctive in their purposes and origins – and in the political wrangles that led to their enshrinement – those differences tend to be blurred or assimilated by the general culture of the society, and particularly by its commercial culture. Put simply, most are now occasions to shop, travel, and be entertained.

Contrast this with some not so distant centuries in European history, when holidays were indeed holy days. Sometimes they featured parades down thoroughfares, with key social groups claiming their positions in line. Celebrants gathered in common spaces or churchyards. Under religious auspices, people made their own fun, romping together. Different ages, genders, occupations, and social ranks mixed. Childlike behaviors were encouraged; so were minor acts of disrespect and impiety. There were and games; food and drink were abundant. In such ways, local communities proclaimed their identities. In an age of arduous existence, holidays were times to relax and refresh oneself – and to explore alternative value systems that challenged secular hierarchies and their codes of conduct.

Pointedly then, holidays are times to stop and reconsider the character of one’s life, to dabble in unusual behaviors, and to dream of new ways of living. Routines, particularly work routines, should pause. Normally dispersed people should unite. At such moments, the present swings loose from its normal placement in the scheme of things. The past blooms. And the future takes on newly imagined themes.

For such reasons, let people remember fallen heroes, ponder founding principles, and honor the groups that continue to make society vital. It is no shame to mix those solemnities with youthful exuberance.

Our contemporary holidays take on some of these meanings. Most of us are capable, if only for a few moments, of honoring the ancestors who made possible our current patterns of existence. Despite our mythology of being a fiercely individualistic country, we are a social people who love to be in the presence of those we care about. We are pleased to be “off work.” We enjoy eating and drinking.

Thanksgiving is one of the times that shows us at our best. It is also, and not coincidentally, one of the least commercialized of the honored days. To be sure, grocery stores are in overdrive; one can buy decorative items. Still, the event is largely a blip between the much more heavily commercialized times of Halloween and Christmas. To be sure, there are parades, like the famous one sponsored by Macy’s; but these are clearly run-ups to Christmas with Santa’s float at the rear. The same is to be said for televised sports. There is a profusion of these, but they are not the biggest of Big Games, which come later in the year.

Let us acknowledge that public acts of “giving thanks” are important, even profound matters. When food supplies are scarce or problematic, as in many societies historically, the blessings of a good harvest are very real. Thanks are offered, in part to the human workers who produced the bounty but mostly to ’s god or gods, who allowed the community to maintain its precarious existence. In that sense, the 1621 fall feast of the Massachusetts pilgrims was not distinctive – other settling groups had done the same – except for its joining of Native Americans with the scruffy immigrants.

How did Thanksgiving become a national holiday? In an attempt to build nationhood and steel military resolve, the Continental Congress formally encouraged individual colonies to have days of thanksgiving during the Revolutionary War. These events – conceived as “national days of prayer, , and thanksgiving” continued after independence. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first uniformly recognized day (Thursday, November 26) to thank God for the blessings granted the young republic.

Several subsequent Presidents (Jefferson being a conspicuous exception) continued that pattern, although different days and times of year were involved. The practice then became inconsistent, with states taking the lead.

As the nation lurched toward Civil War, Sara Josepha Hale, the editor of the popular magazine Godey’s Lady’s Book –and the author of an 1823 novel that featured a thanksgiving dinner - campaigned for Thanksgiving’s reinstitution as a national holiday. In response, President Lincoln designated Thursday, November 26, 1863, as such a day. Again, the focus was on to God. Pragmatically, it was a claim for national unity during a period of fierce division.

Lincoln’s precedent – effectively, naming the fourth Thursday in November – became the model for present times. Franklin Roosevelt did alter that pattern during the years 1939-1941, primarily to extend the Christmas shopping season. However, there was much opposition to “Franksgiving,” and in late 1941 Roosevelt signed a congressional resolution making the fourth Thursday as the official holiday.

Have the meanings of Thanksgiving shifted through the centuries? The earliest ceremonies focused on gratitude to God. They gathered community members for a feast. They emphasized that a time of great trial had come and gone. The calendar dates of the events were unimportant.

After Lincoln’s initial proclamation (which linked Thanksgiving to the stresses of war), the national custom became date-set and thus disconnected from any specific tests or trials. In the fashion of an officially sanctioned custom, local communities across the country were encouraged to do the event in their own ways. Parades, festivities, and football games were associated with the extended weekend of the holiday. The specifically religious focus of the holiday softened. Moreover, and as Roosevelt’s moving of the date made clear, there was increasing recognition that this was now the start of the Christmas shopping season,

It would perhaps be unrealistic to expect that a commercialized society like ours should not commercialize its holidays. Time off means time to shop. A day at home is an occasion to watch television and visit websites, all framed by commercial messaging. Go a large sporting event – or just watch one on TV – and sense the degree to which our enjoyments are “sponsored.” We find comfort in the companionship of successful products, or brand names. Their sole ambition is to please us; their possession proclaims that we have “made it.”

Again, who can blame us for seeking our pleasure-dose, for aspiring to be gratified? We want to center our thoughts on the wonderful meal before us. We treasure the support of the tablemates who make us feel good about ourselves. We hope that our favorite will be on TV – and that they will win. What feels better than a soothing drink and a warm fire?

Whatever the legitimacy of these satisfactions – and who can deny them? – we should remember that Thanksgiving is intended to turn our thoughts in the opposite direction. It is an occasion to thank those who make our lives – at all their moments - possible. Some of that thanks goes rightly to our families, however checkered our with them may be. Remember our good , the ones who stand by us in all circumstances. But beyond those carefully maintained circles others should be noted. Community members, once such an important part of people’s existence, continue to shape the local worlds in which we operate. Co-workers; church, team, and club members; fellow enthusiasts of our hobbies and causes all contribute to our sense of stability and purpose. Be clear that we also find support from people we do not know well – who build, repair, and otherwise service our existence. There are the unseen and unappreciated millions who contribute to our country and ensure its continuity. Beyond that, let those who have some awareness of the sacred foundations of our modest lives express that gratitude as well.

In short, the purpose of holidays (and Thanksgiving is just one of these) is to acknowledge indebtedness to others. Do not confuse gratification — the feeling of the full belly, warm fire, or comforting pat on the back – with that sense of willing obligation. We live as we do because others have made that existence possible. Let other times be devoted to self-encouragement, even self-love. At holidays, we thank those who have widened our realms of possibility.

====== 196 ========

HOW TO STOP FIGHTING WITH YOUR SPOUSE

Years back I saw a high powered, professional couple in San Francisco who went at each other’s throats, verbally speaking, twenty-four seven. Everything turned into an epic battle—whether the issue was eating meals, having , planning vacations, spending and saving money, decorating the house, rearing kids, or dealing with in-laws and ex-spouses. When they fought, they would revisiting one old hurt after another, and never resolving anything.

Both claimed they were powerless to control their tempers. Then, a distinguished British professor came to stay with them as their houseguest for several months, living in a guest room adjacent to their bedroom. “During that time, we never raised our voices,” the wife told me. “We were pretty courteous with each other. Pride, I guess.” They both agreed it was the best several months of their .

I wish I had a distinguished British houseguest to loan out to all my readers and clients. But I don’t. You'll just have to believe me when I tell you that you are capable of adjusting your behavior. It’s all about and following a couple of rules.

Where to start? The first rule is to make rules for how you as a couple will treat each other—rules you are responsible for following even in the heat of the moment. Like the couple I just described we often act as if the intensity of our gives us license to say or do anything, because, after all, we’re way to furious to be able to stop what’s coming out of our mouth! .

Of course we can stop ourselves and behave better--that is if we have a genuine intention to have a better marriage. If you or your partner can’t keep your anger from getting out of control, it’s important to get professional help.

Begin by sitting down with your partner and coming up with a few rules of your own. These might be, for example, “No yelling or name calling,“ “No bringing up past grievances during a fight” and “No bringing up problems at bedtime.” Many couples find it helpful to keep a written copy of the rules in a place where both will see it daily.

The second rule is to take the responsibility to change first, and make a sincere effort to keep fighting and negativity from escalating. Instead of waiting for your partner to do the right thing, take the initiative to add a note of or calm into a downward-spiraling conflict, or to postpone the exchange to a future time.

It doesn’t matter whether you use humor, or touch, or a simple refusal to participate in a non-productive exchange by saying something like, “If you want me to listen, get out of your debate posture!” The efforts you make to change the tone (or volume) of an increasingly nasty exchange can, over time, save and strengthen your marriage.

Of course, we want our partner to be the one to de-escalate and apologize first, especially if we’re convinced that he “started it” and is the one to blame. We lose sight of the fact that true victory lies in stopping the fight, and then making your point at a calmer time.

Don’t continue to participate in downward spiraling fights that go nowhere and threaten the foundation of and respect on which a good marriage is based. Happy couples are not couples that don’t fight. Rather they’re couples that fight fair, and take responsibility for their own words and actions, no matter how furious they may feel inside. If your motor is running for change, heres a book to help you to use your anger wisely and well.

====== 197 ========

DONALD TRUMP, NOT MELANIA, IS THE MOST BULLIED PERSON

Source: TMZ/Tyler Shields/Fair Use

Melania has failed to earn the 's sympathy for her recent declaration that she is the world’s most bullied person. And rightfully so. She is definitely not the most bullied person. That dubious distinction goes to her husband.

Melania may have been correct, though, had she complained of being the most bullied woman.

How do we determine who is the most bullied person? One way is by examining how much they are insulted, ridiculed and attacked in the news and entertainment media. There’s no contest. President Trump holds the number one place hands down.

Why our President is the most bullied person

There is a simple reason President Trump is the most bullied person in the world: the more powerful and famous you are, the more people are going to want to criticize, ridicule, attack, hate, and even destroy you.

The media and the general public don’t care about the flaws of the average John or Jane Doe. It is the rich, famous and powerful who are on the radar of the media, constantly on the lookout for the titillating information we crave to spice up our mundane, dreary existence.

With the possible exception of despotic dictatorships, the most bullied person in any country is its . In the US, it’s always been our President, even the most popular of them. And since the US is still considered the world’s leading power, the US President is the most bullied individual on the planet.

This is not to say that the President is only a target of . The President is also the nation’s most respected and supported person. But that does not negate the fact that he/she is the most bullied. There may be other famous people who temporarily move into the Number One position when they become the focus of worldwide negative media (think Harvey Weinstein). But as soon as the novelty wears away, the President reclaims the lead.

And if the President is a married man, the most bullied woman is likely to be his wife, the First Lady, especially if she assumes a public role, as many have done, including Melania. The media will examine her through a microscopic lens, searching for any imperfection or blunder to publicize in order to enhance their own ratings.

There are exceptions to the First Lady being the most bullied woman. Other women who hold top positions of power may be contenders, such as Hillary Clinton, especially during election season. But generally it is the First Lady that holds the position of the most bullied woman during the years of her reign. And this is especially true for Melania because of her association with Donald, commonly referred to as our Bully-in-Chief.

The Obamas were also the most-bullied

The Obamas were also the most bullied people when they occupied the White House. Barack was a recipient not only of praise; he was constantly despised and attacked by a sizable portion of Americans. And so was Barack’s wife. As reported in the New York Daily News:

During her eight years as First Lady, Michelle Obama withstood an onslaught of personal attacks and racist insults, with her critics seizing on her skin color and physical features – and repeatedly comparing her to a monkey in a bid to diminish her and tear her down.

The bullying of Melania

We feel sorry for children whose clothing is made fun of in school. Well, how about Melania Trump, whose wardrobe is a regular target of media ridicule. Her clothing was ridiculed only a few days ago: “Twitter goes after Melania Trump's unusual ensemble at the 2018 White House turkey pardoning.”

You may recall the worldwide attacks she suffered because of a coat she wore bearing the imprint, “I don’t really care, do you?”

But perhaps the most scathing attack on her wardrobe – or lack of one – was perpetrated a week ago by Bette Middler (I happened to find it funny, though Middler got mostly flack for her joke), who referred to FLOTUS (First Lady Of The US) as FLOTITS in a Tweet, The dry cleaning bill for the upholstery on Air Force One must be insane.#FLOTITS

Imagine – you have achieved the coveted status of First Lady of the United States, a position that should make you the object of veneration. Then someone posts an almost-nude picture of you from your previous as a model, accompanied by a vulgar caption, and it goes viral. This has produced an unprecedented situation: it is the first time in history that we can all see what our First Lady looks (looked?) like naked.

But the most serious barrage of bullying Melania has been subjected to is over the mission she has taken upon herself as First Lady: to combat bullying among children. She calls her campaign, Be Best, urging children to treat each other well. The media has had a field day with this, lampooning her as a hypocrite because she’s married to our Bully-In-Chief. How ironic to be bullied for taking up the anti-bully cause!

President Trump may be rightfully attacked for his public bullying behavior, unbecoming of a person in his exalted position. He has even been accused of causing an escalation of bullying among children: Donald Trump Has Unleashed a New Wave of Bullying in Schools. A highly publicized recent scientific study supports this contention.

Yes, indeed, our President fits the image of a classic bully. So it can certainly seem preposterously hypocritical for his wife to be taking up the anti-bully cause.

Our own hypocrisy

But there is something we tend to forget when we ridicule the Trumps. Bullying did not start with Donald and it won’t end with him. The bullies are not “them.” They are “us.”

Bullying is in our . As much as we attack the President for engaging in bullying, we enjoy being perpetrators and spectators of bullying as well, and we don’t want to stop. We enjoy it too much. The Trump presidency has been the best thing ever to happen to Saturday Night Live. Comedians’ careers have had new life breathed into them thanks to Trump. Trump has provided reporters, bloggers, and even psychologists with a steady stream of material, and the rest of us eagerly partake of their offerings. They give us something exciting to talk about at the water cooler, in the bar, on social media, and at our dinner tables.

No, the Trump presidency is not a cause of our bullying but a mirror of it. We are highly attuned when he bullies others but conveniently oblivious when we do it to him. And we do it to him much more than he does it to us. Jesus popularized the idea that we are adept at "seeing the speck in others’ eyes while failing to see the plank in our own." Does anything Donald has said about anyone rival the malevolence of Kathy Griffin’s appearance with a bloody replica of Trump’s severed head?

In fact, are not the things we routinely say about Trump far worse than what he says about us? Sure they are. It’s because we live in a democracy, and Trump knows that if he offends us too much we will vote him out of office. However, thanks to Freedom of Speech we can insult him all we want and, unless we work for him, there’s little he can do about it. While Kathy Griffin would have literally lost her head had she pulled such a stunt in a dictatorship, she is now enjoying renewed success as a result of Trump's attempt to ruin her career.

We may justify bullying the rich, powerful and famous by rationalizing that they deserve it, or that it is the price one pays for celebrity status. But it is easy to forget that celebrities are also human beings with feelings, just like the rest of us. While on the line at the grocery store, our gaze may be drawn to the humiliating stories and photos of celebrities that grace the covers of magazines. But do the celebrities enjoy the way they are depicted? Do they deserve to be publicly disgraced? Do we compassionately share their pain, or do we revel in the pleasure of schadenfraude?

If we are to learn anything about bullying from the Trump Presidency, it’s that the bullies are not “them.” They are “us.” As long as we enjoy the bullying of Donald, Melania, and others in positions of power, we cannot expect Trump to stop engaging in bullying, either. We may protest that he started, but doing it back makes us no better.

====== 198 ========

11 WAYS TO COPE WITH ANXIETY WHEN YOU’RE BUSY

Source: rawpixel for Unsplash

Finding ways to cope with is as much a matter of perspective as strategy. Anxiety in and of itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, and in fact can be a help, especially when we are busy. A powerful source of information and energy, anxiety can walk a fine line between motivating and overwhelming depending on how we choose to view it.

For those who live with anxiety on a more-than-occasional basis, choices tend to vacillate between giving into it or learning to live with it. “Perspective” can seem like a leisure activity in our fast-paced, information-packed world, rather than a line-item on a competent person’s calendar.

And yet, without perspective, there really is no competence. Information overload and the constant state of alert cause anxiety to fall off the fence and into the proverbial briar patch of overwhelm.

Learning ways to cope with anxiety when its optimization is still possible is far different than operating a rescue mission after it has all but crippled you. And when you’re busy (And who doesn’t feel “too busy”?), it is especially important to have some practiced methods of anxiety on-hand.

can be a tricky player. Sometimes it shows up as a factor beyond your control, forcing the hand of change and adaptation. Without it, there would be no growth, no strengthening, no evolution. And that is as true for the planet and its species as it is for the individual.

At the other end of the spectrum, stress can be a reflection of your mental and emotional responses to stimuli. Cognitively you may suspect or even know that the events triggering your anxiety in a given situation are actually “neutral,” and it is only your responses to them that are not. Frustrating as those times are (and we all have them), those are actually the “stressful moments” most imbued with opportunity.

Regardless of the origin of your anxiety, a stress response with a permanent green light isn't helpful. Chronic non-stop stress can overwhelm the nervous system and take its toll, both physically and emotionally.

You can, however, make choices and take actions to mitigate that stress response. There are ways to cope with anxiety so that you come out on the winning end and reap the benefits of anxiety as a resource.

Here are 11 strategies to try, especially when you’re busy:

1. Relaxation techniques for creeping-past-moderate anxiety.



By knowing how you instinctively respond to stress, you can best choose a course of action that either utilizes the stress or helps to quiet it. Do you get worked up? Retreat? Feel energized? Paralyzed? By knowing your unique tendencies, you can be in charge of your anxiety, not the other way around.



Moderate anxiety is where optimization lies. It’s where you will experience the “nudge” to get things done, push a little harder, risk going outside your comfort zone. It’s the “chatter” range of anxiety that keeps you accountable to the things that are important to you.



When anxiety starts “yelling” at you, however, the internal experience is literally like being yelled at. Your mind goes into overwhelm, or even shuts down as a defense mechanism.



Think of the difference between a that hits your system as “full dose” vs. “extended release.” Keeping anxiety at a “chatter” level will keep you comfortably on your toes and in sync with the it fuels.



On those occasions when the volume of your anxiety starts ramping up, it helps to have some techniques to bring your body and mind back into equilibrium. You may just need to dial back on the volume, or you may need to “reset” and start fresh after a break. The key is to recognize when your anxiety is starting to take control of you, and intervene with a relaxation technique that works for you.



Examples of relaxation techniques include:

• deep breathing

•

• body-scan meditation

•

• yoga and Tai Chi



2. Uni-task vs. multi-task.



We are all conditioned to believe that we must consistently do a gazillion things at once in order to keep up with the Joneses, let alone to succeed. But constant multitasking actually causes the to work less efficiently.



Learning to “uni-task” is at the heart of mindfulness meditation and is a powerful tool in helping to establish priorities while letting non-essentials fall away. Put down your phone and be with your child. Get out of the office and have a “walking meeting” with your co-worker. Get comfortable giving your to one thing at a time.



3. Spread the .



Direct your anxiety into helping someone else. It’s amazing how the proclivity for worrying dissipates when you are selflessly serving someone else’s needs. And it’s no secret that you will benefit, as well.



4. Exercise.



Even gentle exercise like walking or yoga can have a profound effect. The endorphins released with gentle exercise will keep you energized and focused without the uncomfortable anxiety effects.



5. Talk it out.



Having someone to talk with when anxiety starts to get ahead of you can help slow its progress and steer you back toward its productive benefits. A friend, counselor, or support group can help you keep perspective. And infusing a little into the conversation is great medicine.



6. Turn off to tune out.



Turn off the TV and say “night-night” to your phone at least an hour before bedtime. The last thing an anxious mind needs when trying to wind down is a barrage of hostile headlines and social notifications.



The -assaulting effects of your screen’s blue light frequency can also wreak havoc with your ability to drift off. Because it mimics the blue light of dawn, it can sabotage your sleep ritual by “waking you up.”



There are plenty of low-tech ways to relax before bed. Try a book with actual pages and/or a diffuser with calming essential oils. Or download a filter to your computer to change the light frequency.



7. Eat well.



How you eat affects how you feel, both physically and emotionally.



The common-sense guidelines for keeping your body healthy also pertain to keeping your brain healthy. Watch the caffeine, avoid fried and high-sugar foods, and eat oil-rich fish and plenty of vegetables. Keeping your blood-sugar levels on an even keel is one of the simplest ways to cope with anxiety while fostering a healthy all-around life.



8. Take action in spite of .



Instead of allowing yourself time to brood over all the possible outcomes of your choices, take action. Get into the game. Take baby steps if that is all you can do. But stand up to the fear and make adjustments once you are in motion. You’ll find that most of that catastrophizing was for naught.

9. Tell yourself you can handle this, because you are handling it.



When doubt creeps in, pull out a mantra that works for you -- something like, “I can handle this, and everything is going to be OK.”



While the anxietythat you are feeling is likely a signal for needed growth, there is no 911 for you to accomplish it all right now. You are handling the demands of this moment, and you willhandle the demands that come after. One breath, one moment, one task at a time.



By recognizing that you are managing -- even if not so gracefully -- you can also shed a common secondary anxiety that comes along with stress: “I can’t handle this.” You may not wantto handle it, but you can.



10. Be strategic in placing your expectations.



In the spirit of making stress as low as possible, strive to limit high expectations. Taking a moment to ask yourself, “Do I have control over this? And if so, how much?” can do wonders to position you advantageously and prevent the deflation that comes from having high hopes dashed.



Your hopes and are precious commodities. Be protective of them, and careful not to put them at unnecessary risk. Look to focus on realistic , informed by what is actually happening. Notice where you feel traction, and look to build expectations from there.



However, even when you’re keeping your expectations in check, disappointments will still happen. And, no matter how small they are, they can still hurt – because you care.



Your caring is a vital part of you. It’s OK to be sad for a short while when you feel disappointed before moving forward again. The important thing is that you are willing to keep moving so that you don’t get stuck in any feelings of disappointment along the way to pursuing your hopes and dreams.



11. Identify how you are overextending and pull back.



When stress rears its head, most of us stretch to meet its demands. This is how we grow and get stronger. But when we stretch too much and avoid setting limits, especially at work, we risk a diminishing return on investment. Perfectionism can lure us out of balance, as well.



For many of us, saying “no” can be tough. How can you limit someof your overextending? Where can you claim more time, more space for you? How, and to whom, can you say “no” or “not now” with consequences you can live with?



It is too tempting to say “no” and “not now” to our own needs in order to cope; but in the long run, this is a recipe for . While flexibility might be admirable, it can be an impediment to holding onto balance. Flexibility still needs to suit your own needs to be sustainable.

Anxiety has the ability to increase energy, streamline mental focus and boost productivity. Optimizing it relies on you being able to recognize its symptoms and keep a positive perspective, then using those symptoms to your advantage as much as possible. By having reliable ways to cope with anxiety, you can embrace it as a colleague that is accompanying you on your journey for your highest good.

====== 199 ========

EVIDENCE THAT DREAMS HELP US LEARN

One of the most interesting lines of research in dream psychology these days are the so-called “dream incorporation” studies. Incorporation of novel learned material into dream content significantly predicts success at permanent retention or learning that novel content (Fiss et al., 1977; De Konnick et al., 1990; Stickgold et al., 2000; Fosse, Fosse, Hobson, & Stickgold, 2003; Wamsley, Perry, et al., 2010; Wamsley, Tucker, et al., 2010; Wamsley et al., 2012; Schoch et al., 2018; Wamsley and Stickgold, 2018). If you dream about something you studied that day you are more likely to retain that information the next day. Improved performance on learning novel materials is significantly associated with the extent of dream incorporation—the greater the number of elements of the learned materials incorporated into , the stronger the acquisition of those novel materials in subsequent daytime performance tests. For example, De Koninck et al., 1990 found that second language acquisition scores were predicted by a higher frequency of dreams that incorporated elements (words, phrases etc) of the second language into dream content. Wamsley et al. (2012) demonstrated that learning to master a virtual maze navigation task was significantly associated with dream incorporation of elements of the maze. Greater incorporation predicted greater mastery. Learning-related dream incorporation into REM dreams is strongest on the night after and from 5–7 nights after learning, reflecting “day residue” and “dream-lag” effects, respectively (Nielsen et al., 2004; van Rijn et al., 2015).

The neurobiologic basis of these dream incorporation effects likely involves sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation processes. A large number of studies have now demonstrated differential performance improvements (e.g., from training to retest) on a large variety of tasks over an intervening period of sleep vs control periods of wakefulness. Human neuroimaging studies incorporating sleep dependent memory paradigms suggest that after new learning, there is physiological reactivation of brain areas recruited during learning (Peigneux et al., 2003, 2006; Oudiette and Paller, 2013; Oudiette et al., 2013; Fogel et al., 2017). Single cell recordings in animal studies have shown that during sleep there is a physiological replaying of the representation formed during waking learning (e.g. exploration of a maze). There is some evidence that this replay of neural representations of learned materials occurs in humans as well and is reflected in the content of our dreams (Stickgold et al., 2000; Wamsley et al., 2010; Kusse et al., 2012; Wamsley, 2014; 2018). “Targeted memory reactivation” refers to the use of cueing techniques to facilitate reactivation and replay of neural representations or during sleep to promote later waking recall of those memories (e.g., Cellini and Capuozzon, 2018, for review). For example, playing selected words or sounds during sleep that were previously paired with to-be-learned words during a learning phase before sleep results in better recall of the word-pairs post-sleep. Presentation of cues during sleep that had been previously associated with a stimulus during wake results in better recall of that stimulus during subsequent waking recall tests. These techniques have been used to improve memory performance in healthy people and in patient populations. By re-exposing subjects to odors, words, or tones (i.e., cues) associated with newly learnt neutral or emotional memories, emotional memories were reactivated and more readily recalled later. It should be possible to use targeted reactivation techniques to reinforce dream images of previously studied material. Then we would be harnessing the power of dreams in a whole new way.

====== 200 ========

WAS THE UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? LAST OF 4 PARTS

I've been exploring the so-called anthropic principle, the notion that perhaps the universe was somehow made with us in mind (suggested, according to its supporters, by the claim that if any of a large number of physical constants were just a smidgeon different, we wouldn't exist). If you'd like to catch up on this scientific-philosophical-theological and altogether skeptical journey, you can find versions one, two and three, in chronological order.

It seems likely that life exists elsewhere in the universe, if only because it has become clear that there is a huge number of potentially life-friendly planets along with other potential happy havens out there. And of course, if there is - and if the universe really was, somehow and by Someone, "made" - it's always possible that it was made for them: three-headed slimy slobbus beasts, or perhaps hardened chunks of metabolizing meteorite masses ... or whatever.

For extraterrestrial life to exist, it nonetheless seems likely (although by no means certain) that it would have to reside on one or more exoplanets, asteroids or perhaps a comet, rather than within a star or free-floating in open space. Moreover, such exoplanets would have to be associated with stars that, for example, don’t emit massive amounts of X-rays or other forms of radiation. But of course, this presumes that “life” would be consistent with “life as we know it.” Maybe there are critters out there who cheerfully bathe in hefty levels of what to terrestrial biologists are lethal amounts of energy, or get by and even thrive on not enough energy to sustain a perseverating entity that would qualify – to us - as “alive.” Most likely, I suspect, there aren’t.

Just a bit closer to established reality, quantum mechanics offers another potential solution to the anthropic conundrum, one that seems if anything weirder than the multiverse hypothesis. According to theory - the same theory that gives rise to, among other things, the very real computer on which this book has been written - matter at its most fundamental level is made up of probabilistic wave functions, which only transition to “reality” when a conscious observer intervenes to measure or perceive them. In the famous “double slit experiment,” light is revealed to be either a particle or a wave only after it is measured as one or the other. Prior to this, photons do not, in a sense, exist as clear-cut entities; afterward, they do.

Based on these and other findings, physicist John Wheeler, one of the towering pioneers of quantum mechanics, who coined the term “black hole,” (and who numbered Nobel laureate Richard Feynman among his students) suggested a “participatory anthropic principle,” whereby – believe it or not – the universe had to include conscious beings in order for it to exist. Personally, I don’t believe it.

I do, however, believe in evolution, which leads – by a stretch no more bizarre than Wheeler’s – to the suggestion that maybe it shouldn’t be surprising that we live in a universe suitable for life, something that has happened not because the universe has been fine-tuned for us or has somehow been “made real” by us, but because we are fine-attuned to it because of natural selection. Just as the physical qualities of air have selected for the structure of bird wings, and the anatomy of fish speaks eloquently about the of water, maybe the nature of the physical universe has in the most general sense, selected for life, and thus, for us.

There is also another, more peculiar way of incorporating natural selection into the anthropic quest. What if natural selection occurs at the level of galaxies, or even universes, such that those offering the potential for life are more likely to replicate themselves? If so, then compared to life-denying galaxies, life-friendly ones might conceivably have produced more copies of themselves, providing greater opportunities for life forms such as ourselves. Aside from the rampant unlikelihood of this “explanation,” it remains unclear how or why such pro-life galaxies would be favored over their more barren alternatives.

Nonetheless, physicist Lee Smolin has pursued the notion of “cosmological natural selection,” whereby perhaps not just galaxies but entire universes replicate themselves, courtesy of black holes.[i] If so, then what sort of universes would be favored – “selected for,” as biologists would put it? Easy: those that employ physical laws and constants that are “more fit,” i.e., that lend themselves to being reproduced. This conveniently explains (if explanation is the correct word) why our universe contains black holes (it’s how they replicate). It also leads to the supposition that perhaps intelligent beings can contribute to the selective advantage of their particular universe, via the production of black holes, and who-knows-what-else.

Another possibility, no less weird, was broached by Carl Sagan in his 1985 novel, Contact. In it, the heroine is advised by an extraterrestrial to study transcendental numbers - numbers that are not algebraic – of which the best known example is pi. She computes one such number out to 1020 places, at which point she detects a message embedded in this number.

Since such numerology is fundamental to mathematics itself and is thus, in a sense, a property of the basic fabric of the universe, the implication is that the cosmos itself is somehow a product of intelligence, since the message is clearly an artificial one and not the result of random noise. Or maybe the universe itself is “alive,” and the various physical and mathematical constants are part of its metabolism. Such speculation is great fun, but please bear in mind that it is science fiction, not science!

It should be clear at this point that the anthropic argument readily devolves into speculative and even theology. Indeed, it is reminiscent of the “god of the gaps” perspective, in which god is posited whenever science hasn’t (yet) provided an answer. Calling upon god specifically when there is a gap in our scientific may be tempting, but it is not even popular among theologians, because as science grows, the gaps – and thus, god – shrinks. It remains to be seen whether the anthropic principle, in whatever form, succeeds in expanding our sense of ourselves beyond that illuminated by science. I wouldn’t bet on it.

And yet, despite what we has been called Copernican Mediocrity – to which I would add Darwinian Mediocrity - just because the universe is unlikely to be what it is simply for our benefit, this need not, and should not, give rise to an alternative, “misanthropic principle.” Regardless of how special we are, or aren’t, wouldn’t we be well-advised to treat everyone (including the other life forms with which we share this planet), as the precious beings we like to imagine us all to be?

[i] L. Smolin. 1999. The Life of the Cosmos. New York: Oxford University Press

====== 201 ========

MANAGING THE EXPERIENCE OF SETBACKS AT WORK

Work deadlines are a fact of life for many individuals, and failure to meet deadlines can result in serious consequences. Unfortunately, set-backs are also common at work. Specifically, sometimes the progress workers are able to make toward their goals is inhibited by factors outside their control. For instance, a computer crash has the potential to undo a day’s worth of work. When deadlines must be met, such set-backs can be quite upsetting, and potentially demotivating.

However, to date relatively little research has considered the effects of set-backs on worker emotions and . More so, virtually no efforts have been made to differentiate types of set-backs. To this end, my co-authors Abigail Scholer, Jeffrey Hughes, and I designed two experiments to address this issue. Specifically, we identified two types of set-backs:

Distance Set-backs are characterized by a loss of progress. As an example, consider an employee working on a report due at the end of the day. A computer crash that causes some or all of the report to be deleted is a distance set-back.

Velocity Set-backs are characterized by a decrease in the rate of progress that can be made in the future. No progress is lost, yet all future progress is made more slowly compared to before the set-back occurred. For instance, a virus that causes a computer to slow down (thereby slowing future progress) is a velocity set-back.

We predicted that both types of set-backs would cause individuals to feel increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm while performing work tasks. However, we also predicted that whereas the effects of a distance set-back would eventually fade over time, the effects of a velocity set-back would persist.

Participants were randomly assigned to experience either a distance set-back or a velocity set-back while they completed a simulated work task. Halfway through the experiment participants were told their was a “computer glitch.” Participants in the distance condition were told this glitch caused some of the work they had already completed to be lost, and thus, this work would need to be redone. Conversely, participants in the velocity condition were told the glitch caused delays in the computer program, resulting in slower progress from that point onward. Importantly, the distance and velocity set-backs were designed to be functionally equivalent in terms of the likelihood of ultimately completing the task within the deadline. In other words, all participants had an equal chance to meet the deadline, regardless of condition. Participants who completed the task within the deadline were given a small cash reward.

As expected, participants had relatively negative initial reactions to both types of set-backs. Specifically, participants in both conditions reported increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm. Yet these reactions were relatively short-lived for participants who experienced a distance set-back; frustration and enthusiasm returned to baseline levels by the end of the experiment. On the other had, the increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm persisted over time among participants who experienced the velocity set-back. Although the set-backs were equivalent in terms of their effect on ultimately completing the task within the deadline, negative reactions to velocity set-backs were far more persistent compared to the reactions to the distance set-back. Downstream, frustration and enthusiasm predicted important motivational outcomes, including goal commitment, effort, and task performance.

These results highlight the importance of the effects that set-back can have on worker emotions and motivation. Managers should be cognizant of the fact that workers are likely to be upset following set-backs, and this may detract from motivation and performance moving forward. This may be particularly true following velocity set-backs. However, managers may be able to ameliorate the these deleterious effects by helping employees update their expectations regarding a reasonable rate of progress. In other words, following a velocity set-back managers may be to communicate to their subordinates that they understand the source of the slowed progress. Doing so may help employees reappraise the situation, form new internal guidelines for reasonable rates of progress, and remain committed to completing the task on time.

The full manuscript can be downloaded here.

====== 202 ========

BETWEEN HERE AND MY LAST STOP: MEMOIRS AND ASSISTED MAGIC

Source: Wikimedia

It was a fall about the time of the Women’s March 2016 that sidelined me and my pink pussy hat. I knew then that I had just participated in my last protest demonstration. Although a one-time believer is the "stay-at-home" movement -- research on , , and highlights from the Gerontological Society of America meetings, which I have been following for some years now, compelled me to reconsider. The 18th Annual Meeting was held in Boston this month. With research from diverse areas, they report on new scientific research and ways to promote healthy aging. Gerontological Society of America.

It came at a time, when I was feeling challenged and welcomed their ideas and energy. Despite my calling "aging in place the fountain of youth" in an earlier article, after my pussy hat fall my choices were limited: Moving in with children or into assisted living — for which I considered myself to be too young. Nonetheless, after reading once again Being Mortal by Atul Gawande, M.D., I began counting my blessings, and made a choice.

Gawande, a New Yorker staff writer, and long-time physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, points out that we can enjoy creative moments filled with meaning and vitality even in our later years.

As many reviewers have pointed out, Gawande's mission appears to be allowing people to live a meaningful life and shape the story of their own lives. While assisted living is sometimes considered a home, indeed, for people in their 60s, 70s, and older, it can be a place to begin a new adventure. If psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung born in 1875, folded up into full retirement, he may not have written one of his classic works, , , Reflections in 1962.

A book may not be in our future, but assisted living can become a starting point for a new life experience. Former colleagues almost jealously compare my living choice to The MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire. There writers and artists are nurtured while oftentimes completing a work in progress.

A Family Memoir

Falling as I did sidelined me, but also set in motion a plan to collect all published columns about my grandparents and put them into a book for my grandchildren. And indeed, with a black paper photo scrapbook, made by one of my sisters, and time to write uninterrupted, Italian Kisses: My Grandmother's , is now with Bordighera Press in New York City.

For people interested in memoirs, there is new and interesting research from the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf. As reported in Behaviour Research and and and Behavioral Practice, even unhappy memories can be transformed by editing and rescripting them: How to Treasure Happy Memories and Edit the Sad Ones (with references.)

An Assignment

Before our last stop, many of us have a myriad of , wishes and dreams, or a bucket list. Most people do not like to think about the last stop. However, a graduate school assignment helped us to come face-to-face with our mortality. We were tasked with writing our own obituary. It was a way to look at our goals and determine how we wished to be remembered. Write one today and then ask yourself: "Is this what I'd like my life story to say?" And if it is not, then ask, "What is missing? What did I hope to accomplish?"

One graduate school colleague said she wanted to be a physician. Someone chided her saying, "You'll be 50 by the time you become a resident." She thought for a minute and answered, "I'll be 50 anyway." And she enrolled in medical school.

Copyright 2018 Rita Watson

====== 203 ========

THE PROFOUND PLEASURE OF PUTTERING

Source: Pippalou/Morguefile

After an exceedingly long, exceedingly busy couple of years—during which any time I wasn’t actively doing something, I was worrying about things I should be doing—I woke up one morning with all the important tasks behind me and nothing pressing ahead of me. Nothing to do, nowhere to go, and no reason to worry about it.

My god, what a glorious feeling.

I got out of bed, put on comfortable clothes, may or may not have brushed my hair, and threw myself body and soul into puttering.

I wonder: Do know the deep, joyous satisfaction of puttering around the house? Or is a day without other people, for them, a day wasted?

Puttering around the house entails wandering from room to room, doing those little things you’ve meant to do eventually (changing light bulbs, throwing away old eye shadows, paging through catalogs that have stacked up on the counter…). You let your wander with your body, shedding superfluous worries with the abandon of a cat dropping hair on black pants.

Puttering has no goal unless you count the million little that crop up, to either be accomplished or not. I take profound pleasure in tossing those catalogs in the recycle bin, blowing drifts of leaves off the driveway, organizing my sock drawer. In puttering, I simply follow along wherever my meandering mind takes me--and if I don’t finish something, so what? I’ll finish something else. Have you ever noticed how soothing sweeping the floor can be?

On this day, after some indoor puttering, I strolled to the backyard, where I became suddenly aware of the paving stones that have waited patiently for more than a year to be placed. So I got a shovel and got to work. And in setting my brain free while I did the heavy lifting, I managed to re-envision the patio into something that’s becoming quite pleasing.

And yes, I even moved the bag of mulch that had been laying where I dropped it when I took it out of my car trunk so many months ago--although I did enjoy the running joke it had become. Stays where you put it! the bag boasted. Indeed it did.

I went into the house, then out. In, out. In, out. I did this, and did that, and then I did the other thing. Talked to myself, sang along with the radio, listened to a couple of the podcasts I earnestly downloaded long ago, for when I had time. For a while I just sat silently and stared into space as the frantic chatter in my brain slowed to a gentle mutter and then trailed off.

To an extent, puttering is a gesture of respect from our brains to our physical selves. It’s not about thinking, or reading, or producing. Instead, we take on “mindless tasks” that need only the most minimal participation of the brain We acknowledge our surroundings, consider what makes us comfortable, and tend to those things, however aimlessly.

This is not the same as housekeeping, which is more the drudgery of keeping a house functional. That’s serious, stodgy work. This is the frill on the turkey, taking care of the visual clutter that tends to exacerbate the racket of a busy brain. If we let our brains lead, they drift towards the little disturbances—piles of mail, unfinished projects—so we may handle them. We wash the bedroom curtains. Hang a picture. Make things nice.

When my life gets full, puttering around the house invariably falls off my schedule. On one hand, it seems indulgent. But it’s also not something one ordinarily schedules. Puttering typically occurs spontaneously, in between all the other things one does. It is both an activity, and the absence of activity.

But I realized the other day, as I drifted around the house, that this day of hardcore puttering felt deeply therapeutic. Set it free from all constraints, my brain meandered at its own pace and in its own way, unclenching and creating space through which fresh ideas wafted. It was relaxing, and refreshing, and rejuvenating. Plus I got rid of those catalogs.

====== 204 ========

TIME AND SPACE MAY BE PERCEIVED BY A COMMON BRAIN SYSTEM

Time and space are fundamental dimensions of the universe. Those dimensions are conventionally scaled by distinctly different methods of measurement. We use hourglasses and watches to record the passage of time; we use rulers and gauge blocks to index length. Yet, Albert Einstein’s revolutionary theory of relativity upset this simplistic apple cart by suggesting that time and space are actually inseparable.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

Einstein’s startling suggestion certainly challenges common sense. Nevertheless, research in science and has recently revealed that we use a shared neurobiological mechanism to make psychological judgments of time and space.

In one key piece of behavioral evidence, researchers found that the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length people reported it to be. In a parallel fashion, the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration people reported it to be. This surprising interdependence violates the belief that—at least psychologically—space and time are independent dimensions.

Furthering the unexpected of this finding is the fact that rhesus monkeys responded in the same way as did people when given comparable testing procedures. Clearly, the psychological interdependence of space and time is not uniquely human. Nevertheless, as primates, both monkeys and humans share key neural structures like the cerebral cortex.

Source: Monkeyland, South Africa

In our own research at The University of Iowa, we sought to advance our of the common processing of time and space by attempting to replicate the psychological interdependence of space and time in the pigeon—an animal which, like all birds, does not have a cerebral cortex. Remarkably, pigeons behaved just as did humans and monkeys: the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length pigeons reported it to be and the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration pigeons reported it to be.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

When adaptive behaviors are shared by extremely distant phylogenetic relatives, it is generally assumed that their evolution independently arose in response to common survival demands. Exactly what may have encouraged the common processing of time and space by birds and mammals has yet to be determined. Still, it is clear that the very differently organized brains of birds and mammals exhibit a common functionality: a finding that is turning out to be more common than is conventionally expected.

Indeed, the cognitive prowess of birds is now deemed to be ever closer to that of both human and nonhuman primates. Those avian nervous systems are capable of far greater achievements than the pejorative “bird brain” would ever have suggested.

====== 205 ========

ARE YOU SELFISH OR DO YOU JUST HAVE HEALTHY SELF-INTEREST?

Doris believed that decent, kind and considerate people never put their own needs before those of others, especially when dealing with loved ones. She thought only selfish people who failed to care about the feeling and wishes of others would ever put their own desires first. Unsurprisingly, Doris often felt people took unfair advantage of her and did not reciprocate her selflessness. In fact, most of her family and seemed to believe Doris was a bit of a martyr and derived satisfaction from her self-sacrificial M.O. In reality, however, she often felt resentful but because of and could never bring herself to express her true feelings.



After a brief course of CBT, emphasizing rational reframing and training, Doris reported feeling much better about herself and many of her . What I call the “O2 metaphor” (O2 as in oxygen) seemed to particularly resonate with Doris:



Imagine you’re flying a commercial jet seated between a very young child and a frail, very old adult. All of a sudden the cabin loses pressure. The oxygen masks deploy and drop down in front of everybody. Now, who is the first person you put the oxygen mask on? The helpless child? The struggling senior? No, and no! As every flight attendant will announce during the safety briefing, we are instructed to put on our own mask first before attempting to help anyone else. Because if we don’t, we’ll pass out almost immediately. And then, not only will we have failed help the child and/or the senior, but we now need help ourselves. Yet if we had first taken just a few seconds to secure our own air supply, we then would have been able to attend to the people around us who might need help. Also, by taking care of ourselves first, we can often avoid the predicament of needing assistance ourselves. Thus, often, only by helping ourselves first can we be a position to offer or provide help to others. This is the main difference between healthy self-interest and selfishness.



In essence, selfishness involves satisfying your own needs at the expense of others. Healthy self-interest is simply taking care of yourself but not at the expense of others. Related to this is the unfortunate notion that it is better to give than to receive. Why? This mistaken idea has led many people like Doris to be ungracious about accepting things from others. The irony is that it can be selfish to refuse to let someone to do a kind deed for us because it deprives them of satisfaction. Hence, neither giving or receiving is “better.” It is best to give and to receive.



At the heart of Doris’s lack of assertiveness was an element of rejection and abandonment . Indeed, many people believe that if they say “no,” or put themselves first, it will lead people to dislike them and might even rupture their relationships. But when we realize if someone reacts so dramatically to a simple act of healthy expression, the problem is with them and not with the assertive person. In these cases, it’s often necessary to recalibrate the relationship and keep in mind that the other person has some significant personal and interpersonal challenges.



So, when you’re about to say “yes” when you’d really rather say “no,” think of the O2 metaphor. Also, try not to be held hostage by exaggerated fears of your relationships’ fragility. Any healthy and truly meaningful intimacy ought to easily withstand a an occasional “no” and balanced instances of enlightened self-interest. Finally, allow yourself to receive gifts and accept kind acts from others so that they don’t feel rejected and fail to derive the pleasure of giving.



Remember: Think well, Act Well, Feel well, Be well!

Dear Reader: The advertisements contained in this post do not necessarily reflect my opinions nor are they endorsed by me. — Clifford

Copyright 2018 by Clifford N. Lazarus, Ph.D. This post is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional assistance or personal mental treatment by a qualified clinician.

====== 206 ========

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN LEADERS OVERESTIMATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS?

The very best leaders are self-aware. They know their strengths and limitations. They strive to overcome those limitations and become better leaders. At the same time, it takes self- to be a leader.

What happens when self-awareness takes a backseat to too much leader self-confidence?

Research by Leanne Atwater and colleagues has shown that leaders who overestimate their effectiveness tend to be and have too much belief in their own competence and are unrealistically – believing that they will be more successful than circumstances will allow. In addition, overestimators tend to ignore criticism and thus are unlikely to see their own flaws and they don’t work to overcome their weaknesses.

What about those who underestimate their leadership effectiveness?

Underestimators tend to overemphasize their weaknesses and undervalue their true leadership strengths. This leads to a lack of self-confidence (although some underestimators may work hard to try to compensate for their perceived weaknesses).

How about leaders who are accurate in estimating their leader effectiveness?

These leaders understand their leadership strengths and shortcomings and are better able to employ their skills, and work to develop those that are lacking.

How do researchers measure estimation of leadership effectiveness?

It is done by having both leaders rate themselves and the followers/direct reports of the leader completing the same ratings of leadership effectiveness. The amount of agreement/disagreement leads to determination of leader under and over estimators, and those leaders who have a good of how they are seen by their followers.

The research also shows that leaders who are in agreement with the ratings of their followers have higher potential for promotion and lower risk of experiencing leader derailment. In other words, knowing oneself, and how one is viewed by followers, helps boost a leader’s effectiveness, success, and continued leader development.

Follow me on : http://twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 207 ========

THE SIMPLE GESTURE THAT ENHANCES HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

Source: CC0 Creative Commons

In my twelve-step fellowship, we greet each other with a hug. Whenever I see my daughters, we hug. I’m not talking about a fleeting, drive-by, bro-style pat-on-the-back hug, but rather one that is substantial, sustained, and heartfelt. Hugging another person with intention and feeling is a powerful form of recognition, an unequivocal acknowledgement that he or she matters. It is often an indicator of emotional intimacy that says, “I got you,” even—or perhaps especially—in the face of adversity.

Physiologically, hugging precipitates the release of , often referred to as the “bonding hormone” because it promotes and strengthens existing bonds and , which includes the bond between mothers and their newborn babies. In this way, hugging and other forms of caring touch likely emerged as an evolutionary imperative—facilitating connection to enhance survival. Oxytocin is a chemical of interpersonal connection, not only released through physical closeness with another person but also through other forms of bonding, such as eye contact, smiling, and attentiveness.

In addition to such psychological sustenance, hugging also provides significant benefits, starting with its reducing, calming effects. Recent research demonstrates that oxytocin is associated with decreases in the stress cortisol and norepinephrine, as well as increased levels of the feel-good neurotransmitters and serotonin (the body’s natural ). Moreover, there’s evidence that hugs and the oxytocin release that accompanies them reduce heart rate and blood pressure, increase feelings of well-being, and improve immune system function and pain tolerance.[1]

Physical embrace in the form of hugging is an action with tremendous bang for the buck. Engaging in hugs and other forms of caring touch, such as placing an arm around someone shows kindness; putting a hand on another’s shoulder communicates support. Caring touch has multiple physiological and emotional benefits for both people. It reduces blood pressure, lowers cortisol, and stimulates the release of oxytocin. Touching also releases serotonin, which soothes and regulates mood.

Caring touch is a primary language of . It provides emotional nourishment—awakening and increasing feelings of calmness, trust, and secure attachment between parents and their children. Make time to connect with your children, regardless of how busy you are. Tell them that you love them—often. Too many parents don’t do this or only do it rarely, many assuming “they already know I love them.”

One of the ironies of human nature is that all too frequently, people make an effort to be more overtly kind and considerate to other people (sometimes complete strangers) than to their own families. They may be much harder on those with whom they are closest—partners and children in particular—taking the connection and relationship for granted. This was the case with my own father, and there have been times I succumbed to this phenomenon as well.

For five years during the mid-1990s, I was the clinical director for a hospital-based treatment program that provided medically managed detoxification and rehabilitation for adults. In addition to supervising the program’s social workers and counselors, my role included functioning as a sort of vice-principal, dealing directly with violations of program rules and determining consequences. We worked with an extremely challenged and challenging population, and when patients acted out—which occurred in all manner of ways—they had to meet with me. In response to my usual intentional professional demeanor, with surprising frequency, they would ask me, “Do you ever get angry?” In response, I’d smile and assure them that since is a natural human emotion, everyone gets angry sometimes.

On my return home, I’d tell my kids that the patients at work once again asked if I ever got angry, to which my elder daughter’s reaction was a combination snort-snigger followed by an always incredulous variation on the theme of “If they only knew.” While I took considerable pride in my professional , its incongruity with the liberties of laxity I sometimes took as a parent and partner only inspired self-reproach.

We need to be consciously aware of the tendency to take the people we love and their presence in our lives for granted and treat them less well. With this awareness, we are more likely to treat them with the kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love they deserve.

is a link in the chain that connects the past with the future. How did the way your parents talked to you influence your , your self-talk? Keep in mind that how you treat and talk to your children becomes part of how they treat and talk to themselves.

Every day, you participate in myriad encounters, each of which has an impact on other people, your , and you. The impacts of your actions ripple far beyond what you know or can observe, so with conscious effort, you can build more kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love into your actions throughout the day.

The size of the actions matters not; they all have meaning and value. Everything you do that is positive makes a positive difference somehow, somewhere, and in some way, especially with your children. As expressed so elegantly by psychologist and philosopher William James, “Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference. It does.”

Copyright 2018 Dan Mager, MSW

Author of Roots and Wings: Mindful Parenting in Recovery and Some Assembly Required: A Balanced Approach to Recovery from Addiction and

====== 208 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

The Hungry Consumer

Overzealous consumerism and holiday gift-giving is a double whammy. Today might be dedicated to excessive and aggressive shopping, but it comes one day after we’re supposed to appreciate all that we have. What does that say about us?

====== 209 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

In agricultural societies of the past, farmers were mostly self sufficient. They worked hard but consumed little. Today we consume so much that the oceans are filled with trash. What changed?

Rising Disposable Income

A great deal has happened. To begin with, rising global affluence following the Industrial Revolution put a lot more money in people's wage packets (1). The proportion of pay being spent on non essentials like food and shelter declined, leaving a surplus of “disposable income”.

This had several important consequences. Social mobility took off. Workers began using their disposable income to communicate social success and status.

This could be one reason that the bulk of disposable income is devoted to leisure activities. Of course, such activities are also pleasurable in themselves, from enjoying sunshine in a vacation spot to fine dining, or driving luxury vehicles.

In feudal societies there had been minimal social mobility and a luxurious lifestyle was the exclusive preserve of the landed elite.

This scenario changed profoundly with the rise of the middle classes following the Industrial Revolution. Some scholars argue that the lives of ordinary people in developed countries today are more luxurious in material terms than those of the most sybaritic monarchs of the past (such as Louis 16th of France) given the variety of consumer goods available (2).

The Rise of

Social mobility preceded the steam-engine-based Industrial Revolution. Cloth manufacturers “put out” their orders, or subcontracted them, to cottage weavers. Using tallow candles that shed a bright and steady light, cotters worked night and day to fill their orders and saw a modest increase in their standard of living (3).

Due to rising wages, a person could save to buy a better home, or better furniture, or more elegant clothing. With social mobility, every person was responsible for their own station in life. Keeping up with the Joneses was born.

The period preceding the factory production of cloth is aptly named the “Industrious Revolution (3).” It was accompanied by slow but steady economic growth culminating in the modern era of cheap global shipping and runaway consumption.

When living standards rise, beneficiaries are never really content with where they are. There is always someone else who has a better home, a better car, better furniture, or sends their children to better schools, or spends more on cosmetic surgery.

Aspiring to lead a more luxurious life is a treadmill that keeps consumers in debt and constantly working harder to get where everyone else seems to be. This is a positive climate for businesses.

, Advertising, and Artificial Needs

The desire for more goods and services is enabled by modern communication technologies. This played out following the introduction of television to towns in the US West. The rise of petty thefts that followed was motivated by dissatisfaction of viewers with their standard of living compared to that depicted on the small screen (4). In marketing terms, demand for many consumer goods was created overnight.

The same phenomenon occurs on the Internet where users are exposed to luxurious living by celebrities around the globe. Of course, Internet shopping is the ultimate enabler for luxury goods because they are rarely more than a few clicks away.

The desire for luxurious, and status-signaling, products is a powerful motive for workers. Indeed Thorstein Veblen, an early sociologist, argued that “conspicuous consumption” is the main reason that people with money choose to spend it (5).

The carrots of consumption may well be more potent than the sticks of in boosting work effort. Ordinary consumers today behave rather like the elites of the past with the key difference that elites don't need to work. Even the poorest segment of our society give in to cravings for luxury goods from designer watches, shoes, and sunglasses to electronic devices and cars.

Modern societies are something of a rat where people work hard at consuming during their off time and work even harder during their hours on the job so that they can earn enough to pay their bills. The irony is that although we live like the kings of history in terms of material standard of living, we do not recognize this reality (1, 2).

The flavor of this discontent is captured in the witticism that a rising tide lifts all yachts (rather than all boats). Improvements in living conditions in developed countries are real, substantial, and historically unprecedented, although pessimists cannot accept this and focus upon the unequal distribution of wealth.

Life expectancy of US residents doubled in the 20th century, for example, but this fact is lost today in concern over the fact that rich people live longer.

We would also like their money and avarice is a cruel master. Despite having too much, we are tormented by the desire for more knowing that other people are a lot better off than we are.

====== 210 ========

DO YOU HAVE TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING?

The old green paint on our house was chipped and fading, the color chosen years ago by the former owners. So my husband and decided to get the house painted gray with a white trim. We contacted a painter who brought us two books of paint chips with pages and pages of different shades of gray.

Wandering through what seemed like fifty shades of gray, we experienced what psychologists Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward called “the paradox of choice” (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Overwhelmed by all the options, it took us over a week to make our choice.

Psychologists tell us that being able to choose is a sign of autonomy and well-being (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Americans value freedom of choice as fundamental to our democracy, essential to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of .” We want to be free to explore our options, free to choose where we live and work and what we buy. If choice is good, then it follows that more choice is better. Or is it?

Source: By Huguenau. beer and wine aisle of a supermarket. Public domain on Wikimedia Commons.

Research has revealed that too many choices can paralyze us with indecision. Schwartz and Ward mention a supermarket that offers 285 brands of cookies, 230 soups, and 275 types of cereal. I recall the supermarket a scene in the film “Moscow on Hudson.” After years of waiting in line for coffee in Russia, a young defector played by Robin Williams, enters a New York market. Looking around frantically at all the choices in the coffee aisle and repeating “coffee, coffee, coffee,” he passes out from sensory overload.

How many choices are enough? Too much? In 1954, psychologist George Miller published an article about “the magic number seven, plus or minus two,” arguing that we can only keep 5 to 9 items in our working at a time. More than that and it becomes too much to manage.

Our economy presents us with a dizzying array of options, but, as Schwartz and his colleagues have pointed out, people actually feel worse as their choices increase (Schwartz et al, 2002) And now the Internet offers us an endless succession of posts on social , pop-up advertisements, videos, and links.

What’s the effect of all this? Is our culture offering us greater autonomy or distracting us from the important choices in our lives with a dizzying range of consumer choices?

Research has shown that people who “maximize”—trying to make the best possible choice from a wide range of options—experience greater , , self-doubt, and regret than those who “satisfice,” accepting a result good enough to meet their desired criteria (Schwartz et al, 2002).

So the next time you are faced with what seems like an endless array of options, you might want to consider what you’re really looking for. What are the important criteria that would make you satisfied with this choice?

References

Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. The Psychological Review, 63, 81-97.

Schwartz, B., &Ward, A. (2004). Doing better but feeling worse: The paradox of choice. In P. A. Linley & S. Joseph (Eds.). in Practice (pp. 86-104). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Schwartz, B., Ward, A., Monterosso, J, Lyubomirsky, S., White, K., & Lehman, D. (2002). Maximizing versus satisficing: Happiness is a matter of choice. Journal of and Social Psychology, 83, 1178-1197.

====== 211 ========

IS INSTAGRAM MAKING YOU POOR?

There’s a game I like to play whenever I feel the gut-punch of while scrolling through social . I call it, “How much did that selfie cost?” I play this game to remind myself that many people, including my , are spending WAY TOO MUCH MONEY on things that don’t last, often racking up credit-card debt that will keep them up at night for months, all for the glory of that one fabulous photo.

How much did that selfie cost? Usually, the answer is, “Too much,” but that doesn’t necessarily stop us from feeling a twinge of pain when we look at these posts. In fact, evidence has been mounting for a while that social media may cause or increase 1. Short of logging off completely, how’s a person supposed to deal with the onslaught of social comparisons that we face each time we check in with our friends and family? In this article, I'll talk about why we NEED (yes, need) to compare ourselves, and how we can do it in a healthy way.

Comparisons are inevitable

Some people advocate a lifestyle free of comparisons. Just stop, they say, and you’ll be happier and healthier. That’s a nice sentiment, but not very practical. First of all, even if you cut yourself off from all social media, you would still have the daily reminder of other people’s lives and money through their cars, clothes, houses, etc. Long before social media, the Joneses were the target of envy. Now, we have the Joneses, the Kardashians, and everyone in between, but regardless of how or to whom we are comparing, the very ACT of comparing ourselves with others is an innate human activity, and to suggest that we can just stop is to deny the reality of human .

Back in the 1950’s Leon Festinger wrote a groundbreaking paper on 2 that has since become the foundation of an entire branch of psychology. In this work, he laid out considerable evidence for two ideas.

1. “There exists, in the human organism, a drive to evaluate his opinions and his abilities.”3

Simply put, we want to know how we measure up. We need to have a sense of how well we are living; how successfully we are doing this thing called life. The standards by which we judge ourselves may differ wildly depending on our time, our culture, our age, our tastes, etc. but the need to evaluate our life’s progress by some standard is innate and can’t be removed. It’s natural and can be healthy if done right (more on this later).

2. “To the extent that objective, non-social means are not available, people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison respectively with the opinions and abilities of others.”3

There is no objective standard that defines what it means to live well. I can measure my by objective standards like BMI, cholesterol, blood pressure, and the presence or absence of disease. When it comes to lifestyle, there is no metric that marks the line where someone is considered successful. Rather, we are left to define success for ourselves, and often we use our friends, family, colleagues, and even strangers as the scale by which we measure our progress. This can be a problem when it comes to our financial lives.

Comparisons can be toxic

The problem isn’t that we compare ourselves, it’s WHO we choose as the target for comparison. I recently surveyed a group of people about their financial lives, their financial comparisons, and their emotional well-being. What I found was quite interesting.

We tend to compare up, and that brings us down.

Regardless of how poor or wealthy people were, most of them tended to compare themselves with those they thought were better off4. That's understandable when you are on the bottom of the economic ladder (there’s nowhere to look but up), but even those earning top salaries were more likely to judge themselves against those with more. Maybe we think that by looking at those further up the ladder we’ll be motivated to improve ourselves? That’s possible, but the effect of upward comparisons was fairly toxic, from what I could see.

In every income group, people who reported making frequent, upward comparisons also reported having more debt, lower savings, higher levels, and lower satisfaction with their own situation than people who compared themselves with those less fortunate. When asked about the emotions they experienced in their own financial lives, people who compared upward were experiencing significantly more negative feelings than those who did not.

Source: Source: Morningstar, Inc.

Clearly, comparing up isn’t doing us any favors. This suggests that when we scan Instagram or and judge our own lives by the way they compare to those dream vacation photos and shiny new cars all our friends are enjoying, we may be actively sabotaging our own finances. But if Festinger was right, and social comparisons are inevitable, then how are we supposed to avoid doing damage to our hearts and our wallets?

The Exception to the Rule

In my study, there was a small group that defied the trend. Most people said that they usually compared themselves to a friend, family member, neighbor or colleague. All of these comparison targets followed the same trend: upward comparisons were most common, and they were associated with lower financial well-being.

The exception to the rule was a small group of people who said they compare themselves to a role model or mentor. In this group, regardless of whether the role model was better or worse off, financially, the person making the comparison tended to feel good about their own financial life. Not just good, but compared to the rest of the bunch, they felt great!

I followed this study with an experiment where I asked one group of people to choose a financial role model and answer a few questions about them while another group answered questions about their normal comparison targets. Both groups then answered questions about their financial habits and emotions.

The people who thought about a role model were significantly more confident and felt more in control of their financial lives after the exercise than the people who made their normal comparisons. This suggests that, while we can’t get rid of our need to compare, we might be able to make those comparisons work FOR us and not against us.

How to choose a role model (and not have it backfire)

Research into the effects of role models on and behavior suggests that we need to take care when we choose a role model, or the results can backfire5. Penelope Lockwood is a giant in this area of research, and her work suggests that people need to be careful when choosing a role model. According to the results of her studies, people who choose a role model whose success is far beyond what they themselves believe they can realistically achieve can actually become demoralized rather than energized by the comparison. This is why Warren Buffet is probably not a good financial role model. Unless what you admire and want to emulate is his humility and habit of living below his means, then using him as your comparison target will probably do you more harm than good.

So, RIGHT NOW, think about someone whose financial life or behavior you admire. You don’t need to know them or their finances well. The point is to find someone whose lifestyle you admire (even if you only have a glimpse), and that you think you can realistically achieve for yourself over time. Make sure the goal you are setting is realistic, positive, and practical. Anecdotally, when I have done this exercise with strangers, be they online survey participants, friends, colleagues, or financial advisors, there are two things that people seem to admire most:

1. Contentment.

2. A lack of stress over money.

These characteristics likely go hand in hand.

Once you have someone in mind, ask yourself the following questions:

1. What is it about their financial life or behavior that you admire?

2. What qualities or values do you think have led them to their current situation?

3. Do you have (or can you cultivate) any of those qualities or values?

4. What is ONE small thing you can do RIGHT AWAY to be just a little more like them, financially?

5. Picture yourself doing that one thing, even just once.

Role models can help channel our natural need to compare into an action-oriented energy that helps us to make progress toward a real goal. By redirecting our toxic comparisons to this role model, we can (hopefully) avoid the overspending (or under-saving) that can come from trying to keep up with the expensive selfie habits of the masses.

Conclusion

The next time you come across that gut-punch Instagram post, catch yourself. Take a breath and think about the person you just named above. Remind yourself of the qualities you admire in them, and of the good things that are around the corner for you by following in their footsteps. Maybe, then, that expensive selfie won’t seem quite so admirable in comparison.

====== 212 ========

HOW REFLECTING ON OUR POSSESSIONS CAN CURB IMPULSE BUYING

“Wilful waste makes woeful want.” – Mrs. Gaskell, Wives and Daughters, 1866.

A consistent theme of this blog is discussing ways to shop, buy, and consume prudently, and derive maximum pleasure from these activities. Unfortunately, most of us have far too many possessions to fully enjoy or use. Yet we keep adding to our store of belongings in ways big and small. Instead of increasing enjoyment, our possessions overwhelm us and our total pleasure is reduced.

Source: Row of Shoes by Duong Tran Quoc Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

Take the case of shoes. American men own an average of 11 pairs and American women own 13 pairs. Their shoe collection equates to two and a half weeks of income for the average American. Yet, people use only about three pairs regularly and own several shoes they have never worn.

The twentieth-century aphorism, “Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without,” seems laughably quaint and naïve in the light of such excessive shopping activity. We hardly use up or wear our any of our belongings, and instead of making do or doing without, we keep buying new ones.

Can we turn this ship around, so to speak? In this post, I want to write about an interesting finding from a research paper that I coauthored with two Rice University doctoral students, Jihye Jung and Nivriti Chowdhri which suggests one promising method. In the research, we studied the usefulness of a we call “reflection” to reduce people's shopping urges. It can be used “just in time” – right when an urge to buy something is experienced.

Reflection is about thinking deeply and remembering in detail how you used any one of your possessions recently. In our research, we’ve found it helps if the reflected-upon possession is something functional, like a kitchen implement, a lawn-mower or a wristwatch. Here’s the instruction from one of our studies which included 165 participants:

“In this exercise, your task is to describe your recent experience with a product. Specifically, we would like you to think of any product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 1: Take a minute and think of a product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 2: In a few sentences, please describe this product in detail. Step 3: Now we want you to describe how you used the product on the most recent occasion. In the space provided below, explain WHEN, WHERE, HOW, and HOW LONG you used this product. Please describe your experience with the product in as much detail as possible, and please spend at least TWO MINUTES on this task.”

And here are two examples of our participants’ reflections to give you a better sense of the exercise:

Source: Shoe Wardrobe by Jakob Owens Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

“I have a pair of light Nike running shoes I used this morning. I bought them about a year ago for about $80. The reason I bought them was because my brother has a same pair which I tried on and really liked so I bought my own. I used them this morning to go for a run. I went for a run around the neighborhood for half an hour. I really like these shoes because they're really light and they breathe easy. I use them to go on runs. Sometimes I use them at work since I do a lot of walking and they are so comfortable.” (25-year-old male).

“I just purchased a Kindle Fire. It is black. I can read books and access the internet. It opens a world of novelty to me. I read a book in bed and checked the weather this morning before even getting up. I spent about 45 mins. I also downloaded several apps. I was laying down and the ease of Kindle use allowed me to comfortably read without noise to wake up my partner.” (29-year-old female).

The study had two other conditions. One was a control condition in which participants didn’t do anything. In the other condition, they formed a plan to use a possession they hadn’t recently used, which is a common situation many of us face because we have so many things we haven't used recently.

After this experimental manipulation, study participants were given a series of five products. These were a cashmere sweater, a stainless steel watch, a coffee maker, a chair, and a box of Godiva chocolates. For each item, participants indicated how much they were willing to pay (WTP) for it. We calculated a WTP index for each participant, by standardizing each item’s WTP and then adding the values.

Source: Reflection study results/ Graphic by Utpal Dholakia

As the figure shows, those who had reflected on using their possession recently had a much lower willingness-to-pay for a basket of products than either the control or the plan conditions. To give you a sense of the actual numbers, the total WTP for the five items of those who reflected was $227, compared to $265 for the control group and $281 for the planning group. In other words, reflection about recently used possessions lowered the person’s willingness-to-pay for new items by about 14% compared to the control condition.

Reflection is like a mental “shopping the closet” visualization, and a useful way to stifle the urge to buy new things. Why does this effect occur? That will be the subject of a future blog post.

====== 213 ========

DEMOCRATS FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGING SECULAR VOTERS

Source: DonkeyHotey, Flickr, Creative Commons license

The recent midterm elections reflect the increasing clout of secular voters, a group that has grown significantly in recent years, and at least one major party is starting to take note.

According to polling data released by Pew, 17 percent of voters in 2018 were religiously unaffiliated, up from only 11 percent in 2006 and 12 percent in both 2010 and 2014. While this unaffiliated bloc grew by about half, the “Protestant/other Christian” bloc was shrinking, down from 55 percent in 2006 and 2010, to 53 percent in 2014, to only 47 percent this year.

As impressive as these figures are for the religiously unaffiliated (also known as “Nones”), the numbers suggest that there is room for even more growth. The 17 percent figure, for example, still trails the overall size of the religiously unaffiliated demographic nationwide (24 percent of the United States population as a whole, according to PRRI data, and an even larger percentage of the younger population). The Nones were in single digits a generation ago, but now they are one of the largest and youngest demographics.

The growth of the influence of Nones would appear to be good news for Democrats, as recent history shows that the unaffiliated tend to lean heavily blue. In the 2010, 2014 and 2018 midterms, about seven in ten Nones voted Democratic. By comparison, 50 percent of Catholics votes for Democrats in 2018, and slightly fewer in 2010 and 2014. Protestants have favored Republicans in each of the last four midterm elections, according to the Pew data, with white evangelicals being the most solidly in the GOP corner (75 percent in 2018 and similar figures in previous years).

For anyone familiar with the culture wars, none of these numbers should be very surprising. The Religious Right has called the GOP home since 1980 when the Majority helped elect Ronald Reagan, and the party has consistently courted the conservative Christian demographic ever since. Opposing abortion rights and LGBT rights, denying scientific consensus on issues like evolution and global warming when it conflicts with literal interpretations of the Bible, Republicans have frequently snubbed the secular demographic while catering to the party’s Christian base. As such, it’s no surprise that those who say they “never” go to church voted 68/30 for Democrats in 2018, according to the Pew data, whereas those who attend church weekly voted for Republicans 58/40.

Despite the GOP's romance with the Christian right, over the years the Democratic Party has never openly pursued the nonreligious demographic. On the contrary, elected Democrats have usually been older, oblivious the growing secularity of the population, and they’ve often accepted the much-repeated but inaccurate claim that America is a “very religious country.” Although a large and growing portion of the American population is secular, and even many who claim religious affiliation are lukewarm about it, establishment Democrats have unfortunately been slow on the uptake.

Finally, however, there are signs that Democrats are starting to appreciate the importance of the Nones. In what might be a first, the Massachusetts Democratic Party this month passed a resolution recognizing the importance of the religiously unaffiliated demographic. (Full disclosure: I was involved in drafting the resolution.) The resolution, which can be seen here, recognizes the “value, ethical soundness, and importance of the religiously unaffiliated” and affirms that “the ‘Nones’ are a group that, as much as any other, advocates for rational public policy based on sound science and universal humanistic values.” The document is also critical of the use of claims of “religious liberty” as a means of justifying policy that threatens the rights of women and minorities.

Time will tell whether other states, or even the national party, will follow the Massachusetts lead, but it seems clear that many are starting to recognize that the secular demographic is not going away. Earlier this year, for example, several members of Congress even formed a Congressional Freethought Caucus to solidify the presence of secular values on Capitol Hill. Perhaps not surprisingly, all members of the caucus so far are Democrats.

As the secular demographic grows and flexes its muscle, time will tell whether the GOP makes an effort to attract them. Seculars are not monolithic, so traditional Republican mantras of low taxes and deregulation might resonate with some, but the secular numbers within the GOP are likely to remain relatively low so long as the Christian right is steering the ship. As such, if demographics continue to trend secular, at some point Republicans will have to consider whether there is a future in Bible-based .

On : @ahadave

====== 214 ========

7 REASONS WHY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE HAVING LESS SEX

In our highly sexualized and increasingly permissive culture, you might think that young adults are having more than ever before. If so, you would be wrong.

In a lengthy and very popular cover story in the December 2018 issue of The Atlantic magazine, “The Sex Recession,” Kate Julian argues that “young people are launching their sex lives later and having sex less frequently than members of previous generations.” The question is why.

Among the evidence Julian cites:

“In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t.”

"People now in their early 20s are two and a half times as likely to be abstinent as Gen Xers were at that age; 15 percent report having had no sex since they reached adulthood.”

In the U.S., “about 60 percent of adults under age 35 now live without a spouse or a partner.” (Of course, that does not mean they live without sex – more on that later.)

In Japan in 2015, 43 percent of young people (ages 18 to 34) were virgins. Married people were not having much sex, either: 47 percent said it had been more than a month since they had sex.

Julian mentioned in passing many possible reasons for what she calls “the sex recession,” but underscored 6 as having come up most often in her research and interviews. (She combined parental pressure with hook-up culture; I’m separating them. I’ve also changed the order of the reasons.) I’ll recount her reasons first. Then I will add a 7th reason, my own. I’ll also explain what I think Julian got wrong. I’ll end by suggesting that the real issue is one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology: What are humans really like?

Here are The Atlantic’s top 6 reasons for the sexual recession.

1. Parental Pressure

It’s their ’ fault. That’s one of the reasons author Kate Julian posits for the decline in sex among young adults. Invoking the term of derision, “helicopter parents,” she says that parents’ “about their children’s educational and economic prospects” has increased. Parents are urging their kids to focus on building their credentials in high school and college rather than investing in . They are also supervising their kids more closely, leaving them with less free time for fooling around away from watchful eyes.

2. Bodily Self-consciousness, Distraction, Deprivation, and Other Sources of Inhibition

Young adults may be having less sex because their potential for being aroused is being undermined in many ways. Digital distractions are among the most obvious potential culprits. Sleep deprivation doesn’t help, either. Having a negative , or feeling self-conscious about your naked body, can also stand in the way of sexual fulfillment, and Julian suggests that today’s young adults may struggle more with these issues.

If, as some have suggested, anxiety and are on the rise in the younger generations, that, too, could account for some of the decrease in sex. Anti-depressants can also undermine sexual desire.

3. The Problem with Apps

It might seem like the proliferation of dating apps has made it easier to find dating partners, but that is not necessarily so. Kate Julian found that Tinder tends to be a huge waste of time. It takes an average of more than 60 swipes to get one match, and many matches do not result in a 2-way exchange of text-messages.

And, of course, the matches are not evenly distributed. The “highly photogenic” people, as Julian tactfully puts it, are the ones finding dating apps most useful.

The expectation that people will use dating apps to connect with other people has, Julian believes, a troubling implication. The kinds of casual overtures that people used to make, now seem creepy. Apparently, that even applies to striking up conversations in bars.

If dating apps are wildly inefficient and ineffective, and it is problematic to ask people out (even if you have gotten to know them a bit, for example, by working in the same building or playing on the same ), then finding opportunities to have sex is going to be difficult, too.

4. Hook-ups Instead of Romantic Relationships

If young people were having copious amounts of hook-up sex, then maybe their overall rates of sex would not be decreasing, even though they are dating less often and are less likely to have special romantic relationships. Actual rates of casual sex, though, have not lived up to the hype.

Here is Kate Julian’s summary of the findings from Lisa Wade’s book, American Hookup: The New Culture of Sex on Campus:

“Roughly one-third were…”abstainers” – they opted out of hook-up culture entirely. A little more than a third were “dabblers” – they hooked up sometimes, but ambivalently. Less than a quarter were “enthusiasts,” who delighted in hooking up. The remainder were in long-term relationships.”

The percentages probably translate into something like this:

33 percent, abstainers

35 percent, dabblers

23 percent, enthusiasts

9 percent, long-term relationships

5. Sex Is Bad or Painful More Often Than We Realize

Another reason the rate of sex may be decreasing is that, more often than we realize, the sex that young adults are having is bad sex or painful sex. They are also more willing to say “no thanks” to having any more of it.

Young adults are experiencing more of the kinds of sex that is popularized in , such as anal sex and choking (erotic asphyxiation). Julian points to a study showing that the percent of women in their late 20s who had tried anal sex had doubled from 20 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 2012. Research shows, she says, that “in the absence of high-quality sex , teen boys look to porn for help sex.”

Plenty of women are not enjoying anal sex or vaginal intercourse. In 2012, Julian notes, 30 percent of women experienced pain during vaginal intercourse and a whopping 72 percent said that the anal sex they experienced was painful.

Orgasms in the context of hookups with a new partner are strikingly rare. In the study Julian described, just 31 percent of men and a jaw-droppingly low 11 percent of women experienced under those conditions.

One of the sex researchers Julian interviewed, Debby Herbenick, suggests a positive interpretation of the decline in the frequency with which young people are having sex. Today’s adults feel freer to say no to sex they don’t want.

Julian also believes that women are now valuing their female more. She seems to attribute that to their disappointment with men and romantic relationships. (I think that interpretation, on its own, is demeaning. My reading of the relevant information is that appreciation for our friends is growing, even apart from any bad experiences with heterosexual romantic relationships.)

6. People Are Satisfying Their Sexual Desires, Just Not with Other People

Although rates of intercourse have been decreasing – the main finding that the Atlantic article was trying to explain – that doesn’t mean that people are not experiencing sexual pleasure. One of the studies Julian mentioned found dramatic increases in rates of from 1992 to 2014 – double for men (in 2014, 54 percent said that they masturbated in a given week) and more than triple for women (26 percent).

The increase could be linked to the greater accessibility of porn over time. Other products and services that facilitate sexual experiences without involving other humans are also becoming more popular – sex dolls, for example.

Stop Blaming Single People

Kate Julian said she started out expecting to say more about “the benefits of loosening social conventions, and of less couple-centric pathways to a happy life.” But she ended up focusing on other concerns instead. One problem, I think, is that her sources were comprised overwhelmingly of people who were not ever going to offer an affirming perspective on single life.

Perhaps she relied on what those people told her and did not read the relevant original sources. These claims that she made, for example, are somewhere between misleading and just plain wrong:

“Not having a partner – sexual or romantic – can be both a cause and effect of discontent. Moreover, as American social institutions have withered, having a life partner has become a stronger predictor than ever of well-being.”

No, getting married does not improve people’s or

You would think, from reading those claims, that people who marry become happier and healthier. But by 2012, there were already 18 studies that followed the same people over time, as they went from being single to getting married. They did not become happier than they were when they were single, except sometimes for a brief “honeymoon effect” early on. The most recent and most sophisticated studies show that people who marry do not become healthier, either, and depending on the measure, sometimes become less healthy.

What about Julian’s claim about the growing importance, over time, of having a life partner? If she were right about that, then should be linked to greater well-being for younger people than for older ones. A 2017 study by Dmitri Tumin examined the links between marriage and health for people born in the decades starting in 1955, 1965, and 1975. Getting married did not mean getting healthier for the men or the women in any of the three cohorts.

Tumin looked at his data in all sorts of ways, but only found one hint that getting married was good for health: Among the oldest women (those born between 1955 and 1964), those who married for the first time and stayed married for at least 10 years become slightly healthier than when they were single. But for the comparable women in the middle group (born between 1965 and 1974), there were no health benefits whatsoever. And for the youngest group (born between 1975 and 1984), there was a slight, though statistically insignificant, deterioration in their health after marrying. That’s just the opposite of what Julian claimed.

Frequency of sex is declining most for married people, not singles

Perhaps the most relevant finding is about the rate of sex, over time, among single and married people. Analyses of survey data from 1989 through 2014 showed that Americans today are having less sex. More importantly, as I noted in my discussion of the results of that study:

“The decline in sexual frequency was not the same for everyone. The decrease in having sex was especially steep for people who were married or divorced and much less so (if at all) for lifelong single people.”

Maybe instead of spending 15 printed magazine pages explaining the decreasing frequency of sex among young adults, most of whom are single, Julian should have instead focused more of her on married people. Why is it that their rates of sex are decreasing the most?

7. (My suggestion, not The Atlantic’s) The Rise of Individualism Means That People Have More Opportunities to Live the Lives They Want, Not the Ones Dictated by Norms or Pressures

The first sentence of “The Sex Recession” was, “These should be boom times for sex.” Continuing, Kate Julian added:

“The share of Americans who say sex between unmarried adults is “not at all wrong” is at an all-time high. New cases of HIV are at an all-time low. Most women can – at last – get birth control for free, and the morning-after pill without a prescription. [With regard to practices such as polyamory and anal sex]...our culture has never been more tolerant of sex in just about every permutation.”

And yet, the frequency with which young people are having sex is declining. So is the rate at which married people are having sex.

Perhaps one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology is, what is human ? What are humans really like? It would be impossible to remove every social pressure, every norm, every obligation, and just see how people act. But as more and more constraints get lifted, such as the ones Julian described, we can edge a little closer to seeing what humans would do if left to their own devices.

“Our for sex is supposed to be primal,” Julian noted, and yet people often “pick messing around online over actual messing around.” Maybe, she suggests, “the human sex drive is more fragile than we thought.” Also consistent with that interpretation is the growing recognition of asexuality as a sexual orientation and not a sexual dysfunction.

Julian quotes Emily Nagoski, author of Come as You Are, who has an apt answer to all the talk about how fundamental sex is:

====== 215 ========

YOU ARE (NOT) RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWING EVERYTHING

I was catching up with my friend Helen at a coffee shop in Chicago. Beautiful and , Helen is the kind of person you take one look at and you just know she has it all together. She tells me she has never struggled with at any point in her life. She was good at academics. She felt good about how she looked. She was self-assured socially and in her .

Then she became a mother.

“My confidence was destroyed. That was when I first felt incompetent,” Helen told me. “I had always felt competent at work and in my life, and that made me feel confident. It took me about three years to realize what was going on as a mother. I didn’t feel confident about my choices, I didn’t feel confident about my plans.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Well, I would ask myself, ‘Is this going to result in the outcome I’m looking for?’ And there’s no manual for that.”

“So what outcome are you looking for?”

“I want a successful child, right? I want a happy kid, and I want a successful kid. I didn’t know if I was making all the right choices. I actually feel like we parent in the age of a ton of research. So you have no excuse either. You can't fly blind. If you're flying blind, It’s because you're not doing your job. You're not reading and you're not doing your job.”

Source: Rawpixel on Unsplash

“Wow, that is a big job. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I research. Research helps us understand and those insights can really help. But, somehow, the way you talk about research feels like a terrible burden.”

“Exactly,” Helen went on, “I almost feel like the preponderance of literature out there actually makes it worse, because I feel responsible to know the answer. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a one year old. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a three year old. I've always said ‘I wish I had a manual that would tell me how I should react in every situation.’ But in some ways, we almost have that and that's what's killing us. I know what I should be doing and and I feel like I have to have the answer at every moment and I just don’t. I don’t.”

“Well that is quite a ShouldStorm right there!” I responded. We laughed and took a sip of our coffees. “So, I think you are saying that having the right, research-based answer in each specific situation is what would make you feel confident.”

“Yes,” she said emphatically, “The responsibility to all the literature out there is killing us. There is a world of literature out there and I know if I just look hard enough, I can find those answers.” Helen looked tired.

“That’s really interesting, because I am a pediatrician and have studied extensively, and I don’t have all of those answers.”

Source: Photo by Eliabe Costa on Unsplash

What if we did have a manual for every situation?

Helen had just described something I had identified through my work: one of the three untrue laws of the Shouldstorm. Untrue Law #1: We need to get it right, all the time. Often we don’t realize we believe this, but we act like we do. We criticize ourselves or feel burdened by worry if we don’t get it just right in each situation as parents. Even if you recognize that this is being too hard on ourselves, we still wish we could do it.

Now, for a moment, imagine this from your child’s perspective. Your parents tell you that they love you no matter what, and that it’s okay to make mistakes. But they are hard on themselves if they don’t get it just right all the time. Will you believe them? Will you be confused and wonder if they mean it about loving you? Won’t you think that really the rule is to get it just right all the time? Won’t it make you worry?

Helen wants a successful, happy child. I am certain that a successful child is not a child who has to know exactly what to do in each circumstance. That is a burdened and unhappy child.

What Research is For (Hint: It’s not Cyber-Chondria)

Research findings can be profoundly helpful to us, but that depends on how we view them. When research (which has advanced our ) becomes a burden, an obligation and a long list of shoulds, it robs is of the core of what makes us good parents. Well designed scientific research is a genuine good— if we understand it for what it is. Research is a tool; a knowledge base and a way of producing knowledge. Here’s the thing about tools: they are only as a good as the way we use them.

In September 2017, the BBC reported a growing problem: cyber-chondria. They reported that a of researchers had found that “Worrying excessively about , and going for unnecessary appointments and tests, is a growing problem - fueled by looking up symptoms on the internet.” This “health ” even produced physical symptoms like persistent chest pains and headaches. We doctors call that somatization, and we see anxiety producing physical symptoms quite often in pediatric practice.

"Dr Google is very informative, but he doesn't put things in the right proportion,” they observed. Not even the doctor’s reassurance relieved the patient’s worry. The researchers found that the answer was not more tests, or making their doctor read all the articles the worried patients were reading, but rather anxiety-reducing .

This shows up in parents too. Untrue Law of the ShouldStorm #1 convinces us as parents that We need to get it right, all the time. Part of that is feeling like we need to know. Some of us choose the research, some of us choose talking to our neighbors and doing what they do, some of us read online groups. And it creates a terrible unsettled feeling that something is wrong with us and our kids.

Let’s walk out of the ShouldStorm and free our kids, as we free ourselves, from the burden of having to know it all. Real confidence is about . Real success is about being safe in our own skins, not jumping out of them from anxiety. A truly happy child, a truly happy parent is able to connect and enjoy other people, undistracted by nagging fears. The more we try to get it just the way we should, the more rigid we become. The Shoulds cut us off from our kids, and that’s nobody’s idea of success.

Is it possible to use research to help our ?

How can we use the wonderful advances child development knowledge in a way that builds our confidence? We can start by watching our sources.

Websites: Watch out! I give my patients a list of reliable websites and steer them away from the ones that raise anxiety. In general, good advice equips and bad advice makes you anxious. When in doubt try the AAP for parent questions or the CDC for reliable medical science.

Social : Double watch out! Social media can connect you with supportive who care for you or share encouraging articles. Or it can introduce you to misinformation and criticism straight from the ShouldStorm. Is your heart rate going up and your breathing getting shallow? You probably just got shoulded on.

Your pediatrician: We love you and your kids. We took an oath and we meant it. We are committed to helping you do a great job. But try to go easy on us, because, as the BBC reports: "People now go to their GPs with a whole list of things they've looked up on the internet, and the poor GP, five minutes into the consultation, has four pages of reading to do.”

====== 216 ========

THE VERY HUMAN FUTURE OF TV IN AN AGE OF AI

Source: Secret Cinema

A couple of months ago, I was invited to speak at the Edinburgh TV Festival, as part of the “How to Win the Future” session with futurist Monika Bielskyte and blockchain-for-TV startup founder Ashley Turing, moderated by the Irish comedian and TV show host Dara O’Briain.

I spoke about the need for romanticism in business, which was less of a foreign concept than at other industry events in which I have taken part. Television is a romantic business: Inherently, it’s all about imagining other worlds and creating meaning through powerful storytelling; it’s about adventure, drama, extreme emotions, and human connections.

Disrupted by FAANGs and AI

The industry is nervous, though: Both public broadcasters and increasingly also pay-TV that the so-called FAANGs ( , Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) might be eating their lunch. In Edinburgh, just before our session, Labor Party Jeremy Corbyn even proposed a “journalism tax” for tech companies.

Further, (AI) has arisen as a threat to the very heart of TV—storytelling. While AI is already superior in process automation and data processing, it is now also invading inherently human turf: and emotions. We have already seen AI-composed music, fashion design, journalism, even paintings, poetry, movies, and more. While the results are not convincing yet, the impetus of data-driven “forced reductionism,” to use Joichi Ito’s term, will undoubtedly affect TV as well.

There are two scenarios: We can use AI to enhance human ingenuity and creative expression; or we can use it to end up in a dystopian, uber-algorithmic content farm where we essentially get to consume the data we produce.

Storytellers have seen this looming conflict all along, but their visions have mostly been lopsided toward the dystopian: War of the Worlds, The Matrix, Minority Report, Her, 1984, The Lobster, Ex Machina, Frankenstein, The Truman Show, Westworld, and Black Mirror, to mention just a few. As Monika Bielskyte pointed out in her talk, when we imagine the future, we tend to do it in dystopian terms. She illustrated her point by showing us the Google results for “utopian cities”: Even that term yielded a collection of images that look like Gotham.

There is never going to be a shortage of or outright cynicism. This is why in this day and age, storytellers have a right and a responsibility to inspire and provoke, not simply to depress their audiences so they turn away. In fact, what should give the TV networks hope is the very fact that they can give us hope and an impetus to make change.

This can start by creating positive narratives for AI, featuring an AI as a warm, friendly, trusted, and perhaps even funny character — a pursuit that novelist and Hollywood consultant Aditi Khorana recently facilitated in a workshop at the House of Beautiful Business conference.

Connecting us with the other

Moreover, TV makers should remember that at its best TV is a shared experience that fosters and belonging, forms and meaning, and strengthens citizenship and diversity. Television is still a powerful medium when it comes to showing us and connecting us with “the other,” and in our fragmented or divided societies this capacity is ever more important.

No wonder diversity and inclusion were critical topics in Edinburgh. The TV industry has powerful means to strengthen it: first of all, it can produce content that shows the full range of humanity, from the local pub in Brighton to a micro-enterprise in Nairobi, different cultures, ethnicities, generations, and identities, especially those that are fluid, non-binary, contradictory. Second, it can feature a diverse cast of characters and create more roles for these identities both on camera and off. “Representation starts both in front of and behind the camera,” Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina told Variety in a new interview.

Moreover, stories will become even more powerful in the future as we will have more unstructured time on our hands and may need more of both on the human condition and a device to escape from it. Storytellers can use AI and Artificial Emotional Intelligence (AEI) to augment, celebrate, and shape their stories.

Here are some ideas for TV makers:

Co-create stories with AI. AI can compile plot options based on AEI (scanning and analyzing human emotions) and/or the personal input and track record of humans, aggregated data, and predictive analytics. It can thus help crowdsource content and narratives and inspire human participation. AI could help personalize VR/AR and other immersive content: AEI, volumetric capture (as used by the award-winning Movie Vestige), AI avatars, or transmedia storytelling can make us feel more and create stronger emotions as well as perhaps even new emotions. We humans like to gather. Can the collective, social experience of TV be the ultimate differentiator and humanizer? What’s the Secret Cinema of TV? What does “TV-as-experience” look like? Aside from public viewing or gamification, are there business models such as virtual viewing communities or even co-viewing spaces similar to co-working spaces? Is there room for a “WeView”? Make it realer than real. In-the-Real-Life still beats AI, from Twitch to life-streaming (e.g. Ice Poseidon) to the ultimate gamification and reality TV of life. Stretch and overcome time: from time-shifting (DVR) to bingewatching (Netflix) to "holotime" (the past, present, and future of characters and viewers intertwined). What if TV networks co-monetized with viewers (based on their true data sovereignty)? What if they used AI and Blockchain technology to empower consumers to hold on to their personal data and consumption data and sell it to advertisers/networks, or give it away to non-profits to enhance social impact storytelling? Can there maybe be a token-based revenue share between networks, talent, and data-sovereign viewers? Is there a market for the Mozilla ("Internet for people, not profit") of TV (the anti-FAANG, so to speak; see Facebook’s patent to eavesdrop on TV consumption) with the result of more loyal audiences in the long run?

The only way to beat AI is to create stories that AI doesn’t know yet. If we do so, then TV can remind us of what it means to be human.

Only then will we look at the screen and still see ... us.

====== 217 ========

WHAT'S YOUR STORY? LIFE AS NARRATIVE

Source: unsplash

Whether or not we are truly inventors of our own lives, we certainly are inventors of the story of our lives. For some, this story is clear and in the forefront of their minds, becoming what drives them, what determines how they spend their time and energy. For many others the story is less clear, fragmented, or seemingly outside their awareness but often easily seen by others: Jake always casts himself as the victim, Sara the martyr, Carly always thinks things will work out for the best, while Henry is always braced for the worst.

Our story is shaped by the stories of others, those important to us who were not only role models but who also doled out their own particular philosophies of life. And of course, there are our own experiences and values. Our story becomes the lens through which we view life’s events, our with others; it determines what can expect of ourselves and life itself.

So, what’s your story? Here are some questions to help you define yours. As you answer them, think not in terms how you think things ought to be, but rather how you think and behave in everyday life.

How safe is the world, and other people?

This is about trust, about and . Bad things happen out of the blue; the other shoe always drops; others are out to screw you or scam you. You need to be cautious, alert, take what people say with a grain of salt, trust your family or your kind, but be wary of everyone else.

Or no, sure there are always some bad apples, even dangerous people, but most people are good, considerate, willing to help or at least turn the other cheek. Sure, bad things happen, but also a lot of good things happen as well if we just look for them. You don’t want to be naïve, but it’s okay to trust and believe that things will or can be worked out.

How do you treat others?

This obviously follows from the first. If the world is unsafe, if others can’t be fully trusted and you are wary, you hold back, you keep your distance. Or no, your stance is more aggressive than that: it’s every man / woman for his or her self. Or there’s a middle ground of politeness and courtesy to those you don’t know, if not necessarily a friendliness. Or your values, , and outlook cause you to reach out, always give the other guy the benefit of the doubt, and, if possible, a helping hand. The world is our family.

What’s your measure of or success?

For some it is measured by the attainment of in the bigger world — achievement in a , wealth, professional reputation. For others it may be a contentment that comes from the support and love of family, ; for it may be measured by the happiness of their children. For still others happiness is not measured by outcome but by doing — being creative or doing what gives you meaning, competing against your rivals and hopefully coming out on top, or some combination of all the above.

Think of what you strive or hope for, but also what brings you happiness in the everyday.

How do you reach your measure of happiness / success?

You put your head down, stay focused on the goal, and work hard. No, you follow your instincts, your imagination, those wisps of , your . Or you succeed by helping others succeed — encouraging and supporting them in their own quest for happiness, being the best role model you can be. Or no, you reach your goals by keeping an eye on your rivals and making the most of their weaknesses.

Why do bad things happen?

They just do; they help us see and appreciate the good; there is really no bad but only what we decide to call bad; it is God’s will, God’s test for us; they are pay-backs for our wrongs. We don’t know.

What is the purpose of life, your life?

See above.

Do you have major regrets, ? How has it shaped your view of life, your image of yourself?

Regrets and guilt can certainly teach us lessons, but often their wounding overshadows and outlasts the . Think of that poor secret service agent who 40 years later is still haunted and feeling responsible for the death of John Kennedy, and still unable to himself. Regrets and guilt can cause us to stay stuck in the past, feel that we are not entitled to happiness, drastically turn our view of life and ourselves upside down.

If you were to pick one word to describe the overall tone of your life what would it be?

As you work through these questions, is there a theme? If you had a pick a song to be the soundtrack of your life, what would that song be?

In one sentence, what advice would you most want to pass onto your children, your grandchildren?

So, what have you discovered? What is the story that you consciously or unconsciously tell yourself about the of relationships, the world? How has this story shaped your expectations and defined your purpose and about your life and life itself?

One final question: Do you want to keep your story, or do you want to change it?

====== 218 ========

SPRINTING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE

Your kids likely fell in the house for the Thanksgiving holiday yearning for a break—wanting to luxuriate in the comfort of their bed for long hours, ready to savor home cooked meals, and eager for opportunities to dash out and see their from home. Who can blame them? They have likely logged about twelve weeks of classes and stomached some gross stuff in the dining hall and had their fair share of social disappointments at college. Nevertheless, most students experience a mixture of feelings with the anticipation of returning to campus. They are generally eager to regain the independence they have cultivated and to hang out with college buddies with whom they are experimenting with their new sense of self. Yet, without a doubt they are stressed about what is to come in the next few weeks---final exams and projects and trying to make it to the finish line intact.

Source: Tim Gouw/ Unsplash

As a college professor for over twenty years, I can say with great certainty that this becomes a trying time for everyone. Students as well as faculty have gotten that glorious taste of a bit of rest and relaxation, more time with family and friends and a bit more indulgence. It is hard to regain the energy for the last push of the semester which is completely necessary to finish with greater success. The Thanksgiving holiday becomes a bit of a tease—-like those tiny bags of pretzels on an airplane when you are actually starving. So, when they head back to school, students can benefit by doing the following:

====== 219 ========

AN OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK AND THE FIRST MEMORIES OF LIFE

Source: Pixabay

In June, while attending a professional conference in Toronto, I decided to take a break and go for a swim at the hotel pool. As I was signing in and picking up a towel, the pool attendant warmly greeted me. She seemed genuinely interested in how I was doing and hoped that I was enjoying my stay at the hotel. We talked for a few minutes, and I learned that Julianna was 20 years old and studying to become a masseuse. While I was swimming, several other patrons entered the pool area, and I noticed that Julianna also graciously welcomed each person with a warm smile and brief conversation.

Julianna's behavior stood out to me because she seemed to make an effort to provide a few special moments for the individuals who showed up at the pool. I wanted to know more about her, and after my swim, I asked Julianna if she would be willing to share one of her first with me. She readily agreed, and I wrote down the following. "The first thing that I remember is playing outside at recess. There were dolls on the playground that seemed to revolve around. I played on the swings a lot, and I fell off the swing that day." I asked her, "What part do you remember most in the memory?" Julianna, responded, "How I felt when I was on the swing. It was one of the happiest moments of my life at that time."

After Julianna rendered her early recollection, I said that I would try to say something about its possible meaning. I began by stating, "You have an outlook on life, and you try to make the best out of situations and often find them to be special." She nodded in agreement, "This is how I am." I added, "At the same time, your and other people in your life tease you in a friendly way about your persistent level of optimism." Julianna laughed heartily: "This happens a lot."

I then asked Julianna one more question. "How are you so optimistic given all the ups and downs that we all face in life?" She related, "I am sentimental and it is natural for me. There are a lot of soulless people, and I haven't lost my soul." At that point, it started to get busy at the counter, and I thought that it would be best if we talked more at a later point. Julianna said that she was working the next day and looked forward to seeing me again.

When I came to the swimming pool early the next day, I was told that Julianna would not be on duty until the afternoon. Unfortunately, I had a plane to catch and soon had to leave the hotel. I did not get to see her again. In reflecting on Julianna's first memory, I wondered about her statement about "the soul" and its relationship to optimism and early recollections. Intuitively, I thought that it may have something to do with maintaining a childlike wonder and enjoying what life offers in the moment. At the same time, I needed to hear directly from Julianna on a face-to-face basis about her perception of life.

We all have an opportunity to learn more from people like Julianna. Perhaps it may be the service worker we see regularly who always seems to be in a good mood. There may be a neighbor, a friend, or a relative that stands out for maintaining a positive outlook on life. In my experience, often these individuals relate early recollections that are optimistic and seem to provide an emotionally uplifting quality. Follow-up conversations can be enlightening relating to how such persons sustain a sense of hopefulness despite encountering adversities in living. We need to hear more from those who have a "natural" optimistic outlook in their early memories and in their way of being.

====== 220 ========

I DIDN'T SAY THAT! YOU MUST BE IMAGINING IT

Source: Photo by rawpixel

"Are you wearing that dress to dinner?" My friend Amy can say that with just the right tone of voice. You know the one that lets you know she is in disbelief that you would actually do such a horrible thing. But what happens if you call her on it? "Amy, you don't like my dress?" She responds, "I didn't say that." She didn't say the words, true, but she indirectly implied that my choice of attire was completely unacceptable.

There's lots of ways that "You are so wrong but I didn't say that" communication is used. Questions about something that you know they already know is one example. "Have you bought your mother's birthday gift yet?" sounds innocent enough if you just look at or listen to the words. But with the right tone and context (your wife knows you haven't bought the gift) it's actually an implied criticism. The speaker's intentions are hidden in a way they can be denied. Instead of saying, "You're mother's birthday is tomorrow and once again you haven't bothered to get a gift," asking the question gets the same message across and the speaker can claim there's no criticism intended. The speaker claims innocence and avoids responsibility for their criticism. "All I did was ask a question. What's wrong with you today?"

Implied criticism can also be found in offers of help. "I can help you with baking," said when you bring banana bread to the office, clearly implies that your banana bread is a failure. A more subtle implied criticism would be, "I always find sour cream helps banana bread stay moist." If you confront the person, it's easy for her to say, "I was only trying to help." "There are art classes available at the community center," is a thumbs down review of your latest painting. But of course the person who offers that suggestion sees herself as trying to help. Even compliments can be put downs. When Gloria tells Jim, in front of Greg her husband, that Jim is the most thoughtful spouse she knows, she's also saying that her husband is not as thoughtful. But if Greg comments, Gloria can say, "It wasn't about you, can't I compliment Jim?"

Implied criticism has advantages to the speakers. They say what they think in an indirect way, usually something critical, and at the same time can deny they intended to give the message that you heard. It's not their fault you're upset--you're over reacting or hearing something they didn't say.

How do you cope with implied criticism? If the individual regularly criticizes you in this way, you'll probably pull back and start to avoid the person. You'll lose trust because they aren't being honest about what they are communicating. For some , you may prefer to do this. At the same time, it's possible the individual isn't aware of how his communication is received and truly sees himself as trying to help. If the relationship is one you want to keep, then asking directly may be the best way to save a relationship that is important to you. "Are you saying that you don't like my banana bread?" "No, not at all, I was just giving a suggestion." "Okay, just checking because it wasn't clear." If you regularly ask the other person to clarify his meaning, you'll probably see a change. But even if you don't, you won't be as frustrated.

====== 221 ========

SAY GOODBYE: IT'S TURKEY DROP TIME

Cold weather and the holiday season are upon us, and apparently, so too are the tough relationship decisions. Should you stay or should you go? Now, it seems, is peak decision time.

Yes, we're entering prime break-up season. College students everywhere are heading home for Thanksgiving and returning to school, single. And is it only college students? Probably not. The winter and its many romantic holidays (e.g., Christmas, New Year's Eve, Valentine's Day) are on the horizon, making now a good time for unhappy people to make a change.

The Turkey Drop

The Turkey Drop is the catchy phrase that aptly captures the spike in romantic break-ups that occurs annually in late fall. Data from McCandless and Byron, who examined changes in status, corroborate the Turkey Drop. A dramatic rise in romantic break-ups seems to occur during the few weeks leading up to the Christmas holiday.1

On one hand, it seems rather heartless: initiating a break-up so close to the holidays. However, around Thanksgiving may be the first chance that freshmen have to make the break in person, rather than over text, the phone, or Skype. By late-November, the challenges that come with long-distance may have taken their toll, and new social circles may make the prospect of single-life appealing. Relationships that once felt like forever relationships, now might feel like they belonged to younger, different people.

Holiday Pressure

The Turkey Drop may also extend beyond the college years: people unhappy in their relationships might be motivated to end their relationships before the hoopla of the holiday begins. This would avoid holiday gift giving pressure, mandatory New Year's eve plans, and Valentine's Day expectations that might come with a continued relationship.

Noteworthy too is the spike in engagements that occur around the holiday season. According to Statista, nearly 20% of proposals occur in December. If a relationship isn't headed towards marriage, perhaps mid-fall is a reasonable time to end a relationship and avoid the potential pressure of engagement season.

Divorces Aren't Tied to the Turkey Drop

If you're married, your relationship is probably safe from the dreaded Turkey Drop. Despite the seasonal spike in break-ups right around Thanksgiving among couples, the story looks different for married couples. Researchers out of the University of Washington analyzed divorce filings over a fifteen year period, and discovered that a spike in filings tends to occur during March and August.

Why might divorces peak during March and August? Rather than succumbing to the Turkey Drop, the researchers speculated that couples who are already in a committed partnership may view the holidays with hope. Married couples might imagine the possibility of a return to happier times, a stitching back together existing open wounds, or the opportunity for gestures that will change the current direction of a struggling relationship. Come March, after the winter and holidays fail to meet expectations, couples may be in a position to take the final step.

The same story applies to August, but this time the focus is on family vacations. The researchers hypothesize that couples in struggling marriages might put their hope in a wonderful family summer vacation, and when it does not meet their expectations, they may make the decision to formally end their marriages.

1. The other break-up season? Late February/early March: a spring-cleaning of sorts that appears to occur right before most colleges have their spring breaks.

====== 222 ========

IS #THANKSGAYVING IN YOUR NEWS FEED?

Did you notice any posts on your newsfeed this week about ‘Gaysgiving’ ‘Friendsgiving’ or 'ThanksGAYving'? Holidays of any kind are a time when families get together, share food, fight, makeup, and generally just do what families do. For many in the LGBTQ community, however, holidays can be a difficult time of the year.

Source: Pexels.

Often they may not be welcome at their family gatherings, or, if they are, they may only be welcome so long as they don’t bring their partner, or don’t do anything to ‘out’ themselves. This puts many people in a difficult position. How do you choose between the of your family traditions and the desire to include your partner in new traditions? Luckily, queers are nothing if not and this resiliency shows up every year during the holidays when groups of queer get together to re-invent family holiday gatherings and to make sure that the magic of the holidays isn’t lost, even if a connection to one's family of origin has been. While today we may see photos of these friendly gatherings with catchy hashtags like #GaysGiving #ThanksGAYving or #FriendsGiving, the tradition extends back beyond the birth of the hashtag and is commonly referred to as having a Chosen Family.

The term is a bit of a euphemism. It shouldn’t be interpreted as meaning that a young LGBTQ person goes out and finds themselves a new mom and dad and some queer siblings. It just means that the friends they do make within the LGBTQ community often play a more important role in their lives than an average friend might for a non-LGBTQ person. When something bad happens, these would be the people you turn to first and the people who will come to your aide when needed. Chosen Families are borne out of necessity, not a choice. Most individuals would choose to have their own family fill these important roles rather than having to turn to others. However, when they do turn to others, it is a sign of the resiliency that exists among LGBTQ individuals that they are able to build such lasting and supportive bonds without the underpinnings of a biological connection.

One needs to look no further than the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic to see the role that chosen families played in the lives (and deaths) of LGBTQ individuals, particularly women and gay and bisexual men. Biological family members abandoned their sons when they found out they were HIV positive (which was often the same time that they found out that their sons were gay). Friends, lovers, ex-lovers, and even strangers from within the LGBTQ community stepped up to fill the roles that are traditionally filled by family members. They managed each other’s medical appointments, ensured that those in the hospital or hospice had visitors, that they had help getting their affairs in order, and ultimately, it was these chosen family members who planned and attended the funerals. Those who survived came out the other side of the epidemic having lost countless numbers of their ‘chosen family’ but also with an intense of the necessity of chosen family. Thus, today, we still see many groups of LGBTQ friends spending the holidays together. Even as families have become more accepting of their LGBTQ members, chosen families continue to hold a special place in the hearts of LGBTQ folk, and thus the #GaysGiving dinners continue.

One of the reasons that researchers have theorized that chosen families are so important for LGBTQ folk is because they provide a shared level of experience that often cannot be found in an LGBTQ individual’s family of origin. Unless you grew up with LGBTQ or other close family members, no matter how accepting your family is, they are still unlikely to truly be able to empathize and understand your experiences as an LGBTQ person in a world that remains heterosexist, and sometimes outright homophobic. This means that LGBTQ youth often lack a family member who can tell them what it is like to come out, or what it will be like to be bullied and harassed based on their sexual or . Thus, there’s a greater drive to fill that role and to find other LGBTQ companions who can serve as mentors or provide advice or comfort in the face of daily challenges.

Source: pexels.

Ironically, one of the barriers to cultivating a chosen family today is the growing acceptance of LGBTQ people in society. Friends and family are far less likely to outright reject LGBTQ people, making that overwhelming necessity of finding a chosen family much less salient. As a result, many may just go about their lives without developing close bonds with other LGBTQ individuals, at least not to the extent that has been seen in past generations. At the same time, many still see the benefits of a closely-knit group of LGBTQ-identified friends, so only time will tell whether #GaysGiving will remain a tradition in the LGBTQ community or whether it will fade into something the elder-queers remember fondly, but with that kind of nostalgia that appreciates the past while simultaneously celebrating the social advances that may one day render LGBTQ chosen families unnecessary.

====== 223 ========

TECHNOLOGICAL “ADVANCES” AND THE EROSION OF SOCIETY

Source: FunkyFocus / Pixabay

We tend to see novel technologies as true “advances.” This makes sense, as that’s sort of a defining feature of technology. The wheel allowed our ancestors to move large items across great distances. Controlled fire allowed our ancestors to prepare food that could be digested relatively quickly. And rocket technologies ultimately allowed us to put a man on the moon. Sure, in many ways, technology goes hand-in-hand with progress.

The evolutionary perspective on the human condition provides important perspective on the of technology. In short, the evolutionary perspective (see my brief textbook, Evolutionary Psychology 101) suggests that when thinking about any human problem, it’s useful to consider the fact that the human mind evolved not under modern conditions, but, rather, under ancestral conditions that characterized the lion’s share of human evolution.

An important facet of this thinking pertains to the fact that agriculture and “civilization” are relatively recent, having only been developed in the past 10,000 years. Prior to this point, all human beings lived in small nomadic bands. They only ate natural foods. They necessarily exercised a lot. And their lives were, of course, without iPhones and the internet. Our evolved psychology was shaped to match those pre-agrarian conditions.

As is true with any organism, when humans experience dramatic cases of “evolutionary mismatch” (see Giphart & Van Vugt, 2018), we often run into problems. For the same reason that a palm tree will not do well in my front yard in upstate New York, humans often don’t do well in modern conditions─the conditions don’t match the conditions that the organism evolved to experience. Palm trees evolved adaptations to match relatively warm climates. Humans evolved adaptations to match small-scale societies where nature, natural foods, and exercise were abundant parts of the day-to-day experience.

From the evolutionary perspective, then, any new technology should be considered in terms of this bigger-picture evolutionary context. It is highly plausible that some technology may only provide short-term benefits to individuals (because is makes us feel good) while, inadvertently, having long-term adverse consequences (such as leading to long-term social or physical problems). We need to be wary of this kind of situation, as businesses are in it for profit, and that goes along with creating products that have short-term gain.

Modern Technologies as Supernormal Stimuli

From an evolutionary perspective, a “supernormal stimulus” is an exaggerated version of some stimulus that an organism evolved to respond to because such a response had adaptive value during the evolutionary history of that organism. A famous example comes from renowned behavioral scientist, Niko Tinbergen (1953) who studied the tendency for male stickleback fish to show an aggressive response to the red coloration of other male stickleback fishes. Tinbergen created supernormal versions of the red stimulus, simply creating fake fish that had larger and more saturated red sections on their exterior. Tinbergen found essentially that the fish showed a “the more red the more behavior” effect. That is, the supernormal stimuli with the higher proportion of red led to more consistent and stronger aggressive responses.

The lesson is this: Evolved behavioral responses can be hijacked by technology. If the fish evolved to attack “red,” then anyone can make a “super-red” stimulus that leads to an even strong behavioral response.

It turns out that humans are, actually, very similar to male stickleback fish in this broader regard. Technologies that hijack our evolved tendencies are all around you right now. The food industry has figured out the flavors that our ancestors evolved to like and has exaggerated them in tasty treats. The computer gaming industry has figured out what kinds of experiences activate our ’s pleasure centers and has provided supernormal stimuli that represent extreme versions of these stimuli. These things feel good in the moment because that’s exactly how these technologies work: They exploit our evolved psychology─not for our own long-term benefit, but, rather, for corporate profit. McDonald’s really doesn’t care if their milkshakes are contributing significantly to the modern crisis in the United States. They care about their bottom line.

Below are five examples of modern technologies that might be thought of from this evolutionary perspective. Several of these technologies hijack our evolved psychology, for the benefit of corporate profit. Often to the detriment of our own long-term health.

Five Technological “Advances” that May Be Driving Us Down a Bad Path

1. Processed food

Recent research on the proportion of processed foods eaten by Americans has led to outrageous conclusions (see Guitar, 2017). More than 60% of the food that we eat is processed. This statistic is hugely out of whack with the fact that before the advent of agriculture, during the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, all food that was eaten was natural by definition. Under ancestral conditions in the African savanna, where we can all trace our ancestors, drought and famine were common. Under such conditions, preferences for foods that are high in fat and sugar were adaptive, so that ancestral humans could get some fat on their bones to try to survive through the next famine. Today, those same food preferences, which have not had time to evolve out of us, often prove fatal, leading to such adverse health outcomes as Type-II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

2.

As is true with any sexually reproducing species, humans evolved a variety of mating-relevant adaptations including various preferences in mates (see Geher & Kaufman, 2013). Pornography provides a clear example of supernormal stimuli. Men evolved to be attracted to certain qualities in the female body because such led to increases in sexual that ultimately facilitated reproductive success. The porn industry takes these stimuli and ramps them up a notch. Or 100.

While the topic of whether pornography is truly harmful for people or for society is in the midst of hot academic debate, several published studies have found that is a real in terms of our brain’s physiology (see Banca et al., 2016). Further, pornography use seems to be associated with adverse relationship outcomes such as (with those showing higher porn use being more likely to have relationships that end in divorce; Perry & Davis, 2017). From a supernormal stimulus perspective, these outcomes are not surprising.

3. Video Games

Video games represent supernormal stimuli sine qua non. Everything about them takes some facet of our evolved psychology and gives us an overdose of it. We evolved to be task-oriented, because people who were task-oriented got stuff done and were relatively likely to survive and ultimately reproduce as a result. If you were around in the 1980s like I was, you know that Pac Man and Asteroids were all about completing the task. One more game! One more level! I know I can get to the next level, I just know it!

Modern video games such as Fortnite, are, of course, amped up compared to old Pac Man. They often include a social component. They include high risk. They include human coalitions. They sometimes have sexy characters. They have elements that focus on social status. And so forth. Why are our kids so darned addicted to these stupid video games? Because these videogames are hijacking their evolved psychological adaptations.

4. iPhones

Consider yourself lucky if you are truly not addicted to your smartphone. In a recent CNN poll of teens in the US, more than 50% admitted to being addicted to their phones. And we all well know that the other 50% were ! I have to say that I am checking my phone way more than I wish I were these days. These things are so addictive! And tells us why.

As is the case with video games, smartphones have so many things that we evolved to focus on right at our fingertips. 24/7. ? Relationships? Your social status? Your family? Things that make you happy? Things that make you excited? Things that make you surprised? Risky behaviors? We have special evolved psychology regarding all these things. And with smartphones, exaggerated information on all of these is now more accessible than.

5. Your couch

How many hours a week do you think an average American spends sitting on the couch? Many of us have more than one couch in the house. Hey, we try to make our houses comfortable. The word “home,” in fact, is all about the comfort that we experience in our houses. I love my house, so I’m not one to judge. But, under ancestral conditions, before the advent of agriculture and “civilization,” people were not sitting around on their couches. Not by any means!

For the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, exercise was not a choice. Sitting around on the couch all day watching an Impractical Jokers marathon, drinking Pepsie and Sam Adams, and eating chips was not a possibility. Estimates of ancestral exercise patterns, in fact, suggest that traveling more than 20 miles in a day was a regular occurrence (see Platek et al., 2011). Further, as is true with all animals, we evolved to take advantage of opportunities to not expend energy. Under ancestral conditions, chilling out whenever possible and saving up energy for future physical activity was a good idea. In today’s world, where we can easily go a full day that includes walking less than two miles and sitting on comfortable chairs and couches for 10 or so hours, this tendency to rest up whenever the opportunity presents itself is incredibly unhealthy. We’ve made our environments too comfortable! And all the technologies that we have to increase our comfort, including electronic garage doors so that we don’t have to get of our cars, dog doors so that we don’t have to get up to walk the dog, reclining chairs, Netflix, couches that cost thousands of dollars, etc., work against that fact that our bodies evolved to move a lot every single day.

Bottom Line

Beware of technology. Technological “advances” often present some short-term benefit with an unspecified (and often invisible) long-term cost. Companies that make technology are motivated to get people to buy their stuff. They are not too motivated to worry much about potential long-term adverse consequences associated with their products.

The evolutionary framework changes the playing field when it comes to thinking about technology. We need to think about the long-term human consequences of technology. And we also need to ask the question of what evolved psychological adaptation the technology is tapping into. Further, we need to ask whether the technology is somehow exploiting our evolved psychology for corporate gain. There’s something to think about when you go out holiday shopping.

====== 224 ========

FORGET CO-PARENTING WITH A NARCISSIST, ROUND 3

Source: Caroline Hernandez/unsplash

As the writer of Forget Co-Parenting With a Narcissist: Do This Instead, and its Round 2 counterpart, I spend a good amount of time helping weary co-parents navigate high-conflict and contentious plans. As awful as it is to deal with the toxic atmosphere of family court, it is possible to implement emotionally stable habits so you can distance yourself from the drama.

Here are 10 ways to do just that.

1. Emotionally stable co-parents accept that their ex is not going to change and they stop wishing that this person one day wakes up and sees the impact of their frivolous, mean-spirited and sociopathic behaviors. Instead, emotionally stable co-parents recognize they chose a partner who may fit the diagnostic criteria for , borderline disorder or . They educate themselves on these mental conditions to better understand the characterological manifestations.

2. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t complain about their ex. This is not to say they don’t have reason to feel outrage or experience random thoughts of skipping town with the kids, but they accept the game for what it is. They recognize that as adults, we are willing participants in . When we complain, other people may be wondering, ‘Hmmm…didn’t you see the signs when you where ?’ As a psychotherapist, I assure you, there are always signs. I can also confirm, no kid on the couch ever says, “Thank goodness for all the badmouthing my parents did in front of me—that really helped me move forward and learn the basics of healthy relationships.”

3. Emotionally stable co-parents use wisely. They recognize they need to heal first in order to help their kids recover. They grow in their ability to guide their children once they’ve processed why they chose their co-parent in the first place. As my clinical supervisor used to say, “All issues with children are issues in the parent. The connection is not always linear.”

4. Emotionally stable co-parents do not waste time on co-parenting forums because most are not helpful, and more often, used as a platform for emotional vomiting and out-catastrophizing other people’s experiences. Rather, they spend their time and energy on hiring professionals. Emotionally stable co-parents do not write dramatic, autobiographical email or post like-minded commentary, nor do they leave lengthy phone messages expecting free advice. They respect the ethical and legal restrictions of mental health and legal professionals for responding to non-clients.

5. Emotionally stable co-parents recognize that the job of a single parent is a lot easier when kids are held accountable for their behaviors. All children need discipline and guidance. Some may argue that children of divorce need more stability, consistency and accountability due to the erratic and conflicting practices from the other side.

6. Emotionally stable co-parents speak to their kids about divorce in an honest and age-appropriate manner. They recognize that while they may not have the answer to “Why does daddy’s new friend over his house?,” they refrain from angry knee-jerk reactions. When stumped, they reach for books such as Growing Up With Divorce by Neil Kalter, or Divorce Poison by Richard Warshak.

7. Emotionally stable parents accept the tall order known as “bad parenting.” This may look like feeding him donuts and chocolate milk for breakfast, to off all her hair one weekend just because, or criticizing you for grounding him when he told the football coach to "Go to hell." Because what’s the alternative? Spend $300 in attorney fees to hear that your issue isn’t ‘bad enough’ to file a motion in court?

8. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t blame judges, attorneys, mediators, and therapists for their situation. This is not to say the family court system isn’t largely broken, and in need of reform. But it is what it is, and none of its players are directly at fault when your ex doesn’t comply with the court order. Mentally stable co-parents view court as a place to be avoided for all non-emergency matters.

9. Emotionally stable co-parents teach their kids to be independent thinkers by inspiring them to question events that don’t make sense and to listen to their gut. If their co-parent tells them not to trust someone, they are encouraged to look for an alternative explanation.

10. Emotionally stable co-parents rise above the chaos and focus on nurturing their child’s mental and emotional well-being. They go to therapy, work their calm plan, relaxation routine and mindfulness practices daily so they can parent with love, warmth, safety and presence.

Even when the other parent does the opposite.

To learn more about co-parenting strategies, click here for information about my online course, Co-Parenting Without Chaos.

Copyright 2018 Linda Esposito, LCSW. All Rights Reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the author.

====== 225 ========

IT'S HOW YOU DO IT THAT MATTERS FOR RELATIONAL SATISFACTION

Nearly everyone understands the importance of being grateful. And during this time of year there tends to be a marked emphasis on the positive impact that has on our lives. This focus is especially powerful since being grateful for our blessings – like our , family, and significant other or spouse – is associated with greater individual well-being.

And gratitude may be one of the most important positive emotions to cultivate for thriving as well, according to research.

However, feeling grateful alone is not enough for relational satisfaction. It’s acting upon these feelings that matter. We need to express our gratitude to our partner. After all, our partner is not a mind reader. We need to tell them how we feel about them.

Sadly, many people do not feel that their partners appreciate them. Many relationships fall apart not due to one big problem but rather a lot of little things that add up over time. Perhaps repeatedly feeling overlooked, unacknowledged, or taken advantage of, for example.

We need to make it a habit to express our appreciation to our partner.

In our book, Happy Together: Using the Science of to Build Love That Lasts, we recount the story of “Tonya”and “Marco,” whose collapsed after twenty-plus years of marriage. As we mentioned in a previous post, Tonya did not feel appreciated by Marco. She could only recall two times in their entire marriage where Marco expressed his appreciation for her. She said he rarely expressed his gratitude to her which caused her to wither over the years. Eventually, she left, to the utter surprise of Marco who didn’t understand what he did. It’s actually what he didn’t do that she felt caused their relationship to unravel.

We can’t overemphasize the importance of expressing gratitude to our loved ones for relational satisfaction and longevity. In fact, expressing gratitude has been found to be important for both partners, the giver and the receiver. In one study, couples who expressed gratitude well to one another were as half as likely to break up six months later. Gratitude was found to serve as an emotional glue in that it makes a partner feel “cared for, understood, and validated.”

Source: Pexels

However, for optimal relationship satisfaction, it’s not just if you do it, but how you do it that matters, according to research.

Gratitude can serve as a relational booster shot if the gratitude is expressed well, in that it is “other” focused, rather than “self” focused. In other words, focusing on praising your partner and his or her qualities and actions rather than the benefit to yourself.

For example, if your partner has been especially helpful around the house lately or roasted and carved the holiday turkey, you might automatically react by saying, “Thank you. You really helped me out.” Or “Yummy! You know how much I love turkey.”

While these remarks aren’t bad, of course – after all, you are acknowledging your partner and could be worse off by not saying anything at all – you could do much better by shifting the focus from yourself to your partner. Instead, try responding with something like:

"Thank you. I really appreciate your thoughtfulness in tidying up our home. It’s this thoughtfulness that I see in you time and time again that makes you such a special person.”

“I really appreciate your to detail and the care you took in making the turkey. Your patience is remarkable! Whether working with your students or interacting with our son, these qualities are such a beautiful part of who you are.”

So think of a recent time you thanked a loved one. Reflect for a moment on your expression of gratitude. Next, ask yourself these two questions:

Did you focus on the other person, or the self?

If you focused on the self, how could you reframe that?

Giving good gratitude is a skill that can be learned. Expressing it well and practicing it regularly will help boost your individual and relational .

====== 226 ========

SUZIE PILEGGI PAWELSKI, MAPP AND JAMES PAWELSKI, PH.D.

Suzann (“Suzie”) Pileggi Pawelski, MAPP, is a freelance writer and well-being consultant specializing in the science of happiness and its effects on relationships and health. Her 2010 Scientific American Mind cover story, “The Happy Couple” was the catalyst for the book Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love that Lasts that she co-wrote with her husband, James. Together, they give Romance and Research (TM) workshops around the world. She is a contributing editor for Live Happy and writes the “Science of Well-being” column for the national magazine. As a columnist for the Newsletter of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), she profiled many of the field’s leading scientists and featured their groundbreaking research in the publication. Previously, she directed award-winning media relations campaigns in New York City for Fortune 500 clients. Earlier in her career, she worked in publicity at Radio City Music Hall and as an associate producer for The Joan Rivers Show, where she featured leading health and medical authors on the Emmy Award-winning program. She has a Master of Applied Positive Psychology degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

James Pawelski, Ph.D., is the Director of Education and a Senior Scholar in the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, where he co-founded the Master of Applied Positive Psychology Program with Martin Seligman. He is a recipient of Penn’s Liberal and Professional Studies Award for Distinguished Teaching in Professional Graduate Programs. The Founding Executive Director of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), and a member of the Advisory Board of the International Positive Education Network (IPEN), he is currently leading a three-year, multi-million-dollar grant investigating connections between the science of well-being and the arts and humanities. Having earned a Ph.D. in philosophy, he is the author of The Dynamic Individualism of William James, and co-editor of The Eudaimonic Turn: Well-Being in Literary Studies and On Human Flourishing: A Poetry Anthology. An international keynote speaker, he has presented in more than 20 countries on six continents, including Romance and Research (TM) workshops with his wife, Suzie. He is a recipient of the Practice Excellence Award from the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the Humanitarian Innovation Award for the Humanities, Arts, and Culture from the Humanities Innovation Forum at the United Nations. He is frequently featured in the media, including the New York Times, U.S. News and World Report, Philadelphia Inquirer, and The Today Show.

====== 227 ========

HOW MUCH SLEEP DO SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN NEED?

Source: Pixabay Free Images

The question of how much children need is one that is not easy to answer. Professional organizations have recommended guidelines which include ranges for different age groups. For example, the National Sleep Foundation suggests that school-age children 6-to-13 years old should get 9-to-11 hours of sleep each night. But the basis for establishing those guidelines is unclear. It is a more difficult question to answer than one might expect, and it is similar to asking how much exercise children need or what nutritional needs they have. Complicating the question is that individual differences exist for children at any one age.

Children of all ages, but especially adolescents, seem to be getting less sleep than they need. The movement to have middle and high school start times later is based on the assumption that doing so will afford adolescents the opportunity to get more morning sleep, and also that they will actually get more sleep by not staying up even later at night.

Most school districts where later start times for teens have been considered or implemented, have set earlier start times for elementary school children, with the assumption that their sleep needs will not be compromised. With only a few exceptions, that assumption has received very little study.

One method for estimating how much sleep a child needs is to observe how much they sleep when there are no or few constraints on when they go to bed and wake up. Since the school week schedule dictates that wake times are around the same time each day, are responsible for making sure their children go to bed early enough to get sufficient sleep. But during school breaks, especially during summer months when most schools are not in session, bedtimes and wake times can be more flexible. These breaks create opportunities to determine how much sleep children might need.

A paper just published in the journal Sleep by a of researchers at the University of South Carolina reports a study that includes measurements of sleep during two school breaks – one of a week duration, and one of three weeks duration which were then compared to how much they slept when school was in session. Children (N=154) were between 5 and 9 years old (mean = 7). Sleep was measured objectively using Fitbits.

For both the one- and three-week breaks, children showed increased sleep time and later wake times. On a one-week break they slept 38 minutes more and woke up 35 minutes later than when school was in session. During the three-week break they slept 25 minutes more and woke up 46 minutes later. When school was in session, their sleep far less than even the lower end of the recommended range (7 hours, 18 minutes vs. 9 hours). They were getting more sleep during the one week break (8 hours, 12 minutes) and the three week break (7 hours, 48 minutes), but those durations were still short of 9 hours. Longer sleep times during breaks is a good estimate of how much sleep children of this age need. "Natural" wake times of 35-46 minutes later than when school is in session suggests that starting school an hour later — no earlier than 8:30 as is being recommended by professional organizations — is probably a good idea for all children, not just adolescents.

====== 228 ========

TWO LEADER BEHAVIORS THAT REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE

One of the most consistent research findings of the past century suggests that there are two types of leader behaviors that are associated with effective : Task-focused and relationship-focused behaviors.

Just after World War II leadership researchers from Ohio State University and the University of Michigan discovered two types of leader behaviors that were consistently related to effective leadership.

The first were task-focused behaviors. These are behaviors that put structure into the work setting – creating operating procedures, focusing on measuring outcomes, making important decisions, and the like.

The second category of effective leader behaviors focuses on the followers and the relationship between leaders and followers. These include showing concern for followers’ feelings and needs, showing appreciation, giving them a voice in , and bolstering their .

Research over the next 70 years has consistently shown that these two broad categories of leader behaviors are important. So, what is the implication for leaders and their effectiveness?

Leaders should do a self-assessment and note how often their behaviors focus primarily on the task and the incidence of their relationship-oriented behaviors. Research by Fred Fiedler and others suggests that leaders may prefer one over the other – becoming almost preoccupied with getting the task done, or alternatively, with building the leader-follower relationship. For example, if a leader’s self-assessment suggests that he or she is over-emphasizing task-oriented behaviors, then balance may be needed by making sure to also focus on the with members. Over-focusing on relationships can lead to a lack of structure with can reduce the team’s efficiency and output.

Sometimes, simple research results (and those that seem to be almost common-sense) are important because they give us insight into our patterns of behavior in the . The best leaders realize that they can always improve. They reflect on what they are doing well, and on their shortcomings and they strive to constantly get better.

Follow me at twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 229 ========

7 SIGNS OF A PASSIVE-AGGRESSIVE NARCISSIST

Source: Edw/Shutterstock

“Whenever my husband feels he isn’t being catered to, he would make everything difficult, while saying there’s nothing’s wrong.” ―Anonymous

“My colleague’s favorite tactic when she doesn’t get her way is to take twice as long to get anything done.” ―Anonymous

“My partner deals with our relationship issues through avoidance, neglect, and blame.”―Anonymous

The Mayo Clinic research group defines as “a mental disorder in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance and a deep need for admiration. Those with narcissistic disorder believe that they're superior to others and have little regard for other people's feelings. But behind this mask of ultra- lies a fragile , vulnerable to the slightest criticism.”

can be defined as , hostility, and/or learned helplessness in disguise, expressed in covert ways to "even the score" and gain an underhanded advantage.

While many narcissists come across as openly grandiose and outwardly intrusive, some narcissists utilize passive-aggressive tactics as a primary way of fulfilling their selfish needs, or to exact “ ” onto those who fail to cater to their whims.

It’s important to note that not all passive-aggressive individuals are narcissistic. What characterizes the passive-aggressive narcissist is their barely disguised sense of superiority, conceit, and entitlement. They are inclined to become covertly hostile when they don’t get their way, no matter how unreasonable. If the world doesn’t revolve around them (like they think they deserve), they will devise many subversive schemes to make the lives of those around them miserable.

How do you know when you might be dealing with a passive-aggressive narcissist? Below are seven telltale signs, with references from my books, How to Successfully Handle Narcissists and How to Successfully Handle Passive-Aggressive People. When a passive-aggressive narcissist doesn’t get his or her way, he is likely to instigate one or more of the following offenses, while remaining unaware of (or unconcerned with) how their behavior impacts others.

1. Disguised Verbal Hostility

Examples: Negative . Negative orientation. Habitual criticism of ideas, conditions, and expectations. Addressing an adult like a child. Invalidation of others’ experiences and feelings.

Possible Intention(s): Putting others down to feel dominant and superior. Causing others to feel inadequate and insecure to relieve one’s own sense of deficiency. Seeking a false sense of importance by being persistently critical. Consciously or unconsciously spreading one’s own unhappiness (misery loves company). Competing for power and control in a relationship.

2. Disguised Hostile

Examples: Sarcasm. Veiled hostile joking — often followed by "just kidding." Repetitive teasing. Subtle “digs” at one’s appearance, , socio-cultural background, credentials, behavior, decisions, social relations, etc.

Possible Intention(s): Express hidden anger, disapproval, or rejection towards an individual. Disdain towards an individual for what she or he represents. Using humor as a weapon in an attempt to marginalize another's humanity, dignity, and credibility.

3. Disguised Relational Hostility

Examples: The silent treatment. The invisible treatment. Social exclusion. Neglect. Sullen resentment. Indirectly hurting something or someone of importance to the targeted person.

Possible Intention(s): Express anger or resentment. Covert Punishment. Purposely creating a negative and disconcerting . Putting the targeted recipient off balance. Attempting to create insecurity.

4. Blaming

“It’s your fault that I forgot because you didn’t remind me.” ―Anonymous

Examples: Blaming others for one’s own irresponsibility, negligence, or failures. Blaming others for one’s own unwillingness to follow reasonable rules, social norms, or professional conduct.

Possible Intention(s): Distortion and of the truth. Avoidance of responsibility. Manipulate facts of the issue. Distort perception for easier and control. -baiting. . Misdirection to take focus off of the real issue.

5. Stalling

Examples: . Forgetting. Stonewalling. Withholding resources or information. Unnecessary bureaucracy and red tape. Excuse making. Broken agreements. Lack of follow through.

Possible Intention(s): Avoiding responsibility, duty, and obligations. Maintaining power and control by imposing many hoops to jump through. Passive competitiveness making life more difficult for others. Purposely blocking others’ success. of others’ success.

6. Covert Resistance

Examples: Stubbornness. Rigidity. Inefficiency, complication, incompletion, or ruination of task.

Possible Intentions(s): Power struggle. Passive combativeness. “Victory” is gained from the frustrated efforts and negative emotions of the recipient.

7. Underhanded Sabotage

Examples: Purposely undermine tasks, projects, activities, deadlines or agreements. Causing harm or loss materially. Overspending. Wrecking positive chemistry interpersonally, socially or professionally. Deliberate disclosure of harmful information. Deliberate obstruction of communication and endeavors.

Possible Intention(s): Covertly express anger, hostility, and resentment towards an individual, group, or organization. Channeling unspoken gripe or unresolved past issues. Personal, social, or professional jealousy. Subtly administering punishment or revenge.

Can a passive-aggressive narcissist change for the better? Perhaps. But only if he or she is highly aware, and willing to go through the courageous process of self-discovery. For passive-aggressive narcissists no longer willing to play the charade at the cost of genuine and credibility, there are ways to liberate from falsehood, and progressively move toward one’s Higher Self. For those who live or work with passive-aggressive narcissists, perceptive awareness and communication are musts to establishing healthy and mutually-respectful relationships. See references below.

© 2018 by Preston C. Ni. All rights reserved worldwide. Copyright violation may subject the violator to legal prosecution.

====== 230 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY CANADA

A few days ago Italian dog trainer Debora Segna contacted me about a posting by veterinarian and philosopher Dr. Roberto Marchesini in which he wrote, “If my dog would growl at me during an interaction, not a playful growl during a playing interaction, but a warning and threatening growl, I would question the relationship I have built. For me it wouldn't be a simple demand, but rather my failure. Obviously I am not talking about adopted adult dogs, with several problems you need to work on. In my life I have had countless dogs and the ones I had since when they were puppies never growled at me. The ones I get from shelters sometimes did in the first times but eventually gave up. I see a tendency to underestimate a behaviour that is always a warning light of a dysfunctional relationship.” (Translated by Fabrizio Giammatteo.) So, according to Dr. Marchesini, growling outside of play is unacceptable in interactions between a dog and their human companion. (See Note 1 for the original Italian post. This essay titled PERCHÉ I CANI RINGHIANO is available in Italian.)

Growling is a complex behavior/vocalization and I don't see it as indicating a failed or dysfunctional relationship. Dogs are vocal animals, and most of us have heard a variety of canine sounds, from growls to barks, whines, and whimpers. But how good are we at determining the emotional state of a dog when she or he is growling? A new and very important study by Hungarian researchers T. Faragó, N. Takács, Á. Miklósi, and P. Pongrácz called "Dog growls express various contextual and affective content for human listeners" shows we're pretty good at assigning context and emotional state to different growls, and that women are better than men at doing so. For a discussion of this important study see "Dogs Growl Honestly and Women Understand Better Than Men."

I can well understand why a dog would growl or otherwise tell a human that they don't like something that they are doing or are otherwise uncomfortable. Simply put, they're annoyed. A growl does not always mean that a dog will attack a human or necessarily do anything more than vocalize what they're feeling. It is a way for them to say something like "Back off, this is my ball or my food and I don't want to share it with you" or "I'm and I would appreciate it if you wouldn't disturb me." In fact, we should welcome this sort of response so that we know that there are clear boundaries about what the dog would like you to do.

When a dog is vocalizing, we also need to pay careful to their -- where their tail and ears are as well as their posture or gait, for example, because dogs often communicate using what ethologists call "composite signals" that contain information from different sensory modalities. Composite signals also may contain more information than signals in a single sensory modality. (See "Do Dogs Recognize 'Dog' and What They're Feeling From Afar?" and Unleashing Your Dog: A Field Guide to Giving Your Canine Companion the Best Life Possible.)

I don't agree when Dr. Marchesini writes that growling is "always a warning light of a dysfunctional relationship.” (My emphasis) In many ways, growling is indicative of an on-going relationship in which a dog is telling a human what they want and need and a mutual and respectful relationship requires reciprocal and respect. This is not to say that growling is necessarily welcomed, but rather to say that growling can be a nuanced signal and communicate subtle messages that are all part of a healthy relationship.

When growling is part of a composite signal, it can be more difficult to assess what a dog is trying to communicate. For example, when growling takes place during playful tug-of-war and a dog is vocalizing and expressing other behavior patterns, it's not necessarily because two dogs or a dog and a human are competing with one another. (See "What's Happening When Dogs Play Tug-of-War? Dog Park Chatter.") They can just be having fun. Concerning tug-of-war, in her book called Play with Your Dog, dog trainer Pat Miller wrote, “Tug to your hearts’ content,” and don't worry if your dog growls. It's all “part of the game,” and if the dog's other behaviors are appropriate, “let him growl his heart out!” I agree, and I also feel the same when a person engages in rough-and-tumble play with a dog and the human is sure that the dog enjoys it and that it remains a playful interaction. Getting down and dirty with a dog is an incredibly special time filled with frivolity and unbounded joy as long as it's on the dog's terms. (See "Get Down and Dirty With Your Dog: Bow, Hug, and Tug.")

It's essential for people to learn to speak Dog

It's essential for people to become fluent in dog -- dog literate -- so that they can understand what a dog is communicating when they perform a specific behavior patterns or utter a particular sound. As I emphasize in Canine Confidential: Why Dogs Do What They Do (to be published in Italian in early 2019 with the title Nella mente e nel cuore dei cani: Vita emotiva e comportamento del vostro migliore amico), if humans are good at understanding what dogs are saying and feeling when they're growling, it could help us better understand what they're doing or likely to do in a given situation. As University of Sussex (UK) animal communication expert Holly Root-Gutteridge notes in her summary of the above study by the Hungarian researchers, "Learning about these differences may help in reducing dog aggression towards humans, as well as improving dogs’ behavior, as we understand better when a threat is real versus playful.”

When a dog growls, it's a good time to reassess the dog <--> human relationship

"My Labrador growls when she runs out of words. She is not mean, or threatening." (email to me in response to this essay) "My Barney always growled playing tug-of-war, and also when he's down sleeping and I give him a kiss, he gives me a light growl to say, leave me alone and let me sleep!" (email to me in response to this essay)

When a dog growls, it's a good time to reassess the relationship a person has with their dog(s) and to come to an understanding of why the dog growls in certain situations. It's surely not the time to punish a dog for "something they should never do" or for "something their human doesn't like" because often it's the only way a dog can set boundaries. I'm not saying that Dr. Marchesini suggests that dogs should be punished for growling outside of play (or when they growl during play, something I've witnessed), but rather, I'm suggesting that when a dog growls outside of play there's likely a very good reason they're doing this and it's time for a human to figure out why and to come up with a solution that reduces growling to a bare minimum and hopefully gets rid of it altogether. There's also a good lesson here for a dog to inform a human about what they like and dislike and for the human to let other people also know this.

One of the dogs I rescued years ago growled when another dog or a person, including myself, came near him when he was eating or playing with food. I was able to teach him not to growl on most occasions especially when I was the human intruding on "his food," and his growls became less intense and, on occasion, almost inaudible. I also came to realize that most likely, because of how he was treated (or mistreated) when he was young and on his own and had to find and defend food before he went to the local humane society and I brought him home, growling was his way of saying "Please leave me alone" or "This is my food and I need it." He never did anything more than growl, and I would tell other people to leave him alone when he was around food. That worked very well -- there never was any aggression and all he did was growl a few times and then stop -- and other dogs learned very rapidly also to leave him alone when he was around his food. We did not have a failed relationship, but rather a very deep and enduring for many years. Another dog I rescued didn't like people to touch his front feet, so, once again, I honored that and told other people not to try to touch his front feet. There never was a problem, even if he growled to show how he felt about it. I've heard numerous similar stories from many people about the situations in which their otherwise friendly dog would occasionally growl and there was no problem at all.

Decoding what dogs are saying and feeling—accurately reading their moods—is necessary if we're to live harmoniously together. It's also essential so that dog <-> -dog and dog-<--> human encounters will be as amiable as they can be. It also is essential that we view each and every dog as the individual they are; no two dogs are the same and there is no being called "the dog." (See "Let's Give Dogs a Break by Distinguishing Myths From Facts" and links therein.) Dogs, even young siblings, show incredible individual variation and explanations of behavior patterns that might work for one, two, or even 10 dogs, but might not work for many others. One of the most exciting aspects of studying dogs centers on their marked differences in behavior, personalities, and how they adjust to living in a human-dominated world. And, it's their individual variability and differences in the varying situations in which they're studied that's often responsible for differences in the results from experiments that focus on similar questions.

I very much appreciate what Dr. Marchesini wrote because it is a good catalyst for beginning much needed discussions of growling, other types of dog behavior, and dog <--> human interactions. However, once again, it's important to that growling is not always a threat and we need to study in detail the context in which it's performed, what else the dog is doing -- for example, is growling part of a composite signal -- and the individuals who are involved.

The more we understand dog behavior the better it will be for the dogs themselves, other dogs, and humans -- a win-win for all. All we have to do is pay careful attention to what dogs are telling us. It's really a lot of fun to become dog literate and to get to know the amazing beings with whom we share our homes and our hearts. I look forward to writing about the latest research and ideas about dog behavior and dog <--> human interactions in future essays.

Note 1: Dr. Roberto Marchesini's original Facebook post:

“Se il mio cane mi ringhiasse in una qualche interazione con lui, che non fosse il ringhio scherzoso del gioco ma un ringhio di avvertimento minaccioso, mi porrei delle domande sul rapporto che ho costruito. Non lo vedrei come una semplice rivendicazione ma come un mio fallimento. Ovvio, non parlo di cani adottati già adulti e con mille problemi, dove occorre lavorare. Ma nella mia vita ho avuto tantissimi cani e quelli tirati su fin da cuccioli non mi hanno mai ringhiato. Quelli presi dal canile magari i primi tempi lo hanno fatto, ma poi hanno smesso. Vedo che c’è in giro la tendenza a sottovalutare un comportamento che viceversa è sempre una spia di un disagio di relazione.” (Translated by Fabrizio Giammatteo.)

====== 231 ========

SCHIZOPHRENIA AND HALLUCINATIONS

Source: Pixabay

I was sitting on a park bench on my former university campus on January 28, 2006 when my hallucinations began. I began to hear a chorus of children’s voices very far away. They told me I was a “homeless hoodlum” a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times, again and again in my mind. It was like a painful stimulus.

Then the voices changed, and complimented me on achieving a perfect score on my SAT college entrance exam. It is true that during high school I had scored high marks, but in reality, I had fallen short of perfect. They told me that I was fluent in Chinese, but in reality, I had only an elementary proficiency.

Then the voices began to confirm my delusions. They spoke about my future husband who they said was handsome, wealthy, powerful, and eagerly waiting to meet me. They said I would meet him after my required period of homelessness had miraculously ended, which they affirmed it would.

I expected that one night an airplane might land near the churchyard where I was every night, pick me up, and take me to another city or perhaps another country. I would begin a new life as the next Mother Teresa, and the wife of the man of my .

In my mind, the voices of a little boy and a little girl who were part of the choir I was hearing became more distinct. Months later, I would begin to hear the voice of my future husband, assuring me that he was coming soon.

In late January 2006 after the voices initially began I was taking a shower at a friend’s house. Suddenly I heard three men making rude and insulting comments. I knew they could see me because of their specific remarks. I stepped out of the shower to see the three men through the bathroom window and realized there was no window. I looked for a sunroof, but there was none. After a few minutes I realized no one could see me and there were no men.

I lived in a world of delusions and hallucinations which became more severe in the following weeks and months. One day, I saw the name of the college library where I spent much of my time had been changed by one letter. Weeks later, I looked into a mirror and saw an alarming version of my face morphed together with the cartoon character Lisa Simpson.

When I tried to read books, I noticed that words were underlined once, twice or three times. I found this incredibly distracting. I remember picking up other books only to find the same bizarre and unpredictable patterns of underlining. In about two months’ time I no longer knew what day it was. I could no longer check the date on a newspaper without hallucinating.

On a Wednesday night in 2006 I believed it was one week before Thanksgiving. However, during a conversation I discovered that the holiday would be the next day. I had become disoriented and detached from reality.

Through all of this, I strongly resolved to never mention the voices and the imaginary images I saw with any other person. I told myself that everyone else refrained from speaking about the things they saw and heard so I would too. I convinced myself that hallucinations were normal and common.

Eventually I was picked up by police for screaming back at the voices and transported to a ward, but I firmly believed I was not mentally ill. My strong resolve to keep my experiences a secret remained unchanged. Even though I clung to my belief that I was not hearing voices, I was diagnosed as totally and permanently disabled due to schizophrenia. That was it. It seemed my life was done.

Fortunately, today, there is even hope for people with the most severe and treatment resistant forms of schizophrenia. Initially, during my recovery experience, I endured twelve months of uncomfortable side effects trying many medications which offered me little relief from my symptoms. It can be challenging to find just the right to effectively address the specific needs of each individual, but it is crucial to not give up trying.

After twelve months, my new doctor prescribed an underutilized medication. Over time, my hallucinations disappeared, and I regained a quiet mind. As my recovery progressed I was able to return to college. Two years later I earned my degree in molecular biology and graduated with honors.

I would encourage my readers to never give up on any person, even if they have an experience like mine, resulting from a severe form of mental illness. Today, there is more hope than ever before thanks to newer treatments and medications.

In 2018, I am celebrating ten years in full recovery from severe schizophrenia.

====== 232 ========

WILDFIRES, HURRICANES, FLOODS, MUDSLIDES... TESTS OF FAITH?

“When you are dealing with questions too large for you [and] which, nevertheless, will not leave you alone, you are obliged to house them somewhere – and an old wall helps.”

-- from Archibald MacLeish, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, in the Foreword to the published version of his verse play J.B.

To grapple with those large questions that would not leave him alone, that haunted him, MacLeish chose an “ancient structure” – the Book of Job.

The story of Job can be found memorialized in an ancient fable (folk tale), ancient verse, and, of course, in the Hebrew Bible and in Scripture. It was reimagined, reconstructed, in MacLeish’s J.B., which is a play within a play, framed by a duel of egos; and inhabited by two sufferers and three comforters.

Given all the devastation experienced by thousands as a result of natural (and, perhaps, unnatural?) disasters, in 2018 alone, and given all the losses of life and property that have had to be absorbed, a sufferer might wonder, “Why me and mine?” Those spared might thankfully wonder, “Why not me and mine?”

Why does extreme loss and suffering come to some, and not others?

How much could we endure, how might we be? How much faith in the “rightness” of the world might we hold on to?

The playwright explained his play

MacLeish’s Foreword helped me grasp the dueling personalities that confounded my initial reading of his play, and my second reading. The Foreword (written as “a Trespass on a Monument”) explains that J.B. is “put in motion by two broken-down actors” who believe that they are to enact the Book of Job.

From a variety of reviews and commentaries, I finally surmised that, presumably to make a living, the broken-down actors have taken jobs with a traveling circus. One, a balloon-hawker imagines that he is to play the role of God, and assumes that role by putting on a God-mask. The other, a popcorn-vendor, reluctantly agrees to play the role of the devil, and does so whenever he puts on the leering red mask of Satan. When masked, these two actors challenge each other in a battle of egos, for the purpose of challenging Job’s steadfastness – his faith that God rewards good and only punishes when there is wrongdoing.

MacLeish provided this guidance: “Job’s search, like ours, was for the meaning of his afflictions – the loss of his children, the loss of everything he possessed, the loss of his wife’s kindness, who turned upon him in his agony with those ineradicable words, surely the most dreadful ever spoken by wife to husband: ‘Curse God and die!….'

“Job was, by witness of God himself, and twice repeated, ‘a perfect and upright man’ [who feared God and eschewed evil] and his destruction was, by the same unquestionable authority, ‘without cause….'

“My hero, called J.B. after the current fashion in business address, bears little relation to that ancient owner of camels, oxen, and sheep. He is not a particularly devout man. But he is, at the beginning of the play, prosperous, powerful, possessed of a lovely wife, fine children – everything the heart of a man can desire.”

MacLeish tells us that J.B. is aware – “as he could hardly help being” – that God has favored him. Like Job of the Bible, J.B. is not prepared for the “sudden and inexplicable loss of everything.” He is desperate to know the reason for his losses and his wretchedness.

Giving voice to God and the devil via “a stunning device”

In his December 30, 1958 New York Herald Tribune review, Walter Kerr advised his readers that “J.B. takes place under the dark and billowing canvas of an empty circus tent, where a balloon-man and a popcorn-peddler have decided to play God and the devil, respectively, while a band of unidentified mummers re-enacts the story of Job.”

The review informed readers that the pompous brimming-with- balloon-man (played by Raymond Massey, “immensely dignified in a trim white beard”) assumed the role of God. Needing a foil, he has to coax the popcorn-peddler to take on the role of the devil.

The hawker with the tray of unsold popcorn does not relish the idea of playing the devil. But the popcorn-peddler (“performed with brilliant mockery by Christopher Plummer”) shrugs and murmurs, “Well, it’s a demanding role.” Almost immediately upon slipping on a glowing red, leering mask, which features a sneering lip, the popcorn-peddler warms to the role. The review informed readers that the moment he slips on the mask, “he discovers that the mask has its own life, that it speaks through him and for him; that, in fact, he cannot silence it.”

With that review I began to grasp the role-playing assignments of the play within a play. However, by my reading, the devil becomes increasing compassionate as the God character insists on dealing J.B. misfortune upon misfortune; tragedy upon tragedy; unbearable afflictions; ultimate suffering and utter despair.

Why is J.B. being tested so severely?

Reconstructing a “thorny” Biblical story

A few weeks following the play being announced as the year’s winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, Life magazine devoted a lengthy article to MacLeish’s “monumental achievement which parallels the Bible’s thorny story of Job.”

In that May 18, 1959 issue of Life, readers were informed that “After declaring his faith in God’s justice, J.B. is beset by senseless disasters.” As if those unwarranted tragedies aren’t sufficient, the God character feels emboldened to visit still more afflictions and torments – to further test J.B.’s willingness to accept the God character’s ways. The devil is certain that these additional torments and physical afflictions will destroy J.B.’s faith in God. The latter believes that J.B. will accept these sufferings as his fate, and affirm his faith.

According to Life, J.B. “comes to realize that his repentance is for sins he has not committed and thus he recognizes that God does not operate by the laws of human justice.”

The play’s appeal: An exegesis on “shit happens”? or, is it ordained?

The play is not set in any specific time or place on Earth, thus its performances and favorable reception around the world.

Though the play’s initial conversations are set in or around an earthbound circus tent, what transpires between the God-mask and the Satan-mask seems to be on a different plane from that of the Earth – somewhere above or below any identifiable terra firma.

The play has us consider whether virtue is indeed its own reward – the only reward that may be reasonably expected. The play has us ponder whether misfortune, calamity, and catastrophe are ordained, or whether “shit just happens” to good people regardless of their goodness.

There’s also the cause-and-effect conundrum: Did Job’s (the prosperous businessman’s) self-assured piety arise from his desire to express for all his prosperity? Was he pious out of uncertainty, or from of losing his good fortune? Or did genuine pre-prosperity piety earn him his initial prosperity?

In the play, following declarations of faith and thanks at the family's Thanksgiving dinner table, J.B. is, as the devil labels him, the perfect pigeon for what we are meant to judge as unwarranted, unjust and cruel tests of faith.

Is the devil proposing one harassment after another, as a challenge to God’s certainty, God’s faith in Job? Or, are the afflictions God’s answers to the devil’s doubts about Job’s tolerance and endurance? I am not clear as to which player instigated the power play.

What is a mere mortal’s relationship with God and what might a mere mortal reasonably expect of and from God? What are God’s commitments and obligations to mere mortals, if any?

Job (a/k/a "J.B.") and Sarah’s “let’s make a deal”

At their Thanksgiving table, Job’s wife pronounces “Grace,” which she tells her children is “for the .”

Mouth and meat by grace amazed

God upon my lips is praised….

But Sarah worries that they have too much of a good thing:

God doesn’t give all this for nothing….

If we do our part, He does His….

I get frightened, Job… we have so much.

In reply, J.B. assures her,

Not for a watch-tick have I doubted

God was on my side – was helping me….

People call it luck….

It isn’t luck when God is good to you….

With an ominous prescience, Sarah delivers this foreboding:

I know you trust it. That’s what frightens me…. God rewards and God can punish….

God and Satan’s wheel of misfortune: Sympathy from the devil

The vendor who has put down his tray of unsold popcorn dons the Satan-mask. Emboldened, he confronts the God-mask by referring to Sarah’s concern about J.B.’s certainty regarding their prosperity:

Bought and paid for like a waiter’s smirk.

Wait ’til you lift the lot, he’ll sing another canticle – to different music….

Wait ’til your pigeon pecks at the world the way the rest do.

From behind the God-mask, the balloon-hawker boasts to Satan:

Nothing this good man might suffer,

Nothing at all will make him yelp as you do.

He’ll praise God no matter.

By my reading, Satan (or the role-player) appears to be discomfited by God’s (or the role-player's) piling on of afflictions. If “suffering teaches,” surely J.B. has learned whatever lesson, passed whatever test, had been intended. So Satan asks,

Why then must he suffer?....

Why then try the trust?

I could be mistaken, but by my reading, the popcorn-vendor sheds his Satan role for a moment, out of concern for J.B.:

God won’t let it happen, not to Job, the perfect and upright man. Job deserves his luck. He’s earned it.

Not yet disaffected, J.B., sobbing, declares his acceptance of misfortune,

The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away.

God commands, Finish it, Blessed be the….

What hath God wrought? and why?

By my reading, Satan (or the actor playing Satan) feels for J.B. The actor playing God comes across as arrogant. The latter seems pleased that he has destroyed J.B. without cause.

The popcorn-vendor is taken aback by all the suffering visited upon Job, “without cause”:

It isn’t decent! It isn’t moral even. It’s disgusting! His weeping wife in her despair. And he beside her on his trembling ham bones. Taking it! Eating it! It isn’t decent!

God (the role-player?) is victorious in the fear challenge. To Satan, or to popcorn-vender playing at Satan, the balloon-hawker playing God boasts and gloats:

You don’t lose gracefully, do you?

J.B., persecuted in what could be viewed as a show-trial to test faith, cries out for an answer, an explanation. He is desperate to know why he has been so afflicted. He assures his bereft wife,

God will not punish without cause… God is just!

In response to his wife’s seemingly realistic, wholly understandable despair and , J.B., prostrate, pleads:

Show me my , o God!

Rising to his knees, arms outstretched, he repeats,

Show me my guilt, o God!

Satan (or is it the pretend Satan?) concludes that there seem to be “no reasons adequate to J.B.’s catastrophes.”

Guilt – very cold comfort

Satan seems to conclude that J.B. has been made “worthy of his wretchedness” by “the gift of guilt, that putrid poultice of the soul that sucks the poison in, not out!”

Still not disaffected, J.B. rebukes his Comforters (one presumably a psychiatrist and one a cleric). He declares,

Guilt matters. Guilt must always matter. Unless guilt matters the whole world is meaningless…. Guilt must always matter…. I’d rather suffer every unspeakable suffering God sends… knowing that I had earned the need to suffer.

A Comforter suggests that “from guilt, hope begins.” When J.B. retorts, “Show me my transgressions,” the Comforter advises, “Search your inmost heart! Question it! Guilt is a deceptive secret….”

Doubt – and hopeful hopelessness

Finally, J.B. becomes desperate to be told his fault; to learn what he did to justify him suffering so much misery. He asks, “Shall I repent of sins I have not sinned?"

The actor who plays at being God offers this perspective:

We take what God has sent – the Godsend….

A world where there can be injustice….

Finally disaffected and , J.B. declares,

I will not duck my head again to thunder.

In rebuke, the actor playing God stiffens:

We have no peace but in obedience.

Our peace is acquiescence in the Will of God.

J.B. counters with resentment and his own declaration of independence from “life as a filthy farce”:

I will not and neither will I weep among the obedient who lie down to die in meek relinquishment protesting nothing, questioning nothing, asking nothing but to rise again and bow!

In stage directions, MacLeish instructs the actor playing J.B. to move “slowly, with difficulty” to deliver, “at last,” to his wife, “the hard words” about God’s unwillingness to explain “Why”:

We can never know….

He answered me like the stillness of a star that silences us asking….

We are, and that is our answer. We are and what we are can suffer. But what suffers loves, and will live its suffering again, risk its own defeat again, endure the loss of everything again, and yet again and again, in doubt, in dread, in ignorance unanswered, over and over….

Theology in the Theatre: Is J.B. cynical and irreverent? sacrilegious? blasphemous?

In his 1960 Journal of Bible and Religion appraisal, Studies Professor Burton M. Wheeler wrote that amid the “comforting [to churchmen] sweetness and light” of some 20th century theater touching on religion, “Archibald MacLeish’s J.B. intruded on the scene with troublesome audacity.”

Professor Wheeler did acknowledge, “Whether or not the verse is thin or the vulgarity is stagey or the dramatic conditions are confused, J.B. has impact on an audience and its future for revivals seems assured.”

In his Life magazine essay, “Arid Repudiation of Religion,” the Reverend Thurston N. Davis asserted that J.B. was neither a religious drama or a play: “If J.B. means anything, it is an urbane but shallow repudiation of religious faith."

Reverend Davis was editor-in-chief of America, a weekly journal of opinion published by the Jesuits of the United States and Canada. He was a member of the Society of Jesus, a scholarly religious congregation of the Catholic Church. In his view, the play's ending tells all about playwright: “It becomes quite obvious that the God who has been ‘bullwhipping’ our contemporary Job with his thundering, amplified pronouncements suddenly becomes, in Mr. MacLeish’s hands, about as meaningless as the mask worn by the old balloon-vendor who plays the role and speaks the lines of God. If J.B. ‘means’ anything, it means that the God of the Job story – He who commands the morning… gets told off and sent ingloriously to the wings by Man.”

Rev. Davis conceded that, “On the positive side, J.B. tries hard in its closing moments to become a secular affirmation of human life and human love as the sole props and rationale of bewildered humanity.”

Nevertheless, having read the J.B. script and having seen the play itself on two occasions, Rev. Davis concluded his appraisal with questions and a somewhat damning rebuke: “Are there divine ‘reasons’ for human pain? Is there at last a Justice that will set things right? Is there a Mind and a Providence at work in human affairs? Is Man enveloped by God’s Love? If I read and hear him aright, MacLeish is saying No.”

An ancient confrontation, with modern implications

In his Life magazine essay “Modern Answers to an Enigma,” Reinhold Niebuhr, who was a professor at Union Theological Seminary, credited MacLeish with “undertaking a difficult task” – attempting to answer “searching questions about the meaningless of extreme human suffering.” The attempt, wrote Niebuhr, was done with “artistic ingenuity.”

Niebuhr explained that while MacLeish’s play emphasizes “meaningless suffering,” the play “neglects the ancient book’s even more searching question about the meaning of life.”

This, Niebuhr contended, is “an even deeper problem than that of meaningless suffering but one more poignantly relevant to an atomic age which has the greatness to discover nuclear energy but lacks the to avoid the risk of nuclear war. MacLeish neglects this vital dimension of the original.”

Theologian and ethicist Niebuhr wrote, “Though MacLeish himself evidently does not believe in a personal God,” he does have God appear to Job in “a whirlwind to confront him [J.B] with all the mysteries of creation to prove that there is a meaning to life beyond that which any mere man can provide from his own limited perspective.”

The need for answers and explanations

In his Life magazine essay “Insight into Our Deep Need,” Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, who was chancellor of New York’s Jewish Theological Seminary, opened his assessment with this: “What is most startling about MacLeish’s distinguished play is its success as a Broadway production. A moralistic fable, based on the most difficult and perplexing book in Scriptures, attracts crowds in numbers usually expected only at musical comedies. Obviously J.B. answers a deep need.”

Finkelstein, a Talmud scholar, observed, “The play conveys, of course, the unspoken agony of a generation which, having witnessed the most horrible war in history, fears even more horrible catastrophes….

“In MacLeish’s view, one of our greatest problems is our failure to find any purpose in the sufferings of our time.”

The Playwright felt the need to “confess” and contest

In an article for The Christian Century, Archibald MacLeish confirmed that J.B. is intended to posit that while “God is, man may know Him only through love.”

MacLeish continued, “The justification of the universe is not our blind acceptance of God’s inexplicable will, nor our trust in God’s love, his dark and incomprehensible love, for us, but our human love, notwithstanding anything, for him… love is the only possible answer to our ancient cry against injustice.”

Luck, hard-luck, and harsh judgments

The New Yorker magazine’s theater critic, Kenneth Tynan, found the 1958 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, presentation “flawless,” but wrote, “The same, unfortunately, cannot be said of the thing presented.

Tynan credited MacLeish with going at “the task of justifying the ways of God to man” by employing the Book of Job, “that greatest of hard-luck stories,” which the playwright “retold in the form of a morality play.” While the playwright clearly wanted to raise “whirlwinds,” the critic bristled at the play’s “devotion to an antique and extravagant concept of the Deity.”

In that critic’s view, God and Man were pugilists in a metaphorical boxing match under a circus tent: “After each new body blow, God’s chosen sparring partner staggers back off the ropes for more, to the delight of God and the chagrin of Satan,” who, seemed (to me) to have moved into J.B.’s corner in the hope that the pummeled and bloodied mortal would throw in his pious towel, to “renounce and curse his Creator.”

Like a number of critics, Tynan was quite displeased with the play’s resolution – finding it to be a betrayal of all that had preceded: “To say that the ending cheats is to put it mildly. The play rests on the assumption, everywhere endorsed by the text, that we are judged by God. It then poses the question: Why are we judged so harshly?”

Tynan skewered, “Long before the final curtain, I was bored to exasperation by the lack of any recognizable human response to calamity.”

Tynan asserted that “justice, which distributes punishments and rewards, is a human invention.” He declared, to be wronged by misfortune or injustice is “not an evidence of sin.”

A contrasting concept was presented in “J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man,” by Mary Frances Thelen, a Professor of Religion. Thelen observed that many reviewers “speak of the confusion in which the audience finds itself at the end as to what is the real outcome of the play, what the author has finally concluded concerning the problem of the suffering of the innocent.”

Yet, Professor Thelen would go on to assert that J.B. must surely have had “tangible sins and sinfulness of which to repent, even if he has done nothing so dreadful as to merit the crushing disasters which overtake him”

Divine doings, wrath? or Mankind’s interventions, exuberance and inattentions?

In the ultimate show of incontestable prowess, MacLeish has God come to J.B. in a whirlwind, highlighting all that is in His power and domain.

Can we reasonably extrapolate from that demonstration of might that God is to blame for hurricane-force winds, tornadoes, and the wildfires fanned and spread by wind? Are the torrential rains that bring devastating floods, rockslides, and mudslides punishments demanding a modern-day Noah?

Or, has been so impacted by Man, the steward and groundskeeper of Earth, as to despoil what was entrusted to Man by the Creator?

Are we to expect God’s intervention to halt and restore what came about as a result of Man’s inattention? over-extension?

Has Mankind’s unkindness to the planet rewritten the God-mortal pact to read, “The Lord giveth, and Man taketh away?”

All this is beyond me. I report, you decide.

But like J.B.’s wife, I do wonder how it is that I have been so very fortunate (so damn lucky), while others have not. “Why me?”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments:

J. B. – the Samuel French, Inc. acting edition

“Theater: MacLeish Drama Based on the Story of Job” New York Herald Tribune, December 30, 1958

“The Ageless Story of Job’s Ordeals in the Year’s Prize Play” Life magazine, May 18, 1959

“Job’s Ordeal in Great Play” Life magazine, December 22, 1958

“Theology and the Theatre” by Professor Burton M. Wheeler, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1960

The New Yorker magazine, Kenneth Tynan review, December 20, 1958

“J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man” by Mary Frances Thelen, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1959

“The Book of Job” by Archibald MacLeish, published in The Christian Century, April 8, 1959

The Book of Job: When Bad Things Happened to a Good Person (Nextbook Press) by Rabbi Harold Kushner, excerpted and adapted for Tablet magazine as “Bad Things, Good Person: Is Misfortune God’s Doing?” 3 October 2012

Special thanks to Janet Valeski of Quinnipiac University’s Bernhard Library, Christina DeLucia of Quinnipiac University’s School of Law Library, and Amy Bush of the University of California Davis Shields Library.

====== 233 ========

WHY ARE PATIENTS RELUCTANT TO TAKE MEDICATION?

I’ve been through this before, the emotional fragility and unwarranted tears. Depre—No. No. I couldn't bear the thought of returning to that black bottomless pit. I can't even bring myself to use the word.

I search my . Why now? Has something triggered it? A fleeting thought: Is it related to yesterday's bout of sensory overload?

I have cavernous angiomas, clusters of thin-walled blood vessels in my . Two of them had bled, turning my life upside-down. To prevent future bleeds, I underwent three brain surgeries to remove the culprits. The ordeal left me with a number of neurological challenges.

Source: Deb Brandon

Among the various meds I take to manage these issues is the anti-seizure , Lamictal, which was prescribed by my neurologist several months before my surgeries. The 300 milligram daily dose was effective, but I looked forward to my post-surgery days. I was sure the surgeries would eliminate many of my symptoms, especially the seizures. I believed that eventually, I’d be able to wean myself off the Lamictal.

I was wrong—the seizures made a comeback, and my daily dose was increased to 400 milligrams.

It did not occur to me that the dose would go any higher. I certainly didn’t think that Lamictal would target another aftereffect of the surgeries— . In fact, the thought that I was suffering from biological depression didn’t enter my mind until I tumbled into the maw of suicide ideation.

During the first four months after the surgeries, I attributed my frequent tears to situational depression: I'd been through a lot; depression was to be expected. But after I became , of returning to that state of mind chased away denial, and I admitted my thoughts of suicide to my therapist, who pointed out that brain injury itself can cause depression. Since Lamictal is also a mood stabilizer, my psychiatrist increased my dose to 600 milligrams, which successfully controlled both depression and seizures.

Prior to the brain bleeds, I’d always kept my use of any type of medication to a minimum: painkillers for headaches and antibiotics for bacterial infections, nothing else. Now here I was, popping pills daily—6 pills to manage seizures and depression; two pills for blood pressure, to prevent additional bleeds; two pills for a folic-acid deficiency often associated with depression. In addition, I took a variety of pain-killers for crippling headaches. I felt like I was poisoning myself with all these meds, and the Lamictal was the worst of the lot, especially now that I was on a higher dose.

But I was that my depression was temporary. I was convinced that it was caused by the surgeries and that as I healed, my depression would subside. In time, I would be able to eliminate the Lamictal from my daily regimen of medication altogether.

Five years after the surgeries, my seizures and depression seemed to be things of the past, and, with my neurologist's and psychiatrist's blessings, I started decreasing the Lamictal dose. After several trial runs with lowered dosages, I was down to 500 milligrams per day.

Unfortunately, a couple of years later, the meds lost effectiveness—once again depression shadowed my every step. My psychiatrist, instead of increasing the dose of Lamictal, augmented it with another anti-depressant, Celexa. Not only did my depression abate, but so did my spells of sensory overload.

Sensory overload: During my first few years of recovery, I had enormous difficulties processing incoming sensory data. When the circuits in my brain overloaded, they jammed up, causing confusion and panic, which usually brought on spectacular meltdowns followed by emotional fragility that sometimes lasted for days.

According to my psychiatrist, the Celexa, in addition to addressing depression, also reduced , which had been feeding into sensory overloads, making them worse.

But now, years post-surgery, sensory overload was a rare occurrence; at its worst, I merely teared up, and then only briefly.

But over the last few weeks, I'd occasionally become weepy for no apparent reason. At first, I assumed that theses episodes were related to sensory overload. But given their increasing frequency, I started to wonder.

Then this morning, more than a decade since the surgeries, with no warning, I found myself sobbing, tears streaming down my cheeks.

What was going on? I recalled that yesterday, after attending a crowded event at work, I suffered an extreme case of sensory overload, such as I hadn’t experienced in years. I hadn’t had a meltdown since…since when? Two, three years ago? Probably more. Was today’s crying jag just an aftereffect of yesterday’s overload?

I shied away from the thought that this morning’s tears were due to depression once again descending. But I couldn’t repress my whispering about the possibility. I can't afford to stick my head in the sand. I cannot risk spiraling into the abyss like I did so long ago.

I probably should make an appointment with my psychiatrist as soon as possible—but she might increase the dosage of Lamictal or Celexa, and I feel the old resistance to "more meds" rise up. Will it do any harm to wait a bit longer? Maybe this is just be a blip that will pass.

I’m calmer now, no longer crying. Yes, I decide, I can afford to wait and see. I’ll hold off, for now. Until tomorrow, if I find myself weeping uncontrollably again, for absolutely no reason.

====== 234 ========

THE BEAUTY OF CONNECTIONS

Source: Photo by B. Luceigh

I feel driven to offer reflections on beautiful connections between humans. Perhaps my need arises to counterbalance sad prompted by the upcoming holidays, the weariness of ongoing divisive news, or the horrors of recent fires and floods. In the midst of many shadows, I am especially sensitive to the universal presence of what I experience as the Light of .

When I have a brief, sincere, face-to-face interaction with a stranger, I often sense delicate wavelets of Beauty passing through me. These encounters occur in safe public settings. The interactions are as simple as thanking someone for holding a door open for me, initiating a chat while waiting in line, or just smiling at someone as we pass on the sidewalk. I have become more observant of others doing likewise. In such situations, I have no need to know the stranger’s history, values, or views. I have no motive other than to connect beautifully. I best do so when I am fully present in the simple moments of the exchange. They are moments of connection, human with human, through mutual acknowledgement of each other’s existence.

I am likely to quickly forget any single connection amidst whatever I was otherwise doing at the time. Each event is like a punctuation mark within the paragraphs of my life. Each indicates when to pause, be alert, be curious, or stop as my personal story unfolds. What is most meaningful to me is the collection of not only mine but all such interactions with strangers. That collection serves to remind me again and again that there are other humans across our planet also interweaving beautiful connections among our species. I am reminded I am not alone at the deepest level of our shared humanity even though we each differ in our outward expressions of it. I am always a participant in life, but I better experience its Wholeness when I share the awareness of it by simple moments of connection. It is a practice that opens my heart and broadens my mind to our common inheritance as children of Earth.

Other connections that have been ongoing for longer periods of time become . More time allows for varieties of shared experience, exploration of values and preferences, and formation of memories. Over time, caring relationships may become deeper, stronger, and more loving ones as Beauty expresses herself within their connections.

When I consider my loving relationships in the context of the whole of existence, I see each as a form arising from universal Beauty—like a rosebud rising from an amorphous cloud. A deeply loving relationship provides evolving connections to nurture each other’s continuous developmental transformation into a more beautiful human flower. To “grow up” psychologically and “wake up” spiritually, whether as individuals or as a relationship, are exquisite expressions of Beauty’s limitless connections into forms.

When I have a brief, sincere connection to a stranger, I wonder if a micro-version of a loving relationship momentarily comes into being. Perhaps it’s like the brief fragrance of a rose emanating from inside a flower shop as one passes—noticed for only a moment before being lost by the next breath. I wonder if some small influence to connect can be recorded in the heart-mind of a stranger I speak to or smile at. I like to believe the voice or smile leaves a delicate memory that joins and enhances related memories within that person—like multiple times smelling a rose from outside a flower shop strengthens a single conscious recollection.

Might beautiful experiences join together to work their way from the unconscious to the conscious heart-mind within a human? Might the recipient of beautiful encounters with multiple strangers motivate one to transform into a more beautiful human? Might multiple times smelling roses entice one to take the first step into the flower shop? When I am sincerely present for another human, stranger or not, am I serving in that moment as Beauty’s fragrance drawing forth the soft edge of the rosebud of his/her potential as a human?

My belief in Beauty prompts me to find ways to embody her as I connect to others. My belief in Beauty reminds me that Good and True connections to others will help heal dark moments in our lives. Over time, I believe brief, sincere connections between strangers can transform into deeply caring relationships among humanity.

As you hold open the shop door for me,

may my as I pass

hold open your heart for you.

====== 235 ========

HALFWAY THROUGH THE WOOD

Source: Photo: Jessica Teich, used with permission

On a hot, still Sunday morning, I got an email from a dear friend’s ex-husband and son. It had a deceptively simple subject heading: “Sad News.”

It is with deep sorrow that we inform you that Judy passed away earlier today at her Santa Monica home. She was surrounded by her loved ones after a long struggle with her illness, which she kept very private.

“Very private” was an understatement: She hadn’t told anyone she was dying. No one even knew she was sick. Yet Judy wasn’t afraid even of the most difficult subjects, including her from the man who came back to care for her when she was ailing, or the terrible death of her own mother, whose giant necklace she wore like a talisman.

Judy and I first met more than twenty years ago, sitting on the floor of one of those progressive preschools where all the other moms were wearing yoga pants. When she said her name was Judy Blume— a name she shared with the beloved children’s author— I grinned and said I still had some questions about menstruation. (Remember Are You There God? It’s Me,Margaret?)She laughed, obligingly, I’m sure, and launched into one of the searching conversations that were her signature.

That’s the kind of conversation I want to have with her now. About her.

Judy was a literary person, a theatre person, and she particularly loved Stephen Sondheim. In fact, “Sondheim Fan” was her “handle,” before we even knew what handles were. She once sat in my living room and sang “No One is Alone” with my five-year-old daughter.

Sometimes people leave you

Halfway through the wood.

For a long time, she secretly rehearsed a cabaret act of her favorite songs. To console myself, I imagine her as one of T.S. Eliot’s mermaids, “singing, each to each.” Then I remember: I will never hear her voice again, just as Eliot never hears his mermaids:

I do not think that they will sing to me.

No one is alone, according to her beloved Sondheim, but Judy was, or nearly. When I began contacting our mutual , they were as surprised and devastated as I. I had sensed something was off and kept reaching out to her, mostly by text— the staccato informality seemingly a substitute for :

Where are you?

Are you okay?

Then one day I ventured, how are you feeling?

“Null,” she shot back.

The daughter with whom she’d sung Sondheim and I laughed, thinking Judy meant “well,” but had been autocorrected.

Now I wonder if “null” meant “ill,” and I just didn’t know it.

Why didn’t she want anyone to know?

Maybe it was pride, because she didn’t like to be fawned over. Or a healthy : She wanted to be remembered as she was. Vivid black hair, and that low, liquid voice, and the way she gave the word “theatre” three syllables. Bold enough in late middle age to wear a bathing suit to a pool party, plunging into the velvety water on a cold summer day. Judy worked out on the Santa Monica stairs for years, long after it was healthy for her hip. When she fell silent, I wondered if that hip was bothering her again. Maybe she needed a replacement? Were we really that old?

We met, sitting on pillows at a preschool.

Now our toddlers were turning 21.

Judy worked for years as a film editor, but left the profession when the hours proved too hard for a mostly single mother. She later became a therapist, graduating from a program many Hollywood people turn to in . I wouldn’t have thought her filmmaking skills would translate to : Therapists don’t edit things; they let the material emerge and take its own shape. But Judy had the most essential quality: she listened deeply. Very few people do. And I would have heard her, if she’d said, “I’m really ill” or “I’m dying.” I would have listened if she’d wanted to say good-bye.

“It’s me,” Judy Blume said whenever she called. She never said her name, that fabled name. If we were close enough that she needn’t have identified herself on the phone, wasn’t I close enough to know she was dying? I could have been there, to bring soup, to fluff pillows, to sing Sondheim; to help with the meds or the bills or the household chores. I could have been there, to recall the preschool playdates, the middle school struggles, the moment we began to let go of our kids in high school, because we had to.

We let go because we had no other choice.

One last , of bumping into her in an art museum in Los Angeles. She and her German beau (now her ex) were going to the desert to get married. Their son was three years old, and it seemed like the right time. I marveled at her cool, back in a day when people—at least nice Jewish girls from Philadelphia suburbs— got married before having a baby. She was impressively free. An iconoclast.

So, of course, she would choose to die in a way unlike anyone else. And I must let her go, not as I would wish to, but as she insisted I do.

Still, I haven’t been able to delete her final text message with the word “null.” I try not to dwell on the terrible void it describes. Sometimes I want to shout into the abyss, as if confronting the Judy Blume who wrote provocative children’s books: I’ve got questions! About life! About the end of things! About the pain you must have suffered, and the .

And the question, also without an answer, that tugs at me with an almost tidal pressure: How can I accept that I will never see you again?

Judy was a film editor, but she edited out all the interstitial tissue that binds our ideas about death; the long, labored days that allow loved ones to grieve. She left behind so many questions, not just about her only child but about her house and her dogs, Siberian huskies with piercing Arctic eyes. “They’re escape artists,” she once said of the two goliaths, forever finding their way out of her yard.

Judy was an escape artist, too.

It’s left to us to remember her, sleek as an otter in the water. Or singing.

It’s left to us to love her and let go.

====== 236 ========

THE HIPPOCAMPUS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND PHYSICAL HEALTH

is nothing more than good and a bad memory. —Albert Schweitzer

The hippocampus is a key area of the brain involved with basic function, part of the temporal lobe and intimately related with the amygdala. The hippocampus is involved with memory storage and retrieval, while the amygdala is best known for its role in and alarm in the face of potential threats. When functioning properly, the hippocampus is thought to create an appropriate context for , helping to support a coherent narrative of what is and is not really dangerous, keeping the amygdala regulated so that it is active only when appropriate...and buffering against excess , both from the and internally-generated.

Posttraumatic and stress-related effects

In conditions where fear-based responses have become poorly regulated, such as , the hippocampus has been found to be smaller in size and less effective at grounding the alarm signaling of the amygdala. It isn’t clear whether having a smaller hippocampus is the result of , a factor which predisposes to developing PTSD, or both. While there are many studies showing an association between PTSD and other conditions, and smaller hippocampi, there are only small twin studies comparing traumatized with non-traumatized suggesting that smaller hippocampi may be a risk factor for subsequent PTSD. On the other hand, animal studies have shown that chronic stress directly reduces the size of the hippocampus, and effective treatment can increase the size of the hippocampus and other brain regions. Most likely, there are complex two-way among hippocampus size, environmental factors, and risk for positive and negative impacts on well-being.

Such persistent activation of threat-response systems when no threat is present is associated with negative health effects due to connections between the hippocampus and other parts of the brain, including the HPA-axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal) which regulates stress such as cortisol and adrenaline in the brain and body. In fact, the hippocampus has been found to play a role in well-being beyond its role in PTSD.

Self-esteem, health and the hippocampus

In recent research (Lu, Li, Wang, Song and Liu, 2018), study authors highlight the role of the hippocampus for both self-esteem and physical health, seeking to understand if the hippocampus is part of the brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and greater physical health. In reviewing the prior literature, researchers offer key observations. First, higher self-esteem is associated with better health outcomes and longevity, likely via higher reported levels of positive states including , relaxation, and joy. Lower self-esteem, in contrast, is associated with negative health outcomes, with increased risks for and , and use, and increased risk for cardiovascular and other diseases.

Second, the the hippocampus is closely involved with self-esteem. This makes sense given that the hippocampus is involved with autobiographical memory, a key part of our sense of self and , how we feel about ourselves and the stories we tell ourselves and others about who we are. Neuroimaging research has shown that the hippocampus is larger and more active in people with greater self-esteem. Finally, the hippocampus is connected not just with psychiatric problems, but also plays a role in physical health. Research has shown, for example, that the hippocampus is smaller in size in Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, chronic and inflammation. The hippocampus is larger, on the other hand, in people with greater aerobic fitness, suggesting it may play a role in overall health.

Does the hippocampus connect self-esteem with physical health?

Given these observations, Lu and colleagues hypothesized that the hippocampus might be part of the underlying brain circuitry connecting self-esteem and physical health. In order to answer this question, they recruited 239 college students for a neuroimaging research study looking at the following factors: self-esteem, via the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES); physical health, via the Chinese Constitute Questionnaire (CCQ), a standard, validated measurement tool of general physical health; and structural MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), to look at the size of the hippocampus in study participants. Researchers then analyzed the data and performed a “mediation analysis” to determine what, if any, role hippocampal volume had in mediating the relationship between self-esteem and physical health.

First, they found that self-esteem and physical health were significantly correlated with one another in their study, confirming the results of prior research. They also showed that in this group of participants self-esteem and hippocampal volume were positively correlated for both left and right sides of the brain. The larger the hippocampi, the greater the reported self-esteem. Furthermore, they also found a positive correlation with hippocampus size and physical health, again for both left and right sides. Replicating the findings of previous research, they reported three key relationships: 1) self-esteem and physical health; 2) larger hippocampus and self-esteem; 3) larger hippocampus and physical health.

Source: Lu et al., 2018

However, while suggestive, these findings alone don’t provide evidence that the hippocampus is a primary player in determining how higher self-esteem leads to better physical health. In order to see whether the hippocampus is part of the pathway connecting self-esteem and physical health, researchers analyzed the data to see whether the connection between self-esteem and physical health remained as robust after factoring out the role of the hippocampus. In other, words, we can see how much the hippocampus mediates between self-esteem and physical health by seeing what happens when we subtract the contribution of the hippocampus, and see what is left over. When study authors performed this mediation analysis, they found that (illustration) there was a statistically significant decrease in the correlation between self-esteem and physical health, showing that hippocampal size is a key factor connecting the two. However, self-esteem and physical health were still related, independent of the hippocampus, showing that it is not the only factor connecting the two.

What can we do to enjoy greater self-esteem and physical well-being?

This is an early yet intriguing finding suggesting that the hippocampus has a primary, but not exclusive, role in determining how self-esteem leads to better physical health. It is tempting to speculate about the role of the hippocampus in identity and sense of self as an overarching influence in providing good sense of self, secure and healthy relationships with others, and as a result better self-care, especially given how trauma can interfere with physical and emotional health, and impair self-care.

On a basic level, however, the hippocampus is involved with regulating key physiological factors, balancing stress and relaxation responses depending on the context, under the influence of “top-down” factors from higher brain centers involved with executive function and conscious control of behavior. Future research can look in more detail at other brain networks involved in hippocampal control, in order to find ways to optimize physical health as mediated by self-esteem, to understand what specific behaviors may influence hippocampal function to foster greater health and whether existing and new treatments can target key brain regions to be more effective.

Does increasing self-esteem increase the size and function of the hippocampus? If so, what are the specific mechanisms? How does aerobic exercise increase hippocampus size, and how much of the health benefits are the result of altered hippocampal function? What tools can we develop to leverage the role of the hippocampus on health? Is the hippocampus involved in the positive effects of gratitude, , and happiness on well-being, shifting the stories we tell ourselves about who we are in literally healthier ways?

How much of a role does the hippocampus play in ensuring we can have healthy relationships with others, a factor which is also associated with better physical health? It makes sense to keep doing things we know help us feel better about ourselves, enjoy greater self-esteem and self-efficacy, and do more of what makes us feel better and be healthier, while looking forward to understanding how best to use emerging brain science to provide additional tools for improving health and quality of life.

====== 237 ========

HAVE WE UNDERESTIMATED THE HARM CAUSED BY LOW SELF-ESTEEM?

Until now, there’s been surprisingly little research on the prime driving factors of self-harm among LGBTQ students who are statistically at a much higher risk of suicide and non- (NSSI) than their heterosexual counterparts. For the first time, a new study, “Psychological Correlates of Self-Harm within Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual UK University Students,” reports that low may have a bigger influence on self-injury behaviors than or .

Source: Sharon McCutcheon/Pexels

Based on the cohort used for this study, almost two-thirds (65%) of students in their early 20s who self-identify as Lesbian, Gay, or Bisexual (LGB) had carried out non-suicidal self-harm over their lifetime. Tragically, 35 percent of LGB students in this survey reported an attempted suicide in their lifetime compared to 14 percent of non-LGB students.

Other types of NSSI self-harm are behaviors such as , binge drinking, non-lethal overdoses, cutting, burning, scratching, and trichotillomania.

The authors explain the layout of their latest research on self-harm: "This study explores the association between lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) status and self-harm in UK students. There is currently limited data on this association, and the role psychological variables have in potentially explaining this link, in UK students. We examine whether LGB status is associated with self-harm (both non-suicidal self-injury [NSSI] and suicide attempts [SA]), and whether 4 psychological variables (depression, anxiety, belongingness, self-esteem) mediate this association.”

This study was a collaborative effort by researchers from the University of Manchester, Leeds Beckett University, Lancaster University, and Edith Cowan University in Australia.

"Surprisingly, there is little data on the psychological mechanisms that might explain the association between being lesbian, gay or bisexual, and self-harm in UK students. This data highlights how low self-esteem may leave some LGB students more at risk. Interestingly, anxiety and depressive symptoms did not appear to be important once self-esteem was taken into account,” first author Peter Taylor said in a statement.

Senior author Elizabeth McDermott of Lancaster University added: "Young people's mental is a national concern and this study confirms that lesbian, gay or bisexual young people have elevated rates of suicidality and self-harm compared with heterosexual youth. We know much less about how LGB young people seek help for their mental health problems, or what type of support would be effective."

Anecdotally, I corroborate the conclusion by Peter Taylor et al. that low-self esteem puts lesbian, gay, and bisexual students at higher risk of self-harm. Based on my first-person experience as a gay student in the 1980s who suffered from a triple whammy of (1) clinical depression, (2) crippling anxiety, and (3) low self-esteem—I realized in adulthood that it was primarily my feelings of worthlessness and low-self esteem (more than depression or anxiety) that pushed me to the brink of taking my own life.

Can Physical Activity, Mental Toughness, and Sub-Clinical Narcissism Facilitate a “Sunny” Triad that Combats Low-Esteem?

For the second part of this blog post, I’m going to shift gears and present some prescriptive advice I’ve cobbled together based on a blend of the latest empirical evidence and personal life experience.

Because there’s such a dearth of evidence-based research on the link between low self-esteem and self-harm amongst members of the LGBTQ community, I’ve made myself a human guinea pig and deconstructed specific factors that helped me boost my self-esteem as a gay teen through the lens of the latest research on subclinical narcissism (SN) and the so-called “Dark Triad” (DT) of narcissism, , and Machiavellianism.

After piecing together the latest findings on some adaptive benefits of subclinical narcissism over the past week, I’ve created a new term and coined it: “The Sunny Triad." The ST consists of physical activity (PA), mental toughness (MT), and healthy doses of subclinical narcissism (SN).

Source: diggis/Shutterstock

Last week, I wrote a Psychology Today blog post, “Don’t Believe the Hype! ‘Narcissists’ Aren’t Necessarily Evil" inspired by a study from Kostas Papageorgiou and colleagues at Queen’s University Belfast, “The Positive Effect of Narcissism on Depressive Symptoms Through Mental Toughness: Narcissism May Be a Dark Trait, but It Does Help with Seeing the World Less Grey,” published Nov. 1 in European .

In my "Don't Believe the Hype!" blog post—which tries to dissuade people from indiscriminately throwing around the derogatory label " " without acknowledging that narcissism exists on a spectrum—I share my own stories of overcoming low self-esteem and adopting a “YES! Bring it on. I got this!” mindset as a gay teen. For me, the key to overcoming my tendency to inflict self-harm involved developing some healthy narcissism and a "sense of agency" at a time when I felt my life didn't matter.

Papageorgiou posits that healthy doses of SN are correlated with increased mental toughness, more to Experience (OE) and fewer depressive symptoms (DS). I agree.

Notably, over the years, I've found that music can play a pivotal role in kick-starting an upward spiral of PA, SN, MT, and OE by creating to break a sweat doing some moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA). For more, check out this "Subclinical Narcissists' Playlist" of 22 songs I curated to help generate more self-esteem and overall oomph.

As a side note: I realize that the growing list of acronyms herein is beginning to sound like alphabet soup... But each of these factors (SN, MT, OE, PA, etc.) are key elements that can be blended together into a psychosocial concoction that has the power to boost feelings of self-sufficiency, self-worth, higher self-esteem, and lower depression.

Coincidentally, after sharing my latest blog post on the possible upside of healthy doses of narcissism, Gregory Carter of York St. John University retweeted the link with a comment, “An interesting article that chimes with some of the positive outcomes (for the self) associated with aspects of sub-clinical narcissism, also reported in work by me and @DrMDDpsych and other papers with @DrRobertVaughan @YSJPsych.”

After reading Carter’s Tweet, I Googled his research and found a recent paper he’d done with Robert Vaughan, “Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger? Mental toughness, the Dark Triad, and Physical Activity,” (2018) which identified a positive relationship between mental toughness, sub-clinical narcissism, and higher levels of physical activity among elite-level athletes.

This paper by Gregory Carter and colleagues overlayed with the work of Kostas Papageorgiou et al. triggered an “Aha!” moment in my and was a catalyst for my realization that physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism may be part of a “sunny triad” that can increase self-esteem. Based on my own life experience and the empirical evidence provided by the aforementioned researchers, I suspect that combining the "sunny triad" of three acronyms (PA + MT + SN) on a regular basis in day-to-day life may be a recipe for boosting self-esteem.

Over the past few days, I’ve been corresponding with Gregory Carter for a follow-up blog post and Q&A we’re collaborating on tentatively titled: ”Physical Activity May Brighten Aspects of the Dark Triad: Can physical activity, mental toughness, and sub-clinical narcissism create a "sunny" triad?”

====== 238 ========

MULTITASKING IN THE MIND'S EYE

Source: Pixabay / CC0 Public Domain

It’s common knowledge by now that multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to go about our daily business. Study after study has shown that when we try to perform multiple tasks at the same time, we end up doing each of them more slowly and less accurately than if we had focused on one task at a time, which is all our actually permits us to do. And while we’re not always aware of this inefficiency in our own efforts at multitasking, we notice it every day in other people. Just this morning, for instance, when I stopped by a local fast food establishment to pick up breakfast, the headset-wearing cashier who approached me at the counter simultaneously took my order while completing an order in drive-thru, and on the way to pick up my food, restocked cups, removed the hash brown basket from the fryer, and set up three cups on the automatic soda dispenser. I was not the least bit surprised, then, when I got to my car and discovered that my two ham biscuits and coffee had turned into a breakfast burrito and hot tea with a cookie on the side. Multi-tasking is, quite simply, a bad idea. Our brains are wired to focus on one task at a time, and to try to do more than that is to fight against our own , neurally speaking.

And yet, fight we do. Flying in the face of the prevailing about the fundamental inefficiency of multitasking, most of us spend our days performing multiple tasks at once because it simply makes us feel like we are getting more work done in a shorter span of time—it gives us the illusion of efficiency. Given our insistence on multitasking, in spite of what the scientific evidence might say, it is comforting to learn that this illusion of efficiency might not be purely illusory after all. New research from the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan suggests that, while trying to perform many tasks at once is less efficient than taking them on one at a time, the perception that we are multitasking can, under certain circumstances, actually improve our performance. Srna et al. presented people with a variety of activities that could be viewed as either single tasks or collections of multiple tasks, and compared their performance on the tasks on the basis of which way they perceived them.

In one study, 162 participants were divided into two groups and asked to watch and transcribe an educational video. One group was told they would be completing two tasks simultaneously—a learning task and a transcribing test--while the other was told they would be working on a single learning task meant to test their learning and writing abilities. In other words, while both groups were performing exactly the same activity, one group viewed their effort as multitasking, while the other considered themselves to be performing a single task. When the results of the two groups’ note-taking sessions were compared, the people who perceived the work as multitasking outperformed the group that viewed it as a single task, transcribing more words, showing greater accuracy in their transcriptions, and scoring higher on an unannounced quiz at the end of the study. The perception that they were multitasking significantly improved the first group’s efficiency, as compared to the second, single task group.

In another study, 237 participants were divided into two groups and asked to work on two puzzles—a 15 x 15 matrix of letters from in which they searched for words in a horizontal, vertical, and diagonal pattern, and an anagram task in which they constructed as many words as possible from a string of ten letters. The “multitasking” group was told that the puzzles related to two different studies (perceptual and identification), while the “single-tasking” group was told that the two puzzles were both part of a single “perceptual-identification” study. As with the video transcription study, the group that believed they were performing two tasks at once outperformed the group that believed they were performing a single task, coming up with more words in the time allotted. Once again, the illusion of multitasking appeared to increase efficiency.

The researchers conjecture that the boost in efficiency they observed in the participants who perceived themselves as multi-tasking has to do with their relative engagement in the tasks with which they were presented. Previous studies have demonstrated that people’s for investing effort and attention increases with the difficulty of a given task. The participants’ perception that they were multitasking may have increased their engagement with the tasks because they considered performing multiple tasks at once more challenging than performing one task at a time. This conjecture was supported by physiological measures, in that the multitasking group exhibited greater pupil dilation during their work than did the single-tasking group, and pupil dilation has been shown to be associated with people’s “attentional and mental effort, processing load, and arousal.” The perception that we are multitasking may increase our engagement with a task simply because we view it as a challenge.

Another possible reason for increased engagement in perceived multitasking is the cultural perception that multitasking is a desirable . We may focus more attention on multitasking than on performing one task at a time simply because we wish to be perceived as good multitaskers. Whatever the precise source for this increased engagement may be, the study suggests that we focus more attention on an activity when we perceive it to involve multitasking, as compared to the same activity when we perceive it as involving only a single task, and that this increase in focus makes us work more efficiently.

Srna et al. are quick to clarify that their study in no way contradicts the voluminous evidence that trying to perform several tasks simultaneously is far less efficient than performing one task at a time. Multitasking, in the way most of us go about it, is still a bad idea. When faced with an activity that can be broken down into component parts, however—balancing our checking account, for example, or creating a budget report at work—approaching it as a collection of tasks instead of as a single tedious job can sharpen our focus and give us an edge in the way we execute it. While the reality of multitasking creates the false illusion of efficiency, the illusion of multitasking can make greater efficiency a reality.

====== 239 ========

THE UNEXPECTED SCIENCE OF FRESH STARTS AND FAILURES

A new study published in the journal Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes looked at the effects of “fresh starts” on performance. The fresh start effect, as it’s come to be known, is the idea that a person can disassociate their past performance outcomes from current ones. Temporal landmarks act as a kind of mental reset button to help get us back on track and get us focused on our most cherished goals.

Source: Source: Pixabay

The most common fresh start: January 1st, the start of every New Year. It’s no coincidence, for instance, that gyms see upwards of a 20% boost in memberships at this time.

The evidence has generally pointed to the benefits of fresh starts. They motivate a person to do better in achieving a goal. But now this current research tells us that they don’t always work. They can actually backfire and make us perform worse, not better. The researchers say it has to do with what comes before the performance reset.

Fresh starts are most effective, they suggest, when a person experiences failure before the restart, like how a failed plan in the month of December prompts the need for a kale-only food plan starting Jan 1. But the evidence of this paper is showing that fresh starts should be avoided if a person’s past performance was successful. If a restart is used incorrectly in such instances, it will only hinder future goal-directed behavior.

Source: source: Pixabay

The pros and cons of fresh starts: The study

There were four studies. In the first, participants took part in 10 one-minute word games where they were paid for every word they generated correctly. Halfway through, they received feedback. To manipulate the fresh start, the testing group had a reset applied with the last 5 rounds scored from zero (offering a new starting point). The control group received the same continuous scoring throughout all 10 rounds.

The second study had participants use a performance tracking app. They were asked to focus on a habit they wanted to improve and to imagine using the app to get them there. Resets were applied to all participants. But half of them assigned to a “weak performance group” were led to believe they were performing poorly, while the other half assigned to a “strong performance group” were led to believe they were performing well.

In both these first two studies, a questionnaire measured participants’ and , in addition to performance metrics. In both instances, the only people who benefited from the performance resets were the ones who had (or led to believe they had) been performing less well. And the resets actually hindered the performance of those who been doing well previously.

The third follow-up study used a similar word game. Except this time, participants were given the opportunity to complete a further round of word games that could potentially earn them extra pay. When resets were applied, the strong performers in particular were less motivated to continue on with the additional rounds.

In a final study looking at archival data, the researchers went to a high-performance domain --professional baseball. They were curious to see whether resetting a baseball player’s batting average would depend on their past performance.

Source: source: Pixabay

They could do this because in baseball, a player’s batting average gets reset to zero when they get traded (a natural fresh start). The findings showed that when players’ batting averages were lower than that of their league average (i.e. failed past performance), a trade led to a 3.8% increase in a player’s batting average. Opposite, players performing above average (i.e. successful past performance) led to a 5% decrease.

What to do about it

The takeaway: Fresh starts should be used with care. A person should be more selective in their performance resets, and recognize in themselves the difference between their good and bad past performance. If a person has been succeeding and hitting their goals, it’d be for them to avoid starting tasks on temporal landmarks.

For instance, this can be achieved by exaggerating the of a continued goal process and drawing to the previous periods’ reporting and metrics. A person who’s doing well thus far on a particular project could, let’s say, see Monday not as a new start to the week, but as a regular day that continues from the day previous. Not to condone working over-time on weekends, but it might even help to do a little bit of work on the Sunday.

And for those of us lagging behind in our personal and professional goals, no need to worry – January 1st is right around the corner.

Want to know more about goals, motivation, and peak performance? Head on over to get tactical advice and insights from the latest research.

====== 240 ========

HOW FREE IS OUR WILL?

Source: Pixabay

When I give talks demonstrating that we all have innate psychological predispositions – traits that influence our behavior across our lifetimes – I often get asked what implications this has for . If our behaviors are affected in some way by our genes or by the way our brains are wired, doesn’t that mean that we’re really not that free after all?

The answer depends, I think, on the kind of free will you’re after and on an of the mechanisms by which we make choices. And let me say at the outset that we do make choices. The idea that has somehow done away with free will altogether or proven that it is an illusion is nonsense. All neuroscience has shown is that when you are making decisions, things are happening in your brain.

This is, to put it mildly, not a surprise: Where else would things be happening? And it really has no implications for free will, unless you are a dualist. If you think of the mind as some kind of object that has existence independent of the brain, then I suppose you might be upset to find that your decisions have a physical basis in brain activity. But if you think of “mind” not as an object but as an activity or process – the brain in action – then, well, seeing the brain in action as you make a decision is just what you’d expect.

So, yes, we make choices – really, really. But how free are those choices? How much are they constrained by other things over which we really have no control? How much are they affected by antecedent causes?

In particular, if I have some psychological traits over which I had (and continue to have) no control, and those traits influence my behavior (or at least my behavioral tendencies) then am I really fully in control of my own actions? If someone asks me to a party and I decide not to go, is that because I’m wired to be shy? Perhaps I could have chosen to go, and maybe sometimes I do, but maybe only because I happen to be in a sociable mood or feeling brave that day, and maybe I am not in control of that either.

Well, the first thing to say is that this problem arises no matter the origin of our psychological traits. In my book INNATE, I present the evidence that variation in and in the processes of brain development lead to innate psychological differences between people, which affect the trajectory of their lives, influencing their experiences, the way they react to them, and the types of habitual behaviors they develop. But if you’d rather believe—in the face of overwhelming contrary evidence—that all such traits come completely from experience instead, the problem is just as acute.

If we each have real and stable characteristics of temperament and , then it doesn’t really matter for this question of free will whether they came from genetics and brain development, or our experiences and . In either situation, some antecedent causes have affected the physical structures of our brains in a way that influences our decisions, right now, at this moment. In which case, you could argue, that our will is not so free after all.

In one sense, this is trivial – our decisions, in any given situation, are of course affected by our prior experiences and our current . The whole point of having a brain is that it lets you learn from the results of actions you have taken in the past in various types of scenarios. That information is then used to predict the outcomes of a range of possible actions that could be taken when such a scenario is encountered again.

I don’t think anyone sees that as undermining our free will – indeed, you could say that choosing between those options, based on what we have learned of the world, in order to further our own goals, is the process of free will in action.

It is the idea that the options open to us are constrained somehow by our underlying psychological predispositions that seems to threaten our freedom.

And this does seem to be the case. In the first instance, the range of options that even occur to us – that somehow arise in our brains for consideration – is limited by our personality traits and experiences. Two different people in ostensibly the same situation, with the same primary goal, may nevertheless be choosing from a very different set of possible actions. This is because the interplay of their underlying traits and their experiences across their lives will have created a very different set of additional goals, constraints, and heuristics.

For example, two people in a meeting may share a goal of advancing their ideas on some topic under discussion. But one of them may have a conflicting goal – avoid social at all costs. This may be due to a natural inclination towards , reinforced by a lifetime of experience, where social interaction is not as intrinsically rewarding as it is for other people, and where the subjective feeling of embarrassment is more acutely felt.

Even if it is not consciously perceived, that goal of avoiding embarrassment may act as a powerful constraint on the person’s behavior. They may come home and complain to their partner how they’d wished they’d been brave enough to speak up – instead, stupid Gary who never shuts up dominated the meeting as usual and ended up getting his way. “I wish I had more !”, they might say, conceding that their conscious desires were somehow thwarted by their underlying psychological make-up. ]

The decider-in-chief

This seems to be the type of thing people are worrying about when confronted with the evidence that we really do have lasting psychological traits that influence our behavior. And this worry appears to be more keenly felt when such traits are shown to have a physical basis in the way our brains are wired. It seems to threaten the primacy of our conscious selves in the process.

Perhaps we’re like a puppet president – making “decisions” about what to do, but only from the highly limited set of options presented to us by the generals and civil servants – limited based on criteria we are never aware of. Or maybe we’re not even really making the decisions at all – perhaps even that stage of the process is dominated by factors. Maybe we’re like a magician’s stooge, impelled to make certain decisions through influences beyond our apprehension, with only an illusion of control.

Personally, I think this goes too far. It can certainly be demonstrated that many of the decisions we make are affected by things of which we are not aware. That does not mean that all the decisions we make are like that. Even if we’re on autopilot most of the time, that doesn’t mean we can’t ever take the controls. And anyway, being on cognitive autopilot most of the time is not necessarily a bad thing – quite the opposite, in fact.

The last thing we would want is to have to make decisions from first principles every time we are doing something. If we had to consciously weigh up every aspect of every decision in every situation we find ourselves in we’d be paralyzed by indecision. And we’d quickly be some other critter’s lunch. Life comes at you fast: Vacillate and die.

Habits and heuristics

Instead, most of our behavior is effectively habitual. We learn from experience over our lifetimes that certain behaviors are profitable or appropriate in certain situations – these are the heuristics that subconsciously guide most of our actions. And our behavior is even shaped by our ancestor’s experiences, in the sense that we have inherited a suite of genetically determined behavioral tendencies that were adaptive in the environments and scenarios that our ancestors tended to find themselves in in the past.

Now, some people argue that if we can’t make decisions that are completely divorced from any preceding events, effects, or causes, that we are not really completely free at all. But why would we want to do that? Totally free decisions, uninformed by any prior events, would be essentially random and pointless (and highly likely to get you killed sooner or later).

Being free – to my mind at least – doesn’t mean making decisions for no reasons, it means making them for your reasons. Indeed, I would argue that this is exactly what is required to allow any kind of continuity of the self. If you were just doing things on a whim all the time, what would it mean to be you? We accrue our habits and beliefs and intentions and goals over our lifetime, and they collectively affect how actions are suggested and evaluated.

Whether we are conscious of that is another question. Most of our reasons for doing things are tacit and implicit – they’ve been wired into our nervous systems without our even being aware of them. But they’re still part of us ­– you could argue they’re precisely what makes us us. Even if most of that decision-making happens subconsciously, it’s still you doing it.

Ultimately, whether you think you have free will or not may depend less on the definition of “free will” and more on the definition of “you." If you identify just as the president – the decider-in-chief – then maybe you’ll be dismayed at how little control you seem to have or how rarely you really exercise it. (Not never, but maybe less often than your ego might like to think).

But that brings us back to a very dualist position, identifying you with only your conscious mind, as if it can somehow be separated from all the underlying workings of your brain. Perhaps it’s more appropriate to think that you really comprise all of the machinery of , even the bits that the president never sees or is not even aware exists.

That machinery is shaped by our shared evolutionary past, by each individual’s genetic heritage, by the particular trajectories of development of their brain, and by their accumulated experiences over their lifetime. Those things all shape the way we tend to behave in any given circumstance. That doesn’t mean we can never exercise deliberative and conscious control over our decisions – just that most of the time we don’t (in part because most of the time we don’t need to).

Can we choose not to be a certain way? No, probably not. But can we choose to act in a certain way despite having opposing tendencies – yes, absolutely, in some circumstances at least. This may be effortful – it may require habits of introspection and a high degree of self-awareness and – but it can clearly be done. In fact, one of the strongest pieces of evidence that we really do have free will is that some people seem to have more of it than others.

====== 241 ========

HOW SCHOOLS THWART PASSIONS

This post is a somewhat modified version of the transcript of a TEDx talk I delivered in May, 2018.

Follow your passions. That’s what almost every commencement speaker says to the new graduates. It’s almost cruel. If all you’ve been doing is school and school-like stuff, how do you have any idea what your passions might be or how to follow them? To find and follow your passions you need lots of time and freedom to play. Play, almost by definition, IS following your passions. But we’ve pretty much removed play from young people’s lives.

Source: Max Pixel. Creative Commons

Over the past several decades we’ve continuously increased the amount of time that children spend at school, and at schoolwork at home, and at school-like activities outside of school. We’ve turned into a time of résumé building. You don’t build passions by building a résumé, trying to impress other people. You build passions by doing what you , regardless of what others think. It’s no surprise that people who are famous for their passionate achievements have often declared their dislike or even hatred of school. For quotes about schooling from 50 such people, see here.

Wounded by School

Some years ago, Kirsten Olson, who was then a Harvard graduate student, began to conduct research on the ways that highly successful people were inspired by their experiences at school. She hoped to document how passions were kindled by school. But her early findings led her to turn that thesis around by 180 degrees. The book that eventually came out of that work is entitled Wounded by School. [For my review of the book, see here.] Here is quotation from the book’s forward, written by her thesis advisor Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot: "In her first foray into the field--in-depth interviews with an award-winning architect, a distinguished professor, a writer, a executive--Olson expected to hear stories of joyful and productive learning…. Instead, she discovered the shadows of pain, disappointment, even in their vivid recollections of schooling. Instead of the light she expected, she found darkness.And their stories did not merely refer to old wounds now healed; they recalled deeply embedded wounds that still bruised and ached, wounds that still compromised and distorted their sense of themselves as persons and professionals."

Since the time when Olson’s respondents would have been in school, school has become even more oppressive. Recess has been reduced or removed. Creative activities have been largely removed from the curriculum. Homework has been increased. All in the name of improving scores on multiple-choice, one-right-answer standardized tests. The results of all this are not surprising. Research has shown that over these same decades, creative thinking has declined at all grade levels (here); and , , and among young people have increased (here and here). A 2014 survey by the American Psychological Association found that were the most people in America, and 83% of them attributed their stress to school (here). These are not conditions that promote the development of passionate interests.

My brother Fred

Now I’m going to switch to something happier, and tell you about my youngest brother Fred Carlson. His last name is different from mine because he has a different father. Fred is 12 years younger than me, so he started 1st grade in public school the same year I started college. He lasted there through 4th grade. Around that time my mother became something of a hippie and moved onto a Vermont commune with my younger brothers. Fred left public school then and attended a little free school, which my mother helped to start. The school had no imposed curriculum and he could do there whatever he wished.

That school wasn’t certified as a high school, however, so, at age 14, he enrolled in 9th grade at the local public school. On his second day there the principal told him, “We don’t like you hippie types around here.” So he left and never went back. Then, with no school, he hung around the commune for a couple of years and helped to build a house. He got interested in wood and carpentry. He also got interested in music and learned to play guitar and banjo.

When he was 16 he enrolled in a publicly supported program designed for high-school dropouts. The guy who ran the program asked him what he’d like to do, and he said, “I’d like to build a banjo.” Nobody there knew anything about instrument building, but the head of the program helped Fred find a local person, a guy named Ken, who had a woodworking shop and knew just a little about banjo building. And so, with Ken’s help, Fred built a banjo. After that, Fred used the small sum of money that his father had saved for his to take a 6-week course at a guitar-building school and to purchase the equipment he needed to set up his own shop. The rest is history.

Source: Fred Carlson, Beyond the Trees

By the time Fred was 21 years old, one of his beautiful guitars was on display at the Smithsonian Museum. Ever since then he’s continued to make one instrument after another, each one different from any of the others; each one a new invention. He is famous among luthiers for his artistry, , and craftsmanship. (For one example, see the inserted photo; for other examples, see here.) Fred believes, and so do I, that if he had stayed in school he would never have found his passion.

Self-Directed Education as the Pursuit of Passions

I’ve spent part of my academic researching the outcomes of Self-Directed Education—that is, outcomes for people who did not go to a curriculum-based school, but, instead, educated themselves by pursuing their own interests. These include, many years ago, a study of the graduates of the Sudbury Valley School, in Massachusetts, where students, from age 4 on through late teenage years, are free all day to pursue their own interests; and, more recently, a study of grown unschoolers (see here and here). Unschoolers are people who for legal purposes are homeschoolers, but are not bound by a curriculum and are continuously free to pursue their own interests. The most interesting finding, for our concern now, is that a high percentage of these young adults were pursuing careers that were direct extensions of passionate interests they had developed as children in play. Here are a few examples:

A girl who loved to play with boats went on, as a teenager, to apprentice herself to a ship captain and then became captain, herself, of a cruise ship.

Another young girl played with dolls, as many girls do. Then she started making doll clothes; then clothes for herself and her . At the time of our study she was head of a pattern-making department in the high-fashion dress industry.

A boy was passionate about all kinds of constructive play. He would make whole villages and factories, to scale, out of modeling clay. As a teenager he’d hang around local garages and learn about automobile mechanics by asking and watching. At the time of the study he was a much sought-after machinist and inventor.

Another child fell in love with science fiction. Through that he discovered mathematics and became passionate about it. He went on to become a math professor.

Still another was obsessed with computers as a teenager. At the time of the study he was 22 years old and founder and head of a very successful software development company

A girl fell in love with circuses when she was 3 years old and began training to become a performer at age 5. By the time she was a teenager she was performing professionally as a trapeze artist, and from age 19-24 she and her best friend founded and ran their own contemporary circus company.

A boy became passionate about making YouTube vides with friends at age 11. In his teens he began to study filmmaking. His experience and passion led him to be hired, at age 18, as production assistant by a major film company. At age 20, at the time of the survey, he was working with a famous director in Los Angeles on the production of a major film.

A boy by age 15 was pursuing three passionate interests—wilderness hiking, paragliding, and photography. At age 21, at the time of the survey, he was successfully pursuing a career as an aerial wilderness photographer, combining all three of his passions.

A girl who had previously been in a traditional school revolted, at age 13, and left school never to return. She then developed passionate interests in art, revolutions, and wildlife. At the time of the survey, at age 28, she was a full-time Greenpeace activist, fundraiser, and manager.

Source: Molly and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack and Kerry McDonald, with permission

Source: Jack MacDonald, with permission

Source: Marley and Akilah Richards, with permission

These are just some of the many examples documented in my research. All of these people were able to discover and pursue their passions because they had left, or had never enrolled in, a curriculum-based school.

More recently I asked some of my unschooling friends about their young children’s passions. Here are three examples of what I learned:

Kerry McDonald’s daughter Molly has several passionate interests, one of which is baking. When someone asked her, when she was 9 or 10 years old, what she wanted to be when she grew up, she replied: “A baker, but I already am one." One thing I’ve learned is that people on the Self-Directed Education path don’t divide life into a period of preparing for the future followed by a period of living that future. They don’t distinguish between learning and living or learning and doing. That’s true when they are children and it’s still true when they are adults.

Molly’s younger brother Jack is heavily into photography. He particularly admires and emulates the work of the famous landscape photographer Ansel Adams. I’ve attached one of Jack’s artistic photographs, called “reflections.”

Akilah Richards’s daughter Marley has a beautiful voice and is deeply into voice acting. By age 13 she already had gigs providing the voice for animations and fan fiction audios. Her voice acting has also led her to learn Japanese, because some of the works she most enjoys were produced in Japan. By age 14 she was tutoring another young person in Japanese.

The great advantage that these young people have in life is this: They are not going to school.

So, How Does School Thwart Passions?

It’s almost too obvious. Schools thwart passions by:

Requiring everyone to do the same things at the same time. It’s not possible for all the children in a room to be passionately interested in the same thing at the same time. Replacing intrinsic with extrinsic motivators, such as grades and trophies. To pursue a passion you have to focus on what YOU want to do, not try to impress others or win honors. Threatening students with failure or , which generates . Fear freezes the mind into rigid ways of thinking and negates the possibility of passionate interest. Teaching that there is one right answer to every question, or one right way to do what you are supposed to do. That’s a surefire way to nip any possible emerging interest in the bud. Teaching children that learning is work and that play, at best, is just a break from learning. But anyone involved in a passionate interest knows that play and learning and work are one and the same.

So, in conclusion, if we want our children to grow up with passionate interests, we must find alternatives to school. Or, at least, we must reduce the role of school and school-like activities in their lives and increase greatly their opportunities to discover and do what they like to do—that is, to play.

What has been your experience with finding and pursuing a passionate interest? Are you one of the lucky ones whose career is a manifestation of passion and play? How did you discover that passion? This blog is in part a forum for discussion, so please share your comments, questions, and stories in the comments section below.

====== 242 ========

IS SOCIAL MEDIA PDA A SIGN OF HAPPINESS OR OVERCOMPENSATION?

Source: John Jones via flickr | CC0 License

We all know those people on social who are constantly posting information about their relationship. Sometimes, we might think, "Oh, that's sweet," if we know and like the couple. Other times, we might find ourselves rolling our eyes and thinking, "Stop showing off and overcompensating." So, are these couples actually happy and our eye-rolling is the function of or disbelief? Or are they really overcompensating?

People often are suspicious of those who share a lot of relationship information on social media. Research has shown that people dislike those who post over-the-top, affectionate social media messages about their partners. Yet, the majority of research actually shows that people who have a couple profile photo, are "Facebook official," or post about their relationship tend to be more satisfied with their relationships than those who do not engage in all this showing off. People are often surprised to hear this, as it goes against their intuitions about couples who frequently post about their relationships.

However, if you step back, it makes sense that happy couples post relationship content on social media. Imagine a couple that is in a committed, happy relationship. They are more likely to have linked profiles and to be a committed couple unit that might post a couple or family photo as a profile photo. They are likely to spend a lot of time together, spend holidays together, and take vacations together. If this couple is moderately active on social media, then they will share photos of social gatherings, holidays, and vacations, which will naturally include each other. So it shouldn't be surprising at all that these kinds of social media posts are associated with higher satisfaction and commitment. In my own research, conducted with two of my former undergraduate students, Amanda Havens and Dayana Petrenko, and Michael Langlais at University of Nebraska-Kearney, we wanted to address the discrepancy between two contradictory intuitions:

The notion (backed by research) that sharing one's relationship on social media is a sign of a happy and committed relationship. The notion that sharing one's relationship on social media implies trouble and may involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship.

In two studies, recently published in Psychology of Popular Media Culture, we surveyed a total of 348 adult users about how they used Facebook in their . We asked them to rate how frequently they engaged in general displays of the relationship, such as posting photos or status updates about their relationship or partner. These questions were similar to the types of behaviors assessed in previous research. We also assessed what we called "excessive relationship displays," those that went beyond the kind of relationship displays that these individuals engage in offline. Specifically, we asked how often participants posted:

Potentially embarrassing information about their partner or relationship.

Content on their partner's wall that they would be uncomfortable to say in person.

Content that showed more affection than they normally show in public.

We found that excessive displays were much less common than general relationship displays. We also found that even though they were correlated with each other, the way they related to satisfaction was quite different. As past research has found, general relationship posts were associated with greater satisfaction. So people who have a couple profile photograph and post photos and statuses about their relationships tend to be more satisfied than those who infrequently engage in those behaviors. But excessive displays were associated with less satisfaction. So people who post relationship information that they deem as potentially embarrassing or that shows more affection than they are comfortable expressing in person were actually less satisfied.

In the second study, we also asked participants to rate the extent to which they felt that Facebook had made them feel closer to and more intimate with their partners. Once again, we saw a positive effect for general relationship displays. Those who posted more relationship information on Facebook felt that Facebook helped bring them closer to their partners. Overall, excessive displays were not related to these perceptions. However, for people who were especially low in relationship satisfaction, posting excessive displays was associated with perceptions that Facebook had brought them closer. This suggests that these types of over the top displays are being used to compensate for weaker relationships. First, those who are less satisfied may post Facebook content that shows levels of affection that they aren't displaying in their actual offline relationship. These individuals then believe that engaging in these types of posts has helped their relationship. It's not clear if it actually has this helpful effect on their relationships. It is possible it has no effect or is even harmful. We would need to follow people's relationships over the long-term and to find out how their partners react to their Facebook activity in order to understand the actual consequences of these posts.

These findings demonstrate the paradoxical of social media and its relation to feelings of social connection. In a series of studies published in 2011, Kennon Sheldon and colleagues found that frequent use of Facebook was associated with both feeling connected to others and also feeling disconnected from others. Their explanation for these seemingly contradictory findings is that Facebook can make people feel more connected to others, but it is also the case that those who are feeling disconnected may turn to Facebook to seek out social connections that they are lacking. Something similar may be happening in the case of romantic relationships. People who are less satisfied with their relationships may engage in excessive displays on social media in order to bring them closer to their partners, and social media displays may also help people feel closer to their partners.

Returning to the two competing intuitions raised at the beginning of this post: 1) Relationship posts are an indication of a happy relationship, or, 2) relationship posts involve overcompensation for an unhappy relationship. Our research suggests that both are true. The types of displays that simply involve sharing photos and information about one's relationship may indicate higher levels of satisfaction. However, when someone's relationship displays on Facebook reflect more affection than they show offline, it is likely that they are in a less satisfying relationship.

====== 243 ========

HOW TO DECIDE WHETHER TO MARRY

is often wonderful. Many people swear by it.

It’s also bizarre. You’re electing to commit to lifelong devotion, to feeling like wanting to accommodate another person forever no matter who they turn out to be over time.

Having children is elective too, though more like electing to enter an arranged marriage. You get the child that your arrange for you.

In marriage, you’re volunteering to throw all in with someone of your choosing, which, when you stop to think about it, is rash. If instead, you were committing to lifelong devotion to a , you’d be joining a cult.

Looks play a big part in many marriage decisions. Looks are a convincing, often life-altering optical illusion. Nothing appears more eternal than youthful hotness. Yet nothing is quite so perishable.

No wonder marriage is so heavily subsidized by and culture, our bodies insisting on it, our culture extolling it. If it weren’t, we’d never make such a radical commitment. People don’t just marry drunk in Las Vegas. Many marriages are made under the intoxicating influence of hormonal conviction and subtle, yet wall-to-wall social pressure. Still, marriage can be a wonderful thing.

in search of a lifelong partner is bound to make us ambivalent. We’re deciding to stop deciding about someone, in effect, to trust them forever. We’re pouring over details of another person to decide whether we can stop pouring over details and just love them.

Intoxicating hormones have to convince us to overlook lots because we’d otherwise be too cautious. And by now, with less social pressure to marry, our cautiousness gets expressed. We size each other up warily, more in line with what you’d expect from such a humongous decision.

So how best to decide whether to marry in times like these? Here are some tips, with some application to any big decision.

1. It’s the matrimony, stupid.

Courtship wariness can breed meta-wariness, wariness about each other’s wariness. Either of you might begin to suspect the other of “ of intimacy,” or of being ungenerous, paranoid, controlling, , needy, greedy, expecting too much, moving too quickly or moving too slowly, any of which may be true but isn’t necessarily. All of those characteristics are perfectly natural for two people doing this dance on the courtship tightrope before deciding whether to fall toward or away from each other, committing to each other for life or breaking up.



If you both enter into the courtship knowing that you’re on the tightrope, you’re less likely to take the jitters and jerks of the dance as personally, mistaking each other’s caution or zeal for a character flaw. It’s not you or your partner but the humongous commitment your considering making that’s giving you the jitters.

2. Fighting is a red flag; not fighting is even more dangerous.

Kids bicker. It drives their crazy but serves a purpose. They’re learning what works and doesn’t work in the give and take of life. Chalk it up to practice.

Courting couples have to learn how to fight too, learning how to minimize fighting in your give and take. You’re learning where to tuck in or jut out your elbows for the most efficient give and take. You’re also assessing whether you can tolerate the bickering that you probably won’t be able to eliminate. You’re -testing the relationship, which is much smarter done before than after taking your vows.

Again, if you both recognize that this is part of the courtship dance, you’re less likely to escalate into meta-fights – fights about the fact that you fight. As a result, you’re more likely to get a clear reading on what kinds of compromises you’ll have to make if you commit to marriage.

3. Throwing all in to see whether you want to throw all in.

Courtship in general, not just the bickering, is practice marriage, a tentative commitment which is a necessary but complicating oxymoron. You’re both mustering your most enthusiastic effort to determine whether you want to muster you most enthusiastic effort ‘til death do you part. You don’t want to buy marriage until you’ve tried it and you can’t try it ‘til you’ve acted as though you’ve already bought it. So you act like you’ve bought it and see how it goes. You pledge love to see whether you want to pledge love.



You have to. You’ve got to find out whether throwing all in compels your partner to reciprocate or get complacent. You give an inch hoping to discover that your partner will give an inch rather than taking a mile. If your partner takes a mile, run a mile. Get out before it’s too late. But in the testing, test earnestly. Really show up, to see whether you really want to show up forever.

4. In stress-testing the relationship, take pride in your strategic cleverness instead of taking self-protective umbrage.

Showing up is easier said than done, what with your understandable wariness about what you might be getting yourself into. It’s easy to feel compromised by partnership. Romance is the dream that you can just be yourself and loved unconditionally. Courtship starts with romance but moves on to something less dreamy, more realistic. You can’t just be yourself. You have to tuck in your elbows to make room for each other. If you pretend that courtship is like any other no-big-deal decision, you’ll feel surprised, insulted or threatened by the compromises – injured pride. That will throw off your assessment.

The alternative is to take quiet pride in your strategic cleverness. Pat yourself on the back for bending over backward for your partner. Pretty cunning. It’s you skillfully testing how your partner responds. If you decide that bending over that much is not worth it, at least you’ll have the consolation of thoroughness which you wouldn’t get if hurt pride makes you stingy.

5. Leave out of it.

Though your culture might imply that marriage is an easy, obvious, natural virtue it isn’t. These days, it’s an optional preference, a lifestyle choice, not a moral imperative. You don’t have to marry. If you choose that lifestyle you’re under moral obligations within it. But you’re not under obligation to choose the lifestyle.

You are, however, under moral obligation to decide whether you want it. These days, the residues of our culture’s marriage imperative still have people feeling obligated to marry when their hearts aren’t really into it. Don’t be like that. Know your heart as best you can. To go through the motions of wanting to marry because you’re still under the influence yesteryear’s moral mandate is like the closeted gay entering hetero . It’s unkind to the person you’re courting.



Also, in the practice bickering, moral mandates get tossed around. If you’re unwilling to do something for your partner, he or she might imply that you’re ungenerous, selfish or greedy, even narcissistic.

You might be, but courtship is a lousy test for whether you are. You’re testing your willingness to give all to someone forever. If you’re unwilling, it doesn’t prove that you’ve got some fatal character flaw. Despite what you hear from exes, not every person who pulls out of partnership is a narcissist. Deciding you don’t want to give all to someone forever might merely mean that you want to give elsewhere.

6. Rehearse a story that would rationalize each outcome.

As with any big decision, you’re going to feel a lot of tugs. “I can’t choose that. How would I ever justify that decision?” For example, “I can’t pull out of this courtship. It would prove that I’m ungenerous.” Or, “I can’t marry. How would I ever explain dropping my pledge to protect my independence?”

To neutralize those subconscious tugs, treat those questions as real, not rhetorical. For each possible choice, rehearse something you could say to justify it to you, some answer to some friend’s “what happened there?”

It doesn’t have to convince your friend who is likely to support and you whatever you decide, but something that would be convincing enough to you. Armed with an armful of self-justifications, one for each choice you might make, you can make the decision without subconscious tugs biasing your decision.

====== 244 ========

NOVEMBER 17 - 23

November 17 - 23

It's the start of the holiday season, instead of madly consuming, try a little quiet reading with these essays. See what the experts have to say about the mental health of college students, the usefulness of regret, whether "our" universe was made for us, and more.

====== 245 ========

THE COLLEGE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS (UPDATE)

In 2014, I wrote a series on the college student mental health crisis, what may be causing it, and what we might be able to do about it. I receive more inquiries and requests for interviews about this topic than anything else. Because I have explored this issue in more depth, I decided the time was right for an update.

What, exactly, is the “college student mental crisis?” It refers to the fact that (a) significant numbers of college students experience mental health problems (between a quarter and a third at any given time), and (b) over the past 15 to 20 years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the demand for mental health services on college campuses.

To give one example of the numbers we are talking about, last month a research report came out that found rates of “past year treatment" had risen from 19% in 2007 to 34% in 2017. In addition, students with lifetime diagnoses increased from 22% in 2007 to 36% in 2017. The trend lines in these categories had been moving up steadily through the 1990s. Here, then, is the nutshell summary of the crisis:

In the 1980s, at any given point, perhaps 1 in 10 college students could be readily characterized as needing/wanting/using some form of mental health treatment. Now that number is 1 in 3, with trend lines rising.

Here is the $64,000 question about these numbers: What is really going on? Are we seeing an “epidemic” of mental illness racing through the country? Or are we seeing a shift in attitudes, definitions, and the expectation of, availability of, and willingness to seek mental health treatment? My opinion is that the primary cause is a change in attitudes and use, with an important secondary cause being an actual increase in emotional fragility and distress (and thus an increase in and depressive conditions).

The first point is certainly true. That is, there have been major changes how people think about mental health and major increases in folks’ willingness to use mental health services. This attitude change is clearly one major reason for the difference. Some scholars argue that attitude change and a willingness to seek treatment is the only reason for the shift. In this interpretation of the crisis, people were suffering with mental illness in the 1980s and '90s at similar rates as they are now, but they were much less likely to talk about their problems openly and much more reluctant to seek treatment (perhaps because of stigma) or had less knowledge or access to do so.

Fellow PT blogger Todd Kashdan, a psychologist for whom I have much respect, recently made this case. He acknowledged that students are in some ways more sensitive and prone to anxiety, but argued against an epidemic of mental illness. He offered data from three sources that suggest that mental health problems have not gotten worse. For example, a major National Co-morbidity Study found that just about 30% of people surveyed between 1990-1992 had a mental health condition and almost the exact same percentage was found in those surveyed between 2000-2002. However, despite similar base rates, the numbers of folks who sought treatment had almost doubled in the same period. Ronald Pies has made a similar argument, namely that what has changed is treatment-seeking behavior, rather than actual levels of mental illness.

Although their arguments are important, the data they report are not the only data on this topic. I see a number of indicators that things have actually gotten worse, especially when we look at this generation and data in the last decade.

Some general population level data do suggest fairly stable trend lines (such as those reports offered by Kashdan and Pies). At the same time, there are some data suggesting general levels of well-being and happiness in the country as a whole are decreasing somewhat. It is clear that we are witnessing disturbing trends in some specific populations in the U.S. For example, we have definitely seen substantial increases in rates of suicide, substance misuse, and depression in certain demographics, such as middle age, lower-class whites.

Trend lines in adolescents and young adults also show evidence of increases in psychopathology. Jean Twenge has been tracking cohort data carefully and has found significant changes in stress, depression and anxiety. The NIMH has found an increase in the frequency of Major Depressive Disorder diagnoses in adolescents. The rate was 7.9% in 2006 and jumped to 12.8% in 2016. That is almost a 50% increase, based on good diagnostic assessments (not service utilization). The suicide rate for adolescents and young adults (per 100,000 people) also has seen a jump. It was 9.9 in 2006 and 13.5 in 2016. Again, about a 50% increase in the past decade. These are substantial changes and are not self-report or treatment-use data.

A similar pattern is found if we compare college student self-report data on feeling distress. The American College Health Association puts out an annual report based on large surveys of college students. I pulled scores from 2008 and compared them to scores in 2017 on feeling overwhelming anxiety, , , and ideation, both in the past two weeks and in the past year.

Source: Gregg Henriques

Source: Gregg Henriques

As depicted in these graphics, we see a substantial increase in rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and some increase in loneliness.

In sum, there are a number of data pointing to actual increases in rates of mental illness/distress. The strongest data point to this being a generational phenomenon with increases in children, adolescents and young adults emerging since the 2000s. I should comment here that this is not something that has to do with college students per se. That is, there is not much reason to suppose that college students would be worse off in terms of mental health than those who don’t go to college.

The take-home message is this: The college student mental health crisis refers to the massive increase in treatment-seeking in college students. Whereas perhaps 10% were self-identified and seeking treatment in the 1980s, now approximately 33% are. This massive rise is likely a function of both more accepting attitudes about reporting distress and seeking and receiving treatment, and actual increases in , anxiety, and depression and other related problems.

There are no signs of this abating. Indeed, when I spoke about the trend with Dr. David Onestak, the Director of the Counseling Center at James Madison University, he made the point that we should no longer call it a "crisis" because it has been going on for more than a decade and does not appear to be slowing down. Rather, this distressing state of affairs seems to be the “new normal.”

My next post will be on why things have changed and will offer some resources for what we should be doing about it.

====== 246 ========

WHAT TO DO WITH FEELINGS OF REGRET

One of the most frequently experienced emotions is regret. Feelings of regret can stem from looking back on past behaviors and decisions and believing that a better outcome may have occurred if a different choice was made. Topics that seem to elicit the most regret are , , romance, , self, and leisure (Newall, Chipperfield, Daniels, Hladkyj, & Perry, 2009; Roese & Summerville, 2005).

When having regret, a person can experience emotional, , and neurophysiological effects. Regret is often accompanied by other negative emotions such as , disappointment, self-blame, and frustration. In addition, people frequently engage in cognitive exercises trying to understand why they made a poor decision or acted as they did, and what other choices they could have made to reap a better outcome. Moreover, regret activates certain areas of the cortex region of the (viz., lateral orbitofrontal, dorsomedial prefrontal).

Researchers differ as to what stimulates regret. Some argue that “opportunity breeds” regret—meaning that regret is strongest under conditions when a “correction” action exists (the “opportunity principle”). For example, many people experience regret over the extent of their education; yet, the opportunity to rectify this “deficit” remains open for most people. It is the availability that spurs regret.

An argument for supporting the “opportunity principle” is that there are few rationalizations that can effectively diminish the “stewing” of regret because actions that can address it are still accessible. Under this theory, feelings of regret will continue until a corrective action is taken (Roese & Summerville, 2005).

Other researchers, however, believe that feelings of regret are more likely to occur and more prominent under situations when there is no opportunity to rectify the decision or action (Beike, Markman, & Karadogan, 2009). That is, the opportunity that existed before and was not taken advantage of is now lost. It can be argued that age is a factor which can affect available opportunities. Theoretically, education can be obtained at any age; however, it is not as easy for older aged individuals. Similarly, finding romance late in life is more difficult than when one is younger, and the field is more open.

Excuses can be of little help in assuaging the pain of regret when little to no opportunity exists to correct the person’s poor decision or behavior (e.g., because of time or scarce resources). People may berate themselves for letting an opportunity pass by that cannot be obtained later.

Regret can be an aversive emotion impacting life-satisfaction. However, if regret is confronted appropriately, it can have a positive effect. Regret can lead to a retrospective analysis that may help people understand the reason why they thought or acted as they did. At that time, there may have been a specific reason. By making sense of their past thoughts or actions, individuals may:

Feel less pain, remorse, and self-condemnation.

Change their thoughts and behavior to that which will now lead to a desired outcome.

Learn from their mistakes and incorporate this into their subsequent decisions and actions.

More specifically, what can people do to accentuate the positive and reduce the negative effects of regret? Newall et al., (2009) and Bjälkebring, Västfjäll, Svenson, & Slovic (2016) offer some of the following suggestions:

Do not let feelings of regret “eat you up" Engage in and do not allow regret to become overwhelming If necessary, suppress the feelings

Do not repeat in your mind “if only” thinking Accept what happened and come to terms with it Accept that there are some instances or events that are out of your control Accept that no life can be lived without regrets

Do not exaggerate personal responsibility and harbor great self-blame

Forecast regret By preparing yourself, it may lessen the surprise and pain

Look for the benefits that derive from regret. How did it encourage you to Better understand yourself Make yourself a better person

Overcome feelings of regret by doing reparative actions Apologize to those you hurt Do not procrastinate in correcting your poor judgment or action Consider opportunities more fully and take advantage of those you might otherwise have let slip by

Instead of focusing on the negative outcomes of regret, be more mindful of how regret has stimulated Learning from experience Growth and positive changes in you



Regret is an emotional mechanism. If one ruminates on lost opportunities, then regret becomes maladaptive and can stymie growth. On the other hand, if regret reminds us that our time is short and that opportunities may be transitory, it helps us strive for a life well-lived.

====== 247 ========

A UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? STATISTICS AND THE MULTIVERSE

In parts one and two of this four-part series, I looked at the vexed question of whether the universe was somehow – and by Someone – fine-tuned for us. There may not be a genuine, no-nonsense, unequivocal answer, but there is much to be learned by merging statistics, logic, and common sense, especially when it comes to the difference between probabilities before and after an event, and much head-scratching occasioned by the multiverse hypothesis.

For example, philosopher Niall Shanks asks us to imagine shuffling a deck of cards and then dealing them out, face down. What is the likelihood that someone could predict the entire sequence, in advance, and without any hanky-panky? The chance of getting the first card correct is 1 in 52. The chance of getting the first two cards correct is 1/52 x 1/51 = 1/2652, and so on, so that the probability of guessing the entire deck in the proper order is 1/52!. (The notation "!” in mathematics is described as “factorial,” with 52! = 52 x 51 x 50 ... x 1.) This is an unimaginably small number, something like one in ten followed by 60 zeros. And yet, it is also true that the chance of the cards having been dealt in the order that actually occurred is 100 percent. They had to come out some way, and among the near-infinite number of possibilities, one in particular actually emerged. Is that astounding? Yes, if you concern yourself with the chance of that precise outcome before it happened. But no, if you look at the post-hoc outcome, knowing that it had to be one way or another.

Alternatively, consider the probabilities before versus after a simple physical event, such as the position of a golf ball before versus after a golfer hits it. It would take a near-miracle to identify, in advance, the precise eventual location of that ball. But the outcome – wherever the ball ends up – isn’t miraculous at all, nor is it evidence of divine intervention or of the golf course having been designed so as to arrange that particular eventual placement of the ball since it had to be somewhere. Even though any one specific location is extraordinarily unlikely, it is even less likely that the ball would have disappeared entirely, or had it landed atop the flat head of a hippo. For us to marvel at the fact of our existing (in a universe that permits that existence) is comparable to a golf ball being astounded at the fact that it ended up someplace.

There are many ways to interpret what might be called the unexpectedness of our existence, none of which necessarily supports the claim that we must attribute that existence to particular pre-planning, by the cosmos and for us. Every person exists because a particular egg (one out of roughly 500 ovulated by his or her mother over the latter's lifetime) encountered a particular sperm (one out of roughly 150 million produced by his or her father in a single ejaculation). Every member of the human population – roughly 7.5 billion – can, therefore, insist that his or her existence was fore-ordained, evidence of a kind of me-thropic principle.

For a more wide-ranging example, the Chicxulub asteroid crashed into what is today Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula 66 million years ago, eventually wiping out the dinosaurs and clearing a path for the rise of mammals and eventually, us. Without that impact and the ecological niches that were opened up by the demise of those previously dominant dinosaurs, it is extremely unlikely that our species would ever have evolved. Had things proceeded differently, the prospect is vanishingly smaller yet that I would be writing this blog, or that you would be reading it.

Should we therefore see the Chicxulub impact as further evidence that our planet was fine-tuned, with my writing and your reading in mind? And that the dinosaurs’ destruction was mere collateral damage en route to the ultimate goal of creating Homo sapiens roughly 65 million years later? If so, then we are responsible for that asteroid and were it not for the universe’s goal of producing us, T. rex and company would still be around. Mazel tov! We really are important!

Physics has additional possible explanations for what masquerades as cosmic fine-tuning. Of these, one of the more intriguing (albeit difficult to grasp) is the possibility of “multiverses,” which revisits the question of probabilities before versus after an event, albeit in somewhat different guise. Here is astrophysicist Martin Rees:

"There may be many “universes” of which ours is just one. In the others, some laws and physical constants would be different. But our universe would not be just a random one. It would belong to an unusual subset that offered a habitat conducive to the emergence of complexity and consciousness. The analogy of the watchmaker would be off the mark. Instead, the cosmos may have something in common with an off-the-rack clothes shop: if the shop has a large stock, we are not surprised to find one suit that fits. Likewise, if our universe is selected from a multiverse, its seemingly designed or fine-tuned features would not be surprising.[i]."

Under the multiverse hypothesis, there is not only a potentially infinite number of universes, but the basic physical laws and constants might well vary across them. It is a radically difficult concept, but perhaps no weirder than basic quantum mechanics, which we now know to be valid. It was recently reported that there are something like two trillion galaxies in the currently known universe, which is about 20 times more than had previously been thought.[ii] Each galaxy consists of millions – in some cases, billions – of stars, many of which have their own planets. And although it appears that the fundamental physical constants hold across the known galaxies, the mere fact that there are so many (the overwhelming majority of which are not in any meaningful sense “known”) opens the possibility that our Earthly experience may be a small subset of the possible – even without introducing the prospect of multiple universes.

Niall Shanks suggests that the multiverse hypothesis “does to the anthropic universe what Copernicus’s heliocentric hypothesis did to the cosmological vision of the Earth as a fixed center of the universe.”[iii] Now, post-Copernicus (and Kepler, Galileo and others), the Earth is known to be just one planet among many, in one galaxy among many. Perhaps we’re just the occupants of one universe among many. Interestingly, even as he demoted the Earth, Copernicus himself placed the Sun in the center of the universe, just as he assumed that planetary orbits were perfect circles, an assumption that was widespread in early astronomy, based on the notion that the “heavenly bodies” are necessarily perfect, just as, in their geometry, circles are perfect. Galileo, too, assumed that planetary orbits were circular; it wasn’t until Kepler – using data from the aforementioned Tycho Brahe - that astronomers recognized they are elliptical. The cosmos, like the human body, is far from perfect. But like the human body and the bodies of all other organisms, it is good enough to have permitted us and them to exist.

In my next and final post on the question of whether the universe is anthropic, we’ll take a look at quantum weirdness, along with other weirdnesses.

David P. Barash is professor of psychology emeritus at the University of Washington. His most recent book relevant to this topic is Through a Glass Brightly: using science to see our species as we really are (2018, Oxford University Press).

[i] Martin Rees. 2001. Our Cosmic Habitat. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[ii] .com/news/universe-has-ten-times-more-galaxies-than-researchers-thought-1.20809

[iii] Niall Shanks. 2004. God, the Devil, and Darwin. New York: Oxford University Press.

====== 248 ========

HOW MANY FACES DO YOU KNOW?

Source: TZIDO SUN/Shutterstock

Throughout our lives, we commit faces to . We can recall classmates from elementary school, neighbors who share our morning commute, and the actors in our favorite television shows. But how many of those faces are stashed in a permanent mental repository?

Researchers at the University of York sought to pin down that number—estimating that people know an average of 5,000 faces. And that figure simply represents the number of faces we might know, not the number we are capable of knowing.

“We may not have an upper limit for face learning,” says Rob Jenkins, the lead author of the study, which was published in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The thousands of faces we commit to memory may only be the tip of the iceberg for this mental capacity.

Jenkins and his colleagues asked 25 participants, between 18 and 61 years old, to list people whose faces they would clearly recognize. The researchers helped by providing prompts to consider specific social niches, such as colleagues, of family, and retail staff. Participants also listed every famous figure they would recognize.

Next, the investigators showed participants a slideshow of famous faces and calculated a ratio based on the number of faces they recognized in the lineup and the number of famous faces they had initially said they would recognize. (This was not done with non-famous faces, since it wasn’t feasible to collect photos of them.) Applying that ratio to participants' self-generated lists of both famous and non-famous faces allowed the researchers to arrive at a final estimate.

The concluded that on average, participants’ minds held an inventory of roughly 5,000 faces. The capacity differed greatly between participants, ranging from 1,000 to 10,000. That variation may be due in part to the in which someone was raised—a rural or urban area, for example—as well as their level of exposure, Jenkins speculates.

As humans transitioned from living in small, tight-knit communities to a large, interconnected world, the ability for facial learning appears to be up to the task. “It seems that if you’re building equipment that allows you to differentiate between a couple of hundred individuals, in doing that you’re building apparatus that’s also good for several thousand,” Jenkins says. “Maybe you can’t achieve the former aim without incidentally gaining the additional capacity we use now.”

The collection of faces we know is impressive given that learning a new face requires observing and internalizing the same visage with various expressions, at different ages, and in assorted contexts. A face can look different when its owner puts on makeup, gets a haircut, ages five years, or appears in a darkened restaurant rather than a brightly lit room. “The key to learning each face is learning the person’s variability,” Jenkins says. “You have to be exposed to the way the face changes.” (Importantly, people generally tend to be poor at remembering faces they encountered only briefly, he says. That deficit becomes exceedingly important in legal or forensic situations, such as during eyewitness testimony.)

Identifying how many faces people recognize—and how those faces become familiar—is relevant for deficits of face perception, says Wilma Bainbridge, a post-doctoral researcher at the National Institute of Mental who studies the perception and memorability of images. For example, she suggests, face vocabulary could potentially be used as a marker of perceptual decline in the course of Alzheimer’s disease.

The also possesses a strong capacity for object memory, yet evidence suggests that faces require a unique form of processing, Bainbridge says. Humans are drawn to the geometry of faces from an early age: Research demonstrates that infants show a preference for an image of two dots above a third (which more closely mimics a face) compared to two dots below a third. Faces are also visually potent; another study found that photographs with faces were more memorable than those without faces, as measured by a computer game asking participants whether they had seen a given image before.

Evolutionary adaptiveness can help explain humans’ skill for face memory in particular. Faces that embody more emotion or threat are especially enduring, Bainbridge says. “It may be less important to know a familiar or unfamiliar place, because you can take time to explore,” Bainbridge says. “But it could be really important to pick out your friends and your enemies.”

====== 249 ========

PSYCHOLOGY TODAY

How do we make nudges work better, and for longer? By better characterizing the environment in which we want to improve the decisions people make.

====== 250 ========

WHY MANY WOMEN DON’T FEEL THANKFUL ON THANKSGIVING

Behind every beautiful thanksgiving dinner and touching family photograph lies hours and hours of hard labor, which probably was performed by a woman.

Now this is not true for every family. In some families, everyone contributes to planning, cleaning, cooking, and hosting. In other families, one person (often but not always a woman) does the bulk of the work but truly finds it a labor of . If one of those scenarios apply to you, or if you have a different way of celebrating (or not celebrating) the holiday that you enjoy, you might not find this post relevant.

However, if you are one of the many women who are overwhelmed and exhausted, and yet somehow have carved out the time to read this post, this one is for you.

To understand where we are today in terms of and the holidays, it’s helpful to think about the broader context of gender and (paid and unpaid) labor.

The US Department of Labor gathers data on who is working, how many hours, and where. In the 1960s, men and women actually worked about the same number of hours per week. However, men typically worked outside the home, and women typically worked inside the home. Since the 1960s, women have increased the number of hours that they work outside the home, and men have increased the number of hours that they work inside the home. However, the increases have not been at the same rate. The number of hours that women work outside the home has increased more than the number of hours that men work inside the home. This means that women are still doing more housework and childcare than men. This also means that the total number of hours worked per week (hours outside the home + hours inside the home) is greater for women then men. The difference is relatively small; women work about five hours more per week than men. Still, women would probably like those hours back. Across a month, this would add up to 20 hours that they could use however they wanted!

In fact, the data show that men typically devote their five extra hours each week to leisure. Like watching football on TV. Which brings us back to Thanksgiving…

With this in mind, it is not surprising that women do most of the work on Thanksgiving. They typically do most of the work at home, and the “traditional” of Thanksgiving probably exacerbates this. At Thanksgiving, people often want to do things like their did, and their grandparents did, which makes it even more likely that the work required to celebrate the holiday will fall to women.

Moreover, the extra work that women do is not limited to cooking and cleaning. Women also typically manage the social and emotional tone of the day. This is referred to as emotional labor. Sociologist Arlie Hochschlid coined this term in the context of the , but the term applies to the home as well. Examples include (but are not limited to): making sure that conservative Aunt Sally is not seated next to cousin Frank who’s studying at Berkley, getting all of the invitations out within a matter of minutes so that no one feels that they were invited last (and doing so without using social or texting because that would be tacky), and providing children with activities and entertainment that are neither boring nor overstimulating.

Is it really surprising, then, that many women do not feel all that on Thanksgiving? Sure, in the big picture they are thankful for their family and loved ones and the opportunity to be together. However, expecting a person who got up at 4am to stuff a cold turkey to be happy, relaxed, and feeling thankful at 4pm may not be realistic.

With that in mind, here are a few tips for the day.

1. Don’t pressure yourself to feel thankful. It’s ok not to feel all that thankful on Thanksgiving. Maybe you will feel thankful on a different, less hectic day instead. Mixed feelings also are allowed. Whatever you feel is valid and no one can take that away from you.

2. Make minor changes. If you typically do all of the heavy lifting on Thanksgiving, major changes are probably not going to happen in (literally) a day. However, delegate as much as you can, from setting the table to playing with small children so that they are not underfoot. You may think that asking for help with small things won’t make a difference, but it adds up.

3. Lay the groundwork for next year. If you want share responsibility for the holiday more equitably in the future, now is a good time to lay the groundwork. When people ask how you’re doing, it is ok to say that you are a little tired, stressed, etc. and that maybe next year you should not try to do it all yourself. Hopefully, this will plant a seed for change.

4. Plan a time just for you. Mark off at least an hour to do something that you want to after the celebration is over. Sitting down with a cup of tea or a glass of wine to read a book or enjoying a bubble bath are good choices. (Please note that your activity cannot be combined with something that you already planned to do for others, such as going for pedicures with your six nieces who range in age from preschool to high school). When things get hectic or stressful during the holiday, picture that moment when you will sit quietly with a book or slide into your bath.

5. Think about next year. When it is all over, spend some time thinking about what you would like to stay the same for next year and what you would like to change. Then, in the coming months, make time to talk honestly with others about this. Conversations about switching up who does what for the holidays will go more smoothly ahead of time than in the heat of the moment.

Time is getting short, and I should leave you now to bake pies and peel potatoes. To sign off, I will not say “Have a Happy Thanksgiving!!” to those of you feel stressed or overwhelmed. Instead, I will say that I hope that you can find some happy moments during your busy holiday. Good luck, ladies. And Godspeed!

Postscript: This post refers to how men and women spend their time on average, not to every man or woman. If you are a man, and are reading a Psychology Today post about how gender dynamics affect the division of labor on holidays, there is a good chance that you already are the type of guy who is doing his fair share preparing for the day. If that’s the case, make sure to get in on the tea, wine, or bubble bath when the day has come to an end….

====== 251 ========

MAN AND METAPHOR

Source: D. Erdmann & D. Blankenstein, mit freudnlicher Genehmigung

You can’t go home again. —Thomas Wolfe

Yes, you can. —Homer (implied)

The trope of going native is familiar and poorly understood (Krueger, 2017). Some hipsters and other adolescents take a playful transitional approach, experimenting with garb or hairdos before returning to the square & normative. When going native becomes a deeper project, what does it do to a person’s ? How does he [bear with me on the choice of ] see himself and how do others see him? How do these perceptions differ between the members of his original and his adopted group?

Alexander von Humboldt, though “interested in everything” famously resisted going native, while is friend Bonpland, a French botanist, did. Humboldt returned to his ancestral Berlin; Bonpland settled in Argentina, growing crops and fathering children. Humboldt, here above chilling poolside in Mérida, inspired a series of conferences, which explore psychological, sociological, historical, and literary aspects of travel. I signed up to discuss Gonzalo Guerrero.

Source: J. Krueger

In the Yucatán peninsula, Gonzalo Guerrero is the archetype of going native. More myth than man, we can’t be sure that he existed, but this is not essential to this story. We do know that he looms large in the Yucatec imagination. According to the Spanish chroniclers of the late 16th Century, who are less than completely reliable, Gonzalo was cast away on the shore now known as the Mayan Riviera, before rising to prominence among a Mayan group in the Chetumal region. He led them in war against their neighbors and then again against Spanish intruders, and he fathered the first generation of mestizos. For Gonzalo, going native was a survival strategy. The legends that have grown up around him emphasize his martial prowess, and various statues depict him as a warrior. His Spanish family name having been lost, Gonzalo is now remembered as Gonzalo Guerrero, Gonzalo the Warrior. A painting by Fernando Castro Pacheco, displayed in the Palacio del Gobierno in Mérida, highlights a different aspect (see photo to the left). Here, Gonzalo is seen clutching his family and looking vulnerable. The play of light enhances him and his psychological tension. His family remains in the shadows, perhaps to remind us of essential differences. This painting is remarkable in its departure from the Gonzalo’s iconic statuary representation. In stone, Gonzalo presents as strong, defiant, and bearded, but otherwise fully Mayanized. In the painting, we get a glimpse of going-native as a process ridden with conflict.

Oddly, psychological science has little to say about the concept of going native. Where are the theories and empirical studies? Research is squarely focused on issues of immigration, assimilation, dual consciousness, and bi- or multi-culturalism. Important as these issues are, they fail to plumb the experience of those individuals who penetrate an alien culture, thereby risking to be radically transformed. Social psychology, as a , has a tradition of focusing on the experience of disempowered groups. This concern may have created a blind spot for the concept of going native because – hipsters aside – this concept is tied to European expansion, domination, and colonialism. It is here that those who go native swim against a most powerful historical current. The default perception is to see these anadromous adventurers as traitors and savages-by-choice. In the subcontinental Indian context, for example, Kipling warned such types to “never forget that one is a Sahib” (cited in White, 2010).

It may be difficult to think of specific historical examples of individuals gone native, but it seems safe to say that the concept has a foothold in the European imagination; it evokes images and possibilities both alluring and forbidden. With reliable historical data being scarce, a handful of literary treatments drive the dominant narrative. At the extremes, we find characters like the Earl of Greystoke, whose natives are not even human, or the demonic Colonel Walter Kurtz, who loses his mind (“The horror!”). In our time of industrial cultural production, the threat and of going native is occasionally resolved by a hero who becomes a native to save the natives. John Dunbar dances with wolves to save the Lakota, and the disabled anti-hero Jake Sully in James Cameron’s Avatar scores a triumphant victory over white industrial man (Krueger, 2010). He achieves this victory by going native more fully than anyone before. He is embodied as one. Hence the Avatar.

There is an instructive difference here. Dunbar returns to the white man’s world, presumably in yet another attempt to do good for the natives, whereas Sully’s mind is eventually made to reside in the Avatar in permanencia. Dunbar reconnects with ‘home,’ whereas Sully cuts all ties. Sully drinks up the cup of going native. Dunbar, in other words, leans on the mythology of the Odyssey, where the trials and tribulations of life are eventually rewarded with a hero’s return (Humboldt), whereas Sully chooses irrevocable immersion (Bonpland). Gonzalo though, if he existed, was the real Avatar. Flores (2012) notes both visual and psychological similarities. Both the Avatar and Gonzalo fight on the side of and the natives against European expansion and destruction. Gonzalo loses in the short term, but re-emerges as the Urvater (first father) of a new ; the Avatar wins in a Hollywoodian happy ending, which must come as a decisive victory of good over evil.

Across the types of Tarzan, Kurtz, Costner, and the Avatar, we encounter key elements of the European imagination: the fascination with nature, and creatures living in harmony with it. The desire to have what they have, and to take it from them by force. Then, there is the of being overwhelmed by nature and the natives, of not being able to cope with their very different world, and to either die or be swallowed up. This is a form of ego anxiety ( , 1965/1933). The emotional base of European supremacy is ambivalent (Ullrich & Krueger, 2010).

Returning to Gonzalo, we must concede that we know very little about him. One man who became obsessed with Gonzalo is Canadian Professor of English Robert Calder, who after decades of searching for Gonzalo wrote a wonderful book to introduce us to the legend and the few bits of evidence that have been handed down (Calder, 2017; see also Fray Diego de Landa’s, 1566, summary). Gonzalo is not a capitan, he is a marinero. His ship sinks in a storm (Odysseus), and he and some shipmates wash up on the Yucatec shore. The local Maya capture and eat most of them, but they save Gonzalo and a few others to be fattened first and eaten later. Gonzalo and a padre by the name of Jerónimo de Aguilar escape and wind up with a friendlier group of Maya down near Chetumal. They are still slaves, but they manage to build trust and obtain privileges.

The plot thickens when Gonzalo’s and Jerónimo’s strategies diverge. Gonzalo goes native, while Jerónimo holds on to as much of his Spanish identity as he can. To Jerónimo, Catholicism and the Crown remain anchors, while Gonzalo transforms his body with tattoos and piercings. He could shave his beard, but, like another Mexican icon of the blessed imagination – the most interesting man in the world – he chooses not to. To these Maya, Gonzalo’s martial skills make him more valuable alive than dead. Nachán Ka’an, the cacique, uses him against his neighbors and later against the Spanish. Jerónimo has a harder time. He bets on total submission. One of his strategies is to convince his captors that he will not bother their women. They test his will by sending a beautiful girl to tempt him; Jerónimo resists – or so he says. As Gonzalo earns the chief’s trust, he is eventually made a captain (Nakom) to lead warriors, and given the hand of the chief’s daughter, Zazil Há. Gonzalo makes war and . From a sociological standpoint, his assimilation is now complete. He has gone fully native. From a psychological standpoint, certain questions remain. How has his identity, his self-conception changed? Can we even know?

Jerónimo is our only source, and perhaps he made it all up. When Cortés lands in the Yucatán, Jerónimo tells him that there is another Spaniard in the selva. Cortés tells Jerónimo to fetch him, and Jerónimo goes and pleads with Gonzalo to return to the Spanish banner. Gonzalo declines, pointing to his commitments, some of which (e.g., his tattoos, his family) are irreversible. Conceivably, Gonzalo is making a rational decision, judging correctly that he would not be able to function again in the Spanish context. He realizes perhaps that he who has gone native will be viewed with suspicion upon return. Gonzalo cannot go back because his transformed body marks him as a heathen. Indeed, in an attempt to make sense of Gonzalo’s choices, one of the chroniclers, Fernández de Oviedo, speculated Gonzalo was a Muslim, a Jew, or a Converso, but no real Catholic (Calder, 2017). Who else would join the savages?! Clendinnen (cited by Calder, 2017, p. 83) put her finger on the psychological spot when writing that “for one of their own to acquiesce in such filthiness, and to choose it over his own and his own people, was to strike at the heart of their sense of self.” The identity of the native-goer and the identities of the referent groups are interwoven.

I have by necessity emphasized the male and the European perspective. What about the female and Mayan view? Who is Zazil Há, and what is her role in Gonzalo’s transformation? Without her, his fate and story might look rather different. This is a chapter that wants to be written. Meanwhile, we are left to ponder questions of identity that pervade the stories we tell about ourselves (McAdams & McLean, 2013). Extreme cases like Gonzalo are instructive because they highlight conflict and transformation. Such cases are tests of identity. Various parts of the Gonzalo story may resonate with you. Perhaps Gonzalo can encourage us to take another look at where we stand and why. What are the forces that shape us, and how will we respond when a storm throws us up against an unfamiliar shore.

Home to Homer

There is a curious sociological side to the reception of Gonzalo. In the Yucatán, he is widely known and revered. His legend is a rallying point against the official point of view, which still emphasizes the deeds of the conquistadors (in Mérida, these are the Montejos, father and son [el mozo]). The Yucatán is Maya country and far removed from Central Mexico, where the Aztecs provide the indigenous reference point. There, Cortés is credited with creating the race of mestizos with his slave, interpreter, and mistress, La Malinche. Cortés is reviled in the popular imagination there (just look at how Diego Rivera depicted him). Now consider the psychological problem: how can a positive image of an ingroup – here: la raza of mestizos – be constructed on the back of a raptor Urvater? The Yucatecans have solved this problem by embracing Gonzalo. Their ethnic identity is a blend of the Mayan, the mestizo, and the Mexican, and they can trace the mix to someone they can love.

And this is possible, I submit, because Ganzalo took the leap without a safety net. Gonzalo’s journey is not an Odyssey. In the Odyssey, the eventual return home is the engine behind the voyage; in Gonzalo, the hero does not look back to look forward. In conversation in Mérida, colleagues asked me why I did not consider Cabeza de Vaca as an exemplar of going native. Cabeza was shipwrecked in what is now Florida and walked all the way to the city of Mexico, a journey that took him eight years and that gained him repute as a healer and shaman among native populations along the way (Reséndez, 2007). But Cabeza had one goal: to reach home. And he did. He was a modern-day Odysseus. Gonzalo, who took a different path, remains unique and his legend has much to teach us.

Calder, R. (2017). A hero for the Americas: The legend of Gonzalo Guerrero. Regina, Saskatchewan: University of Regina Press.

Flores, L. E. (2012). Avatar o el regreso to Gonzalo Guerrero. La Jornada Semanal, 880. https://www.jornada.com.mx/2012/01/15/sem-luis.html

Freud, S. (1965/1933). New introductory lectures on . ( . James Strachey). Oxford, England: W. W. Norton.

Krueger, J. I. (2010). Back to the story. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/blog/one-among-many/201003/back-the-s...

Krueger, J. I. (2017). Going native. Psychology Today Online. https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/blog/one-among-many/201708/going-native

Landa, D. de (1566). Relación de las cosas de Yucatán. 2nd ed. Mérida, Yucatán, September, 2011.

McAdams, D. P., & McLean, K. C. (2013). Narrative Identity. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 22, 233–238.

Reséndez, A. (2007). A journey so strange: The extraordinary tale of a shipwrecked Spaniard who walked across America in the Sixteenth Century. New York: Perseus.

Ullrich, J., & Krueger, J. I. (2010). Interpersonal liking from bivariate attitude similarity. Social Psychology and Science, 1, 214-221.

White, E. R. (2010). In search of identity: Inner diaspora and psychic healing in Rudyard Kipling's Kim and Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children. South Asian Review, 31, 9-26,

====== 252 ========

THANKSGIVING: GRATITUDE OR GRATIFICATION?

Yesterday was the fourth Thursday in November, the day we recognize as Thanksgiving. Like many – though pointedly not all - Americans, the author was fortunate to be in the company of loved ones. As anticipated eagerly, the centerpiece of the event was a carefully prepared, sumptuous dinner. People laughed, teased, and caught each other up with their news. At evening’s end, they sat by a fire telling stories and sharing pictures. Although no one stated this directly, it was clear that everyone felt somehow affirmed and reinvigorated, both for who they have been and for who they will be. Then the visitors got in their cars and went home.

Today is another special day, so-called Black Friday. No has proclaimed this a time of national consolidation; most of us are back at work. But tens of millions are bustling about the stores. Others are on-line. Officially – though unofficially it never ends - the Christmas season is underway. Shoppers dream of special bargains; retailers pray that months of red ink will end. Thank heavens that this year’s date, November 23, is the earliest the event can be.

Such goings-on should make us ponder the character of our country’s celebrations. Who are we as a people? What energizes us? What values do we hold dear?

In any society, public holidays are special moments dedicated to answering the above questions. For the most important of those occasions, workers – at least government workers – have the day off. Schools, post offices, and many other public services are closed. The stock market pauses; banks lock their doors. In the U.S., there are 10 “official” federal holidays:

New Year’s Day (Jan. 1)

Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (3rd Monday in January)

Washington’s Birthday (3rd Monday in February)

Memorial Day (last Monday in May)

Independence Day (July 4)

Labor Day (first Monday in September)

Columbus Day (first Monday in October)

Veterans Day (November 11)

Thanksgiving (4th Thursday in November)

Christmas Day (December 25)

As the reader can see, the holidays are of different sorts. Two celebrate the sacrifices of soldiers; one, of working people. There is remembrance of a president, an explorer, and a social reformer. A day of nation founding is marked; so is a key holiday. One holiday (with its preceding night of revelry) is just a calendar beginning. Finally, there is Thanksgiving.

Other publicly celebrated times – such as Valentine’s Day, Saint Patrick’s Day, Easter, and Halloween – are not federally recognized. Nor is that mammoth sporting event, the Super Bowl.

Although U.S. holidays are distinctive in their purposes and origins – and in the political wrangles that led to their enshrinement – those differences tend to be blurred or assimilated by the general culture of the society, and particularly by its commercial culture. Put simply, most are now occasions to shop, travel, and be entertained.

Contrast this with some not so distant centuries in European history, when holidays were indeed holy days. Sometimes they featured parades down thoroughfares, with key social groups claiming their positions in line. Celebrants gathered in common spaces or churchyards. Under religious auspices, people made their own fun, romping together. Different ages, genders, occupations, and social ranks mixed. Childlike behaviors were encouraged; so were minor acts of disrespect and impiety. There were and games; food and drink were abundant. In such ways, local communities proclaimed their identities. In an age of arduous existence, holidays were times to relax and refresh oneself – and to explore alternative value systems that challenged secular hierarchies and their codes of conduct.

Pointedly then, holidays are times to stop and reconsider the character of one’s life, to dabble in unusual behaviors, and to dream of new ways of living. Routines, particularly work routines, should pause. Normally dispersed people should unite. At such moments, the present swings loose from its normal placement in the scheme of things. The past blooms. And the future takes on newly imagined themes.

For such reasons, let people remember fallen heroes, ponder founding principles, and honor the groups that continue to make society vital. It is no shame to mix those solemnities with youthful exuberance.

Our contemporary holidays take on some of these meanings. Most of us are capable, if only for a few moments, of honoring the ancestors who made possible our current patterns of existence. Despite our mythology of being a fiercely individualistic country, we are a social people who love to be in the presence of those we care about. We are pleased to be “off work.” We enjoy eating and drinking.

Thanksgiving is one of the times that shows us at our best. It is also, and not coincidentally, one of the least commercialized of the honored days. To be sure, grocery stores are in overdrive; one can buy decorative items. Still, the event is largely a blip between the much more heavily commercialized times of Halloween and Christmas. To be sure, there are parades, like the famous one sponsored by Macy’s; but these are clearly run-ups to Christmas with Santa’s float at the rear. The same is to be said for televised sports. There is a profusion of these, but they are not the biggest of Big Games, which come later in the year.

Let us acknowledge that public acts of “giving thanks” are important, even profound matters. When food supplies are scarce or problematic, as in many societies historically, the blessings of a good harvest are very real. Thanks are offered, in part to the human workers who produced the bounty but mostly to ’s god or gods, who allowed the community to maintain its precarious existence. In that sense, the 1621 fall feast of the Massachusetts pilgrims was not distinctive – other settling groups had done the same – except for its joining of Native Americans with the scruffy immigrants.

How did Thanksgiving become a national holiday? In an attempt to build nationhood and steel military resolve, the Continental Congress formally encouraged individual colonies to have days of thanksgiving during the Revolutionary War. These events – conceived as “national days of prayer, , and thanksgiving” continued after independence. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first uniformly recognized day (Thursday, November 26) to thank God for the blessings granted the young republic.

Several subsequent Presidents (Jefferson being a conspicuous exception) continued that pattern, although different days and times of year were involved. The practice then became inconsistent, with states taking the lead.

As the nation lurched toward Civil War, Sara Josepha Hale, the editor of the popular magazine Godey’s Lady’s Book –and the author of an 1823 novel that featured a thanksgiving dinner - campaigned for Thanksgiving’s reinstitution as a national holiday. In response, President Lincoln designated Thursday, November 26, 1863, as such a day. Again, the focus was on to God. Pragmatically, it was a claim for national unity during a period of fierce division.

Lincoln’s precedent – effectively, naming the fourth Thursday in November – became the model for present times. Franklin Roosevelt did alter that pattern during the years 1939-1941, primarily to extend the Christmas shopping season. However, there was much opposition to “Franksgiving,” and in late 1941 Roosevelt signed a congressional resolution making the fourth Thursday as the official holiday.

Have the meanings of Thanksgiving shifted through the centuries? The earliest ceremonies focused on gratitude to God. They gathered community members for a feast. They emphasized that a time of great trial had come and gone. The calendar dates of the events were unimportant.

After Lincoln’s initial proclamation (which linked Thanksgiving to the stresses of war), the national custom became date-set and thus disconnected from any specific tests or trials. In the fashion of an officially sanctioned custom, local communities across the country were encouraged to do the event in their own ways. Parades, festivities, and football games were associated with the extended weekend of the holiday. The specifically religious focus of the holiday softened. Moreover, and as Roosevelt’s moving of the date made clear, there was increasing recognition that this was now the start of the Christmas shopping season,

It would perhaps be unrealistic to expect that a commercialized society like ours should not commercialize its holidays. Time off means time to shop. A day at home is an occasion to watch television and visit websites, all framed by commercial messaging. Go a large sporting event – or just watch one on TV – and sense the degree to which our enjoyments are “sponsored.” We find comfort in the companionship of successful products, or brand names. Their sole ambition is to please us; their possession proclaims that we have “made it.”

Again, who can blame us for seeking our pleasure-dose, for aspiring to be gratified? We want to center our thoughts on the wonderful meal before us. We treasure the support of the tablemates who make us feel good about ourselves. We hope that our favorite will be on TV – and that they will win. What feels better than a soothing drink and a warm fire?

Whatever the legitimacy of these satisfactions – and who can deny them? – we should remember that Thanksgiving is intended to turn our thoughts in the opposite direction. It is an occasion to thank those who make our lives – at all their moments - possible. Some of that thanks goes rightly to our families, however checkered our with them may be. Remember our good , the ones who stand by us in all circumstances. But beyond those carefully maintained circles others should be noted. Community members, once such an important part of people’s existence, continue to shape the local worlds in which we operate. Co-workers; church, team, and club members; fellow enthusiasts of our hobbies and causes all contribute to our sense of stability and purpose. Be clear that we also find support from people we do not know well – who build, repair, and otherwise service our existence. There are the unseen and unappreciated millions who contribute to our country and ensure its continuity. Beyond that, let those who have some awareness of the sacred foundations of our modest lives express that gratitude as well.

In short, the purpose of holidays (and Thanksgiving is just one of these) is to acknowledge indebtedness to others. Do not confuse gratification — the feeling of the full belly, warm fire, or comforting pat on the back – with that sense of willing obligation. We live as we do because others have made that existence possible. Let other times be devoted to self-encouragement, even self-love. At holidays, we thank those who have widened our realms of possibility.

====== 253 ========

HOW TO STOP FIGHTING WITH YOUR SPOUSE

Years back I saw a high powered, professional couple in San Francisco who went at each other’s throats, verbally speaking, twenty-four seven. Everything turned into an epic battle—whether the issue was eating meals, having , planning vacations, spending and saving money, decorating the house, rearing kids, or dealing with in-laws and ex-spouses. When they fought, they would revisiting one old hurt after another, and never resolving anything.

Both claimed they were powerless to control their tempers. Then, a distinguished British professor came to stay with them as their houseguest for several months, living in a guest room adjacent to their bedroom. “During that time, we never raised our voices,” the wife told me. “We were pretty courteous with each other. Pride, I guess.” They both agreed it was the best several months of their .

I wish I had a distinguished British houseguest to loan out to all my readers and clients. But I don’t. You'll just have to believe me when I tell you that you are capable of adjusting your behavior. It’s all about and following a couple of rules.

Where to start? The first rule is to make rules for how you as a couple will treat each other—rules you are responsible for following even in the heat of the moment. Like the couple I just described we often act as if the intensity of our gives us license to say or do anything, because, after all, we’re way to furious to be able to stop what’s coming out of our mouth! .

Of course we can stop ourselves and behave better--that is if we have a genuine intention to have a better marriage. If you or your partner can’t keep your anger from getting out of control, it’s important to get professional help.

Begin by sitting down with your partner and coming up with a few rules of your own. These might be, for example, “No yelling or name calling,“ “No bringing up past grievances during a fight” and “No bringing up problems at bedtime.” Many couples find it helpful to keep a written copy of the rules in a place where both will see it daily.

The second rule is to take the responsibility to change first, and make a sincere effort to keep fighting and negativity from escalating. Instead of waiting for your partner to do the right thing, take the initiative to add a note of or calm into a downward-spiraling conflict, or to postpone the exchange to a future time.

It doesn’t matter whether you use humor, or touch, or a simple refusal to participate in a non-productive exchange by saying something like, “If you want me to listen, get out of your debate posture!” The efforts you make to change the tone (or volume) of an increasingly nasty exchange can, over time, save and strengthen your marriage.

Of course, we want our partner to be the one to de-escalate and apologize first, especially if we’re convinced that he “started it” and is the one to blame. We lose sight of the fact that true victory lies in stopping the fight, and then making your point at a calmer time.

Don’t continue to participate in downward spiraling fights that go nowhere and threaten the foundation of and respect on which a good marriage is based. Happy couples are not couples that don’t fight. Rather they’re couples that fight fair, and take responsibility for their own words and actions, no matter how furious they may feel inside. If your motor is running for change, heres a book to help you to use your anger wisely and well.

====== 254 ========

DONALD TRUMP, NOT MELANIA, IS THE MOST BULLIED PERSON

Source: TMZ/Tyler Shields/Fair Use

Melania has failed to earn the 's sympathy for her recent declaration that she is the world’s most bullied person. And rightfully so. She is definitely not the most bullied person. That dubious distinction goes to her husband.

Melania may have been correct, though, had she complained of being the most bullied woman.

How do we determine who is the most bullied person? One way is by examining how much they are insulted, ridiculed and attacked in the news and entertainment media. There’s no contest. President Trump holds the number one place hands down.

Why our President is the most bullied person

There is a simple reason President Trump is the most bullied person in the world: the more powerful and famous you are, the more people are going to want to criticize, ridicule, attack, hate, and even destroy you.

The media and the general public don’t care about the flaws of the average John or Jane Doe. It is the rich, famous and powerful who are on the radar of the media, constantly on the lookout for the titillating information we crave to spice up our mundane, dreary existence.

With the possible exception of despotic dictatorships, the most bullied person in any country is its . In the US, it’s always been our President, even the most popular of them. And since the US is still considered the world’s leading power, the US President is the most bullied individual on the planet.

This is not to say that the President is only a target of . The President is also the nation’s most respected and supported person. But that does not negate the fact that he/she is the most bullied. There may be other famous people who temporarily move into the Number One position when they become the focus of worldwide negative media (think Harvey Weinstein). But as soon as the novelty wears away, the President reclaims the lead.

And if the President is a married man, the most bullied woman is likely to be his wife, the First Lady, especially if she assumes a public role, as many have done, including Melania. The media will examine her through a microscopic lens, searching for any imperfection or blunder to publicize in order to enhance their own ratings.

There are exceptions to the First Lady being the most bullied woman. Other women who hold top positions of power may be contenders, such as Hillary Clinton, especially during election season. But generally it is the First Lady that holds the position of the most bullied woman during the years of her reign. And this is especially true for Melania because of her association with Donald, commonly referred to as our Bully-in-Chief.

The Obamas were also the most-bullied

The Obamas were also the most bullied people when they occupied the White House. Barack was a recipient not only of praise; he was constantly despised and attacked by a sizable portion of Americans. And so was Barack’s wife. As reported in the New York Daily News:

During her eight years as First Lady, Michelle Obama withstood an onslaught of personal attacks and racist insults, with her critics seizing on her skin color and physical features – and repeatedly comparing her to a monkey in a bid to diminish her and tear her down.

The bullying of Melania

We feel sorry for children whose clothing is made fun of in school. Well, how about Melania Trump, whose wardrobe is a regular target of media ridicule. Her clothing was ridiculed only a few days ago: “Twitter goes after Melania Trump's unusual ensemble at the 2018 White House turkey pardoning.”

You may recall the worldwide attacks she suffered because of a coat she wore bearing the imprint, “I don’t really care, do you?”

But perhaps the most scathing attack on her wardrobe – or lack of one – was perpetrated a week ago by Bette Middler (I happened to find it funny, though Middler got mostly flack for her joke), who referred to FLOTUS (First Lady Of The US) as FLOTITS in a Tweet, The dry cleaning bill for the upholstery on Air Force One must be insane.#FLOTITS

Imagine – you have achieved the coveted status of First Lady of the United States, a position that should make you the object of veneration. Then someone posts an almost-nude picture of you from your previous as a model, accompanied by a vulgar caption, and it goes viral. This has produced an unprecedented situation: it is the first time in history that we can all see what our First Lady looks (looked?) like naked.

But the most serious barrage of bullying Melania has been subjected to is over the mission she has taken upon herself as First Lady: to combat bullying among children. She calls her campaign, Be Best, urging children to treat each other well. The media has had a field day with this, lampooning her as a hypocrite because she’s married to our Bully-In-Chief. How ironic to be bullied for taking up the anti-bully cause!

President Trump may be rightfully attacked for his public bullying behavior, unbecoming of a person in his exalted position. He has even been accused of causing an escalation of bullying among children: Donald Trump Has Unleashed a New Wave of Bullying in Schools. A highly publicized recent scientific study supports this contention.

Yes, indeed, our President fits the image of a classic bully. So it can certainly seem preposterously hypocritical for his wife to be taking up the anti-bully cause.

Our own hypocrisy

But there is something we tend to forget when we ridicule the Trumps. Bullying did not start with Donald and it won’t end with him. The bullies are not “them.” They are “us.”

Bullying is in our . As much as we attack the President for engaging in bullying, we enjoy being perpetrators and spectators of bullying as well, and we don’t want to stop. We enjoy it too much. The Trump presidency has been the best thing ever to happen to Saturday Night Live. Comedians’ careers have had new life breathed into them thanks to Trump. Trump has provided reporters, bloggers, and even psychologists with a steady stream of material, and the rest of us eagerly partake of their offerings. They give us something exciting to talk about at the water cooler, in the bar, on social media, and at our dinner tables.

No, the Trump presidency is not a cause of our bullying but a mirror of it. We are highly attuned when he bullies others but conveniently oblivious when we do it to him. And we do it to him much more than he does it to us. Jesus popularized the idea that we are adept at "seeing the speck in others’ eyes while failing to see the plank in our own." Does anything Donald has said about anyone rival the malevolence of Kathy Griffin’s appearance with a bloody replica of Trump’s severed head?

In fact, are not the things we routinely say about Trump far worse than what he says about us? Sure they are. It’s because we live in a democracy, and Trump knows that if he offends us too much we will vote him out of office. However, thanks to Freedom of Speech we can insult him all we want and, unless we work for him, there’s little he can do about it. While Kathy Griffin would have literally lost her head had she pulled such a stunt in a dictatorship, she is now enjoying renewed success as a result of Trump's attempt to ruin her career.

We may justify bullying the rich, powerful and famous by rationalizing that they deserve it, or that it is the price one pays for celebrity status. But it is easy to forget that celebrities are also human beings with feelings, just like the rest of us. While on the line at the grocery store, our gaze may be drawn to the humiliating stories and photos of celebrities that grace the covers of magazines. But do the celebrities enjoy the way they are depicted? Do they deserve to be publicly disgraced? Do we compassionately share their pain, or do we revel in the pleasure of schadenfraude?

If we are to learn anything about bullying from the Trump Presidency, it’s that the bullies are not “them.” They are “us.” As long as we enjoy the bullying of Donald, Melania, and others in positions of power, we cannot expect Trump to stop engaging in bullying, either. We may protest that he started, but doing it back makes us no better.

====== 255 ========

11 WAYS TO COPE WITH ANXIETY WHEN YOU’RE BUSY

Source: rawpixel for Unsplash

Finding ways to cope with is as much a matter of perspective as strategy. Anxiety in and of itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, and in fact can be a help, especially when we are busy. A powerful source of information and energy, anxiety can walk a fine line between motivating and overwhelming depending on how we choose to view it.

For those who live with anxiety on a more-than-occasional basis, choices tend to vacillate between giving into it or learning to live with it. “Perspective” can seem like a leisure activity in our fast-paced, information-packed world, rather than a line-item on a competent person’s calendar.

And yet, without perspective, there really is no competence. Information overload and the constant state of alert cause anxiety to fall off the fence and into the proverbial briar patch of overwhelm.

Learning ways to cope with anxiety when its optimization is still possible is far different than operating a rescue mission after it has all but crippled you. And when you’re busy (And who doesn’t feel “too busy”?), it is especially important to have some practiced methods of anxiety on-hand.

can be a tricky player. Sometimes it shows up as a factor beyond your control, forcing the hand of change and adaptation. Without it, there would be no growth, no strengthening, no evolution. And that is as true for the planet and its species as it is for the individual.

At the other end of the spectrum, stress can be a reflection of your mental and emotional responses to stimuli. Cognitively you may suspect or even know that the events triggering your anxiety in a given situation are actually “neutral,” and it is only your responses to them that are not. Frustrating as those times are (and we all have them), those are actually the “stressful moments” most imbued with opportunity.

Regardless of the origin of your anxiety, a stress response with a permanent green light isn't helpful. Chronic non-stop stress can overwhelm the nervous system and take its toll, both physically and emotionally.

You can, however, make choices and take actions to mitigate that stress response. There are ways to cope with anxiety so that you come out on the winning end and reap the benefits of anxiety as a resource.

Here are 11 strategies to try, especially when you’re busy:

1. Relaxation techniques for creeping-past-moderate anxiety.



By knowing how you instinctively respond to stress, you can best choose a course of action that either utilizes the stress or helps to quiet it. Do you get worked up? Retreat? Feel energized? Paralyzed? By knowing your unique tendencies, you can be in charge of your anxiety, not the other way around.



Moderate anxiety is where optimization lies. It’s where you will experience the “nudge” to get things done, push a little harder, risk going outside your comfort zone. It’s the “chatter” range of anxiety that keeps you accountable to the things that are important to you.



When anxiety starts “yelling” at you, however, the internal experience is literally like being yelled at. Your mind goes into overwhelm, or even shuts down as a defense mechanism.



Think of the difference between a that hits your system as “full dose” vs. “extended release.” Keeping anxiety at a “chatter” level will keep you comfortably on your toes and in sync with the it fuels.



On those occasions when the volume of your anxiety starts ramping up, it helps to have some techniques to bring your body and mind back into equilibrium. You may just need to dial back on the volume, or you may need to “reset” and start fresh after a break. The key is to recognize when your anxiety is starting to take control of you, and intervene with a relaxation technique that works for you.



Examples of relaxation techniques include:

• deep breathing

•

• body-scan meditation

•

• yoga and Tai Chi



2. Uni-task vs. multi-task.



We are all conditioned to believe that we must consistently do a gazillion things at once in order to keep up with the Joneses, let alone to succeed. But constant multitasking actually causes the to work less efficiently.



Learning to “uni-task” is at the heart of mindfulness meditation and is a powerful tool in helping to establish priorities while letting non-essentials fall away. Put down your phone and be with your child. Get out of the office and have a “walking meeting” with your co-worker. Get comfortable giving your to one thing at a time.



3. Spread the .



Direct your anxiety into helping someone else. It’s amazing how the proclivity for worrying dissipates when you are selflessly serving someone else’s needs. And it’s no secret that you will benefit, as well.



4. Exercise.



Even gentle exercise like walking or yoga can have a profound effect. The endorphins released with gentle exercise will keep you energized and focused without the uncomfortable anxiety effects.



5. Talk it out.



Having someone to talk with when anxiety starts to get ahead of you can help slow its progress and steer you back toward its productive benefits. A friend, counselor, or support group can help you keep perspective. And infusing a little into the conversation is great medicine.



6. Turn off to tune out.



Turn off the TV and say “night-night” to your phone at least an hour before bedtime. The last thing an anxious mind needs when trying to wind down is a barrage of hostile headlines and social notifications.



The -assaulting effects of your screen’s blue light frequency can also wreak havoc with your ability to drift off. Because it mimics the blue light of dawn, it can sabotage your sleep ritual by “waking you up.”



There are plenty of low-tech ways to relax before bed. Try a book with actual pages and/or a diffuser with calming essential oils. Or download a filter to your computer to change the light frequency.



7. Eat well.



How you eat affects how you feel, both physically and emotionally.



The common-sense guidelines for keeping your body healthy also pertain to keeping your brain healthy. Watch the caffeine, avoid fried and high-sugar foods, and eat oil-rich fish and plenty of vegetables. Keeping your blood-sugar levels on an even keel is one of the simplest ways to cope with anxiety while fostering a healthy all-around life.



8. Take action in spite of .



Instead of allowing yourself time to brood over all the possible outcomes of your choices, take action. Get into the game. Take baby steps if that is all you can do. But stand up to the fear and make adjustments once you are in motion. You’ll find that most of that catastrophizing was for naught.

9. Tell yourself you can handle this, because you are handling it.



When doubt creeps in, pull out a mantra that works for you -- something like, “I can handle this, and everything is going to be OK.”



While the anxietythat you are feeling is likely a signal for needed growth, there is no 911 for you to accomplish it all right now. You are handling the demands of this moment, and you willhandle the demands that come after. One breath, one moment, one task at a time.



By recognizing that you are managing -- even if not so gracefully -- you can also shed a common secondary anxiety that comes along with stress: “I can’t handle this.” You may not wantto handle it, but you can.



10. Be strategic in placing your expectations.



In the spirit of making stress as low as possible, strive to limit high expectations. Taking a moment to ask yourself, “Do I have control over this? And if so, how much?” can do wonders to position you advantageously and prevent the deflation that comes from having high hopes dashed.



Your hopes and are precious commodities. Be protective of them, and careful not to put them at unnecessary risk. Look to focus on realistic , informed by what is actually happening. Notice where you feel traction, and look to build expectations from there.



However, even when you’re keeping your expectations in check, disappointments will still happen. And, no matter how small they are, they can still hurt – because you care.



Your caring is a vital part of you. It’s OK to be sad for a short while when you feel disappointed before moving forward again. The important thing is that you are willing to keep moving so that you don’t get stuck in any feelings of disappointment along the way to pursuing your hopes and dreams.



11. Identify how you are overextending and pull back.



When stress rears its head, most of us stretch to meet its demands. This is how we grow and get stronger. But when we stretch too much and avoid setting limits, especially at work, we risk a diminishing return on investment. Perfectionism can lure us out of balance, as well.



For many of us, saying “no” can be tough. How can you limit someof your overextending? Where can you claim more time, more space for you? How, and to whom, can you say “no” or “not now” with consequences you can live with?



It is too tempting to say “no” and “not now” to our own needs in order to cope; but in the long run, this is a recipe for . While flexibility might be admirable, it can be an impediment to holding onto balance. Flexibility still needs to suit your own needs to be sustainable.

Anxiety has the ability to increase energy, streamline mental focus and boost productivity. Optimizing it relies on you being able to recognize its symptoms and keep a positive perspective, then using those symptoms to your advantage as much as possible. By having reliable ways to cope with anxiety, you can embrace it as a colleague that is accompanying you on your journey for your highest good.

====== 256 ========

EVIDENCE THAT DREAMS HELP US LEARN

One of the most interesting lines of research in dream psychology these days are the so-called “dream incorporation” studies. Incorporation of novel learned material into dream content significantly predicts success at permanent retention or learning that novel content (Fiss et al., 1977; De Konnick et al., 1990; Stickgold et al., 2000; Fosse, Fosse, Hobson, & Stickgold, 2003; Wamsley, Perry, et al., 2010; Wamsley, Tucker, et al., 2010; Wamsley et al., 2012; Schoch et al., 2018; Wamsley and Stickgold, 2018). If you dream about something you studied that day you are more likely to retain that information the next day. Improved performance on learning novel materials is significantly associated with the extent of dream incorporation—the greater the number of elements of the learned materials incorporated into , the stronger the acquisition of those novel materials in subsequent daytime performance tests. For example, De Koninck et al., 1990 found that second language acquisition scores were predicted by a higher frequency of dreams that incorporated elements (words, phrases etc) of the second language into dream content. Wamsley et al. (2012) demonstrated that learning to master a virtual maze navigation task was significantly associated with dream incorporation of elements of the maze. Greater incorporation predicted greater mastery. Learning-related dream incorporation into REM dreams is strongest on the night after and from 5–7 nights after learning, reflecting “day residue” and “dream-lag” effects, respectively (Nielsen et al., 2004; van Rijn et al., 2015).

The neurobiologic basis of these dream incorporation effects likely involves sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation processes. A large number of studies have now demonstrated differential performance improvements (e.g., from training to retest) on a large variety of tasks over an intervening period of sleep vs control periods of wakefulness. Human neuroimaging studies incorporating sleep dependent memory paradigms suggest that after new learning, there is physiological reactivation of brain areas recruited during learning (Peigneux et al., 2003, 2006; Oudiette and Paller, 2013; Oudiette et al., 2013; Fogel et al., 2017). Single cell recordings in animal studies have shown that during sleep there is a physiological replaying of the representation formed during waking learning (e.g. exploration of a maze). There is some evidence that this replay of neural representations of learned materials occurs in humans as well and is reflected in the content of our dreams (Stickgold et al., 2000; Wamsley et al., 2010; Kusse et al., 2012; Wamsley, 2014; 2018). “Targeted memory reactivation” refers to the use of cueing techniques to facilitate reactivation and replay of neural representations or during sleep to promote later waking recall of those memories (e.g., Cellini and Capuozzon, 2018, for review). For example, playing selected words or sounds during sleep that were previously paired with to-be-learned words during a learning phase before sleep results in better recall of the word-pairs post-sleep. Presentation of cues during sleep that had been previously associated with a stimulus during wake results in better recall of that stimulus during subsequent waking recall tests. These techniques have been used to improve memory performance in healthy people and in patient populations. By re-exposing subjects to odors, words, or tones (i.e., cues) associated with newly learnt neutral or emotional memories, emotional memories were reactivated and more readily recalled later. It should be possible to use targeted reactivation techniques to reinforce dream images of previously studied material. Then we would be harnessing the power of dreams in a whole new way.

====== 257 ========

WAS THE UNIVERSE MADE FOR US? LAST OF 4 PARTS

I've been exploring the so-called anthropic principle, the notion that perhaps the universe was somehow made with us in mind (suggested, according to its supporters, by the claim that if any of a large number of physical constants were just a smidgeon different, we wouldn't exist). If you'd like to catch up on this scientific-philosophical-theological and altogether skeptical journey, you can find versions one, two and three, in chronological order.

It seems likely that life exists elsewhere in the universe, if only because it has become clear that there is a huge number of potentially life-friendly planets along with other potential happy havens out there. And of course, if there is - and if the universe really was, somehow and by Someone, "made" - it's always possible that it was made for them: three-headed slimy slobbus beasts, or perhaps hardened chunks of metabolizing meteorite masses ... or whatever.

For extraterrestrial life to exist, it nonetheless seems likely (although by no means certain) that it would have to reside on one or more exoplanets, asteroids or perhaps a comet, rather than within a star or free-floating in open space. Moreover, such exoplanets would have to be associated with stars that, for example, don’t emit massive amounts of X-rays or other forms of radiation. But of course, this presumes that “life” would be consistent with “life as we know it.” Maybe there are critters out there who cheerfully bathe in hefty levels of what to terrestrial biologists are lethal amounts of energy, or get by and even thrive on not enough energy to sustain a perseverating entity that would qualify – to us - as “alive.” Most likely, I suspect, there aren’t.

Just a bit closer to established reality, quantum mechanics offers another potential solution to the anthropic conundrum, one that seems if anything weirder than the multiverse hypothesis. According to theory - the same theory that gives rise to, among other things, the very real computer on which this book has been written - matter at its most fundamental level is made up of probabilistic wave functions, which only transition to “reality” when a conscious observer intervenes to measure or perceive them. In the famous “double slit experiment,” light is revealed to be either a particle or a wave only after it is measured as one or the other. Prior to this, photons do not, in a sense, exist as clear-cut entities; afterward, they do.

Based on these and other findings, physicist John Wheeler, one of the towering pioneers of quantum mechanics, who coined the term “black hole,” (and who numbered Nobel laureate Richard Feynman among his students) suggested a “participatory anthropic principle,” whereby – believe it or not – the universe had to include conscious beings in order for it to exist. Personally, I don’t believe it.

I do, however, believe in evolution, which leads – by a stretch no more bizarre than Wheeler’s – to the suggestion that maybe it shouldn’t be surprising that we live in a universe suitable for life, something that has happened not because the universe has been fine-tuned for us or has somehow been “made real” by us, but because we are fine-attuned to it because of natural selection. Just as the physical qualities of air have selected for the structure of bird wings, and the anatomy of fish speaks eloquently about the of water, maybe the nature of the physical universe has in the most general sense, selected for life, and thus, for us.

There is also another, more peculiar way of incorporating natural selection into the anthropic quest. What if natural selection occurs at the level of galaxies, or even universes, such that those offering the potential for life are more likely to replicate themselves? If so, then compared to life-denying galaxies, life-friendly ones might conceivably have produced more copies of themselves, providing greater opportunities for life forms such as ourselves. Aside from the rampant unlikelihood of this “explanation,” it remains unclear how or why such pro-life galaxies would be favored over their more barren alternatives.

Nonetheless, physicist Lee Smolin has pursued the notion of “cosmological natural selection,” whereby perhaps not just galaxies but entire universes replicate themselves, courtesy of black holes.[i] If so, then what sort of universes would be favored – “selected for,” as biologists would put it? Easy: those that employ physical laws and constants that are “more fit,” i.e., that lend themselves to being reproduced. This conveniently explains (if explanation is the correct word) why our universe contains black holes (it’s how they replicate). It also leads to the supposition that perhaps intelligent beings can contribute to the selective advantage of their particular universe, via the production of black holes, and who-knows-what-else.

Another possibility, no less weird, was broached by Carl Sagan in his 1985 novel, Contact. In it, the heroine is advised by an extraterrestrial to study transcendental numbers - numbers that are not algebraic – of which the best known example is pi. She computes one such number out to 1020 places, at which point she detects a message embedded in this number.

Since such numerology is fundamental to mathematics itself and is thus, in a sense, a property of the basic fabric of the universe, the implication is that the cosmos itself is somehow a product of intelligence, since the message is clearly an artificial one and not the result of random noise. Or maybe the universe itself is “alive,” and the various physical and mathematical constants are part of its metabolism. Such speculation is great fun, but please bear in mind that it is science fiction, not science!

It should be clear at this point that the anthropic argument readily devolves into speculative and even theology. Indeed, it is reminiscent of the “god of the gaps” perspective, in which god is posited whenever science hasn’t (yet) provided an answer. Calling upon god specifically when there is a gap in our scientific may be tempting, but it is not even popular among theologians, because as science grows, the gaps – and thus, god – shrinks. It remains to be seen whether the anthropic principle, in whatever form, succeeds in expanding our sense of ourselves beyond that illuminated by science. I wouldn’t bet on it.

And yet, despite what we has been called Copernican Mediocrity – to which I would add Darwinian Mediocrity - just because the universe is unlikely to be what it is simply for our benefit, this need not, and should not, give rise to an alternative, “misanthropic principle.” Regardless of how special we are, or aren’t, wouldn’t we be well-advised to treat everyone (including the other life forms with which we share this planet), as the precious beings we like to imagine us all to be?

[i] L. Smolin. 1999. The Life of the Cosmos. New York: Oxford University Press

====== 258 ========

MANAGING THE EXPERIENCE OF SETBACKS AT WORK

Work deadlines are a fact of life for many individuals, and failure to meet deadlines can result in serious consequences. Unfortunately, set-backs are also common at work. Specifically, sometimes the progress workers are able to make toward their goals is inhibited by factors outside their control. For instance, a computer crash has the potential to undo a day’s worth of work. When deadlines must be met, such set-backs can be quite upsetting, and potentially demotivating.

However, to date relatively little research has considered the effects of set-backs on worker emotions and . More so, virtually no efforts have been made to differentiate types of set-backs. To this end, my co-authors Abigail Scholer, Jeffrey Hughes, and I designed two experiments to address this issue. Specifically, we identified two types of set-backs:

Distance Set-backs are characterized by a loss of progress. As an example, consider an employee working on a report due at the end of the day. A computer crash that causes some or all of the report to be deleted is a distance set-back.

Velocity Set-backs are characterized by a decrease in the rate of progress that can be made in the future. No progress is lost, yet all future progress is made more slowly compared to before the set-back occurred. For instance, a virus that causes a computer to slow down (thereby slowing future progress) is a velocity set-back.

We predicted that both types of set-backs would cause individuals to feel increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm while performing work tasks. However, we also predicted that whereas the effects of a distance set-back would eventually fade over time, the effects of a velocity set-back would persist.

Participants were randomly assigned to experience either a distance set-back or a velocity set-back while they completed a simulated work task. Halfway through the experiment participants were told their was a “computer glitch.” Participants in the distance condition were told this glitch caused some of the work they had already completed to be lost, and thus, this work would need to be redone. Conversely, participants in the velocity condition were told the glitch caused delays in the computer program, resulting in slower progress from that point onward. Importantly, the distance and velocity set-backs were designed to be functionally equivalent in terms of the likelihood of ultimately completing the task within the deadline. In other words, all participants had an equal chance to meet the deadline, regardless of condition. Participants who completed the task within the deadline were given a small cash reward.

As expected, participants had relatively negative initial reactions to both types of set-backs. Specifically, participants in both conditions reported increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm. Yet these reactions were relatively short-lived for participants who experienced a distance set-back; frustration and enthusiasm returned to baseline levels by the end of the experiment. On the other had, the increased frustration and decreased enthusiasm persisted over time among participants who experienced the velocity set-back. Although the set-backs were equivalent in terms of their effect on ultimately completing the task within the deadline, negative reactions to velocity set-backs were far more persistent compared to the reactions to the distance set-back. Downstream, frustration and enthusiasm predicted important motivational outcomes, including goal commitment, effort, and task performance.

These results highlight the importance of the effects that set-back can have on worker emotions and motivation. Managers should be cognizant of the fact that workers are likely to be upset following set-backs, and this may detract from motivation and performance moving forward. This may be particularly true following velocity set-backs. However, managers may be able to ameliorate the these deleterious effects by helping employees update their expectations regarding a reasonable rate of progress. In other words, following a velocity set-back managers may be to communicate to their subordinates that they understand the source of the slowed progress. Doing so may help employees reappraise the situation, form new internal guidelines for reasonable rates of progress, and remain committed to completing the task on time.

The full manuscript can be downloaded here.

====== 259 ========

BETWEEN HERE AND MY LAST STOP: MEMOIRS AND ASSISTED MAGIC

Source: Wikimedia

It was a fall about the time of the Women’s March 2016 that sidelined me and my pink pussy hat. I knew then that I had just participated in my last protest demonstration. Although a one-time believer is the "stay-at-home" movement -- research on , , and highlights from the Gerontological Society of America meetings, which I have been following for some years now, compelled me to reconsider. The 18th Annual Meeting was held in Boston this month. With research from diverse areas, they report on new scientific research and ways to promote healthy aging. Gerontological Society of America.

It came at a time, when I was feeling challenged and welcomed their ideas and energy. Despite my calling "aging in place the fountain of youth" in an earlier article, after my pussy hat fall my choices were limited: Moving in with children or into assisted living — for which I considered myself to be too young. Nonetheless, after reading once again Being Mortal by Atul Gawande, M.D., I began counting my blessings, and made a choice.

Gawande, a New Yorker staff writer, and long-time physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, points out that we can enjoy creative moments filled with meaning and vitality even in our later years.

As many reviewers have pointed out, Gawande's mission appears to be allowing people to live a meaningful life and shape the story of their own lives. While assisted living is sometimes considered a home, indeed, for people in their 60s, 70s, and older, it can be a place to begin a new adventure. If psychoanalyst Carl Gustav Jung born in 1875, folded up into full retirement, he may not have written one of his classic works, , , Reflections in 1962.

A book may not be in our future, but assisted living can become a starting point for a new life experience. Former colleagues almost jealously compare my living choice to The MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire. There writers and artists are nurtured while oftentimes completing a work in progress.

A Family Memoir

Falling as I did sidelined me, but also set in motion a plan to collect all published columns about my grandparents and put them into a book for my grandchildren. And indeed, with a black paper photo scrapbook, made by one of my sisters, and time to write uninterrupted, Italian Kisses: My Grandmother's , is now with Bordighera Press in New York City.

For people interested in memoirs, there is new and interesting research from the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf. As reported in Behaviour Research and and and Behavioral Practice, even unhappy memories can be transformed by editing and rescripting them: How to Treasure Happy Memories and Edit the Sad Ones (with references.)

An Assignment

Before our last stop, many of us have a myriad of , wishes and dreams, or a bucket list. Most people do not like to think about the last stop. However, a graduate school assignment helped us to come face-to-face with our mortality. We were tasked with writing our own obituary. It was a way to look at our goals and determine how we wished to be remembered. Write one today and then ask yourself: "Is this what I'd like my life story to say?" And if it is not, then ask, "What is missing? What did I hope to accomplish?"

One graduate school colleague said she wanted to be a physician. Someone chided her saying, "You'll be 50 by the time you become a resident." She thought for a minute and answered, "I'll be 50 anyway." And she enrolled in medical school.

Copyright 2018 Rita Watson

====== 260 ========

THE PROFOUND PLEASURE OF PUTTERING

Source: Pippalou/Morguefile

After an exceedingly long, exceedingly busy couple of years—during which any time I wasn’t actively doing something, I was worrying about things I should be doing—I woke up one morning with all the important tasks behind me and nothing pressing ahead of me. Nothing to do, nowhere to go, and no reason to worry about it.

My god, what a glorious feeling.

I got out of bed, put on comfortable clothes, may or may not have brushed my hair, and threw myself body and soul into puttering.

I wonder: Do know the deep, joyous satisfaction of puttering around the house? Or is a day without other people, for them, a day wasted?

Puttering around the house entails wandering from room to room, doing those little things you’ve meant to do eventually (changing light bulbs, throwing away old eye shadows, paging through catalogs that have stacked up on the counter…). You let your wander with your body, shedding superfluous worries with the abandon of a cat dropping hair on black pants.

Puttering has no goal unless you count the million little that crop up, to either be accomplished or not. I take profound pleasure in tossing those catalogs in the recycle bin, blowing drifts of leaves off the driveway, organizing my sock drawer. In puttering, I simply follow along wherever my meandering mind takes me--and if I don’t finish something, so what? I’ll finish something else. Have you ever noticed how soothing sweeping the floor can be?

On this day, after some indoor puttering, I strolled to the backyard, where I became suddenly aware of the paving stones that have waited patiently for more than a year to be placed. So I got a shovel and got to work. And in setting my brain free while I did the heavy lifting, I managed to re-envision the patio into something that’s becoming quite pleasing.

And yes, I even moved the bag of mulch that had been laying where I dropped it when I took it out of my car trunk so many months ago--although I did enjoy the running joke it had become. Stays where you put it! the bag boasted. Indeed it did.

I went into the house, then out. In, out. In, out. I did this, and did that, and then I did the other thing. Talked to myself, sang along with the radio, listened to a couple of the podcasts I earnestly downloaded long ago, for when I had time. For a while I just sat silently and stared into space as the frantic chatter in my brain slowed to a gentle mutter and then trailed off.

To an extent, puttering is a gesture of respect from our brains to our physical selves. It’s not about thinking, or reading, or producing. Instead, we take on “mindless tasks” that need only the most minimal participation of the brain We acknowledge our surroundings, consider what makes us comfortable, and tend to those things, however aimlessly.

This is not the same as housekeeping, which is more the drudgery of keeping a house functional. That’s serious, stodgy work. This is the frill on the turkey, taking care of the visual clutter that tends to exacerbate the racket of a busy brain. If we let our brains lead, they drift towards the little disturbances—piles of mail, unfinished projects—so we may handle them. We wash the bedroom curtains. Hang a picture. Make things nice.

When my life gets full, puttering around the house invariably falls off my schedule. On one hand, it seems indulgent. But it’s also not something one ordinarily schedules. Puttering typically occurs spontaneously, in between all the other things one does. It is both an activity, and the absence of activity.

But I realized the other day, as I drifted around the house, that this day of hardcore puttering felt deeply therapeutic. Set it free from all constraints, my brain meandered at its own pace and in its own way, unclenching and creating space through which fresh ideas wafted. It was relaxing, and refreshing, and rejuvenating. Plus I got rid of those catalogs.

====== 261 ========

TIME AND SPACE MAY BE PERCEIVED BY A COMMON BRAIN SYSTEM

Time and space are fundamental dimensions of the universe. Those dimensions are conventionally scaled by distinctly different methods of measurement. We use hourglasses and watches to record the passage of time; we use rulers and gauge blocks to index length. Yet, Albert Einstein’s revolutionary theory of relativity upset this simplistic apple cart by suggesting that time and space are actually inseparable.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

Einstein’s startling suggestion certainly challenges common sense. Nevertheless, research in science and has recently revealed that we use a shared neurobiological mechanism to make psychological judgments of time and space.

In one key piece of behavioral evidence, researchers found that the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length people reported it to be. In a parallel fashion, the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration people reported it to be. This surprising interdependence violates the belief that—at least psychologically—space and time are independent dimensions.

Furthering the unexpected of this finding is the fact that rhesus monkeys responded in the same way as did people when given comparable testing procedures. Clearly, the psychological interdependence of space and time is not uniquely human. Nevertheless, as primates, both monkeys and humans share key neural structures like the cerebral cortex.

Source: Monkeyland, South Africa

In our own research at The University of Iowa, we sought to advance our of the common processing of time and space by attempting to replicate the psychological interdependence of space and time in the pigeon—an animal which, like all birds, does not have a cerebral cortex. Remarkably, pigeons behaved just as did humans and monkeys: the longer the temporal duration of a line, the longer in spatial length pigeons reported it to be and the longer the spatial length of a line, the longer its temporal duration pigeons reported it to be.

Source: Wikimedia Commons

When adaptive behaviors are shared by extremely distant phylogenetic relatives, it is generally assumed that their evolution independently arose in response to common survival demands. Exactly what may have encouraged the common processing of time and space by birds and mammals has yet to be determined. Still, it is clear that the very differently organized brains of birds and mammals exhibit a common functionality: a finding that is turning out to be more common than is conventionally expected.

Indeed, the cognitive prowess of birds is now deemed to be ever closer to that of both human and nonhuman primates. Those avian nervous systems are capable of far greater achievements than the pejorative “bird brain” would ever have suggested.

====== 262 ========

ARE YOU SELFISH OR DO YOU JUST HAVE HEALTHY SELF-INTEREST?

Doris believed that decent, kind and considerate people never put their own needs before those of others, especially when dealing with loved ones. She thought only selfish people who failed to care about the feeling and wishes of others would ever put their own desires first. Unsurprisingly, Doris often felt people took unfair advantage of her and did not reciprocate her selflessness. In fact, most of her family and seemed to believe Doris was a bit of a martyr and derived satisfaction from her self-sacrificial M.O. In reality, however, she often felt resentful but because of and could never bring herself to express her true feelings.



After a brief course of CBT, emphasizing rational reframing and training, Doris reported feeling much better about herself and many of her . What I call the “O2 metaphor” (O2 as in oxygen) seemed to particularly resonate with Doris:



Imagine you’re flying a commercial jet seated between a very young child and a frail, very old adult. All of a sudden the cabin loses pressure. The oxygen masks deploy and drop down in front of everybody. Now, who is the first person you put the oxygen mask on? The helpless child? The struggling senior? No, and no! As every flight attendant will announce during the safety briefing, we are instructed to put on our own mask first before attempting to help anyone else. Because if we don’t, we’ll pass out almost immediately. And then, not only will we have failed help the child and/or the senior, but we now need help ourselves. Yet if we had first taken just a few seconds to secure our own air supply, we then would have been able to attend to the people around us who might need help. Also, by taking care of ourselves first, we can often avoid the predicament of needing assistance ourselves. Thus, often, only by helping ourselves first can we be a position to offer or provide help to others. This is the main difference between healthy self-interest and selfishness.



In essence, selfishness involves satisfying your own needs at the expense of others. Healthy self-interest is simply taking care of yourself but not at the expense of others. Related to this is the unfortunate notion that it is better to give than to receive. Why? This mistaken idea has led many people like Doris to be ungracious about accepting things from others. The irony is that it can be selfish to refuse to let someone to do a kind deed for us because it deprives them of satisfaction. Hence, neither giving or receiving is “better.” It is best to give and to receive.



At the heart of Doris’s lack of assertiveness was an element of rejection and abandonment . Indeed, many people believe that if they say “no,” or put themselves first, it will lead people to dislike them and might even rupture their relationships. But when we realize if someone reacts so dramatically to a simple act of healthy expression, the problem is with them and not with the assertive person. In these cases, it’s often necessary to recalibrate the relationship and keep in mind that the other person has some significant personal and interpersonal challenges.



So, when you’re about to say “yes” when you’d really rather say “no,” think of the O2 metaphor. Also, try not to be held hostage by exaggerated fears of your relationships’ fragility. Any healthy and truly meaningful intimacy ought to easily withstand a an occasional “no” and balanced instances of enlightened self-interest. Finally, allow yourself to receive gifts and accept kind acts from others so that they don’t feel rejected and fail to derive the pleasure of giving.



Remember: Think well, Act Well, Feel well, Be well!

Dear Reader: The advertisements contained in this post do not necessarily reflect my opinions nor are they endorsed by me. — Clifford

Copyright 2018 by Clifford N. Lazarus, Ph.D. This post is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional assistance or personal mental treatment by a qualified clinician.

====== 263 ========

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN LEADERS OVERESTIMATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS?

The very best leaders are self-aware. They know their strengths and limitations. They strive to overcome those limitations and become better leaders. At the same time, it takes self- to be a leader.

What happens when self-awareness takes a backseat to too much leader self-confidence?

Research by Leanne Atwater and colleagues has shown that leaders who overestimate their effectiveness tend to be and have too much belief in their own competence and are unrealistically – believing that they will be more successful than circumstances will allow. In addition, overestimators tend to ignore criticism and thus are unlikely to see their own flaws and they don’t work to overcome their weaknesses.

What about those who underestimate their leadership effectiveness?

Underestimators tend to overemphasize their weaknesses and undervalue their true leadership strengths. This leads to a lack of self-confidence (although some underestimators may work hard to try to compensate for their perceived weaknesses).

How about leaders who are accurate in estimating their leader effectiveness?

These leaders understand their leadership strengths and shortcomings and are better able to employ their skills, and work to develop those that are lacking.

How do researchers measure estimation of leadership effectiveness?

It is done by having both leaders rate themselves and the followers/direct reports of the leader completing the same ratings of leadership effectiveness. The amount of agreement/disagreement leads to determination of leader under and over estimators, and those leaders who have a good of how they are seen by their followers.

The research also shows that leaders who are in agreement with the ratings of their followers have higher potential for promotion and lower risk of experiencing leader derailment. In other words, knowing oneself, and how one is viewed by followers, helps boost a leader’s effectiveness, success, and continued leader development.

Follow me on : http://twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 264 ========

THE SIMPLE GESTURE THAT ENHANCES HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

Source: CC0 Creative Commons

In my twelve-step fellowship, we greet each other with a hug. Whenever I see my daughters, we hug. I’m not talking about a fleeting, drive-by, bro-style pat-on-the-back hug, but rather one that is substantial, sustained, and heartfelt. Hugging another person with intention and feeling is a powerful form of recognition, an unequivocal acknowledgement that he or she matters. It is often an indicator of emotional intimacy that says, “I got you,” even—or perhaps especially—in the face of adversity.

Physiologically, hugging precipitates the release of , often referred to as the “bonding hormone” because it promotes and strengthens existing bonds and , which includes the bond between mothers and their newborn babies. In this way, hugging and other forms of caring touch likely emerged as an evolutionary imperative—facilitating connection to enhance survival. Oxytocin is a chemical of interpersonal connection, not only released through physical closeness with another person but also through other forms of bonding, such as eye contact, smiling, and attentiveness.

In addition to such psychological sustenance, hugging also provides significant benefits, starting with its reducing, calming effects. Recent research demonstrates that oxytocin is associated with decreases in the stress cortisol and norepinephrine, as well as increased levels of the feel-good neurotransmitters and serotonin (the body’s natural ). Moreover, there’s evidence that hugs and the oxytocin release that accompanies them reduce heart rate and blood pressure, increase feelings of well-being, and improve immune system function and pain tolerance.[1]

Physical embrace in the form of hugging is an action with tremendous bang for the buck. Engaging in hugs and other forms of caring touch, such as placing an arm around someone shows kindness; putting a hand on another’s shoulder communicates support. Caring touch has multiple physiological and emotional benefits for both people. It reduces blood pressure, lowers cortisol, and stimulates the release of oxytocin. Touching also releases serotonin, which soothes and regulates mood.

Caring touch is a primary language of . It provides emotional nourishment—awakening and increasing feelings of calmness, trust, and secure attachment between parents and their children. Make time to connect with your children, regardless of how busy you are. Tell them that you love them—often. Too many parents don’t do this or only do it rarely, many assuming “they already know I love them.”

One of the ironies of human nature is that all too frequently, people make an effort to be more overtly kind and considerate to other people (sometimes complete strangers) than to their own families. They may be much harder on those with whom they are closest—partners and children in particular—taking the connection and relationship for granted. This was the case with my own father, and there have been times I succumbed to this phenomenon as well.

For five years during the mid-1990s, I was the clinical director for a hospital-based treatment program that provided medically managed detoxification and rehabilitation for adults. In addition to supervising the program’s social workers and counselors, my role included functioning as a sort of vice-principal, dealing directly with violations of program rules and determining consequences. We worked with an extremely challenged and challenging population, and when patients acted out—which occurred in all manner of ways—they had to meet with me. In response to my usual intentional professional demeanor, with surprising frequency, they would ask me, “Do you ever get angry?” In response, I’d smile and assure them that since is a natural human emotion, everyone gets angry sometimes.

On my return home, I’d tell my kids that the patients at work once again asked if I ever got angry, to which my elder daughter’s reaction was a combination snort-snigger followed by an always incredulous variation on the theme of “If they only knew.” While I took considerable pride in my professional , its incongruity with the liberties of laxity I sometimes took as a parent and partner only inspired self-reproach.

We need to be consciously aware of the tendency to take the people we love and their presence in our lives for granted and treat them less well. With this awareness, we are more likely to treat them with the kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love they deserve.

is a link in the chain that connects the past with the future. How did the way your parents talked to you influence your , your self-talk? Keep in mind that how you treat and talk to your children becomes part of how they treat and talk to themselves.

Every day, you participate in myriad encounters, each of which has an impact on other people, your , and you. The impacts of your actions ripple far beyond what you know or can observe, so with conscious effort, you can build more kindness, appreciation, compassion, and love into your actions throughout the day.

The size of the actions matters not; they all have meaning and value. Everything you do that is positive makes a positive difference somehow, somewhere, and in some way, especially with your children. As expressed so elegantly by psychologist and philosopher William James, “Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference. It does.”

Copyright 2018 Dan Mager, MSW

Author of Roots and Wings: Mindful Parenting in Recovery and Some Assembly Required: A Balanced Approach to Recovery from Addiction and

====== 265 ========

THE HUNGRY CONSUMER

The Hungry Consumer

Overzealous consumerism and holiday gift-giving is a double whammy. Today might be dedicated to excessive and aggressive shopping, but it comes one day after we’re supposed to appreciate all that we have. What does that say about us?

====== 266 ========

WHY WE CONSUME SO MUCH

In agricultural societies of the past, farmers were mostly self sufficient. They worked hard but consumed little. Today we consume so much that the oceans are filled with trash. What changed?

Rising Disposable Income

A great deal has happened. To begin with, rising global affluence following the Industrial Revolution put a lot more money in people's wage packets (1). The proportion of pay being spent on non essentials like food and shelter declined, leaving a surplus of “disposable income”.

This had several important consequences. Social mobility took off. Workers began using their disposable income to communicate social success and status.

This could be one reason that the bulk of disposable income is devoted to leisure activities. Of course, such activities are also pleasurable in themselves, from enjoying sunshine in a vacation spot to fine dining, or driving luxury vehicles.

In feudal societies there had been minimal social mobility and a luxurious lifestyle was the exclusive preserve of the landed elite.

This scenario changed profoundly with the rise of the middle classes following the Industrial Revolution. Some scholars argue that the lives of ordinary people in developed countries today are more luxurious in material terms than those of the most sybaritic monarchs of the past (such as Louis 16th of France) given the variety of consumer goods available (2).

The Rise of

Social mobility preceded the steam-engine-based Industrial Revolution. Cloth manufacturers “put out” their orders, or subcontracted them, to cottage weavers. Using tallow candles that shed a bright and steady light, cotters worked night and day to fill their orders and saw a modest increase in their standard of living (3).

Due to rising wages, a person could save to buy a better home, or better furniture, or more elegant clothing. With social mobility, every person was responsible for their own station in life. Keeping up with the Joneses was born.

The period preceding the factory production of cloth is aptly named the “Industrious Revolution (3).” It was accompanied by slow but steady economic growth culminating in the modern era of cheap global shipping and runaway consumption.

When living standards rise, beneficiaries are never really content with where they are. There is always someone else who has a better home, a better car, better furniture, or sends their children to better schools, or spends more on cosmetic surgery.

Aspiring to lead a more luxurious life is a treadmill that keeps consumers in debt and constantly working harder to get where everyone else seems to be. This is a positive climate for businesses.

, Advertising, and Artificial Needs

The desire for more goods and services is enabled by modern communication technologies. This played out following the introduction of television to towns in the US West. The rise of petty thefts that followed was motivated by dissatisfaction of viewers with their standard of living compared to that depicted on the small screen (4). In marketing terms, demand for many consumer goods was created overnight.

The same phenomenon occurs on the Internet where users are exposed to luxurious living by celebrities around the globe. Of course, Internet shopping is the ultimate enabler for luxury goods because they are rarely more than a few clicks away.

The desire for luxurious, and status-signaling, products is a powerful motive for workers. Indeed Thorstein Veblen, an early sociologist, argued that “conspicuous consumption” is the main reason that people with money choose to spend it (5).

The carrots of consumption may well be more potent than the sticks of in boosting work effort. Ordinary consumers today behave rather like the elites of the past with the key difference that elites don't need to work. Even the poorest segment of our society give in to cravings for luxury goods from designer watches, shoes, and sunglasses to electronic devices and cars.

Modern societies are something of a rat where people work hard at consuming during their off time and work even harder during their hours on the job so that they can earn enough to pay their bills. The irony is that although we live like the kings of history in terms of material standard of living, we do not recognize this reality (1, 2).

The flavor of this discontent is captured in the witticism that a rising tide lifts all yachts (rather than all boats). Improvements in living conditions in developed countries are real, substantial, and historically unprecedented, although pessimists cannot accept this and focus upon the unequal distribution of wealth.

Life expectancy of US residents doubled in the 20th century, for example, but this fact is lost today in concern over the fact that rich people live longer.

We would also like their money and avarice is a cruel master. Despite having too much, we are tormented by the desire for more knowing that other people are a lot better off than we are.

====== 267 ========

DO YOU HAVE TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING?

The old green paint on our house was chipped and fading, the color chosen years ago by the former owners. So my husband and decided to get the house painted gray with a white trim. We contacted a painter who brought us two books of paint chips with pages and pages of different shades of gray.

Wandering through what seemed like fifty shades of gray, we experienced what psychologists Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward called “the paradox of choice” (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Overwhelmed by all the options, it took us over a week to make our choice.

Psychologists tell us that being able to choose is a sign of autonomy and well-being (Schwartz & Ward, 2004). Americans value freedom of choice as fundamental to our democracy, essential to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of .” We want to be free to explore our options, free to choose where we live and work and what we buy. If choice is good, then it follows that more choice is better. Or is it?

Source: By Huguenau. beer and wine aisle of a supermarket. Public domain on Wikimedia Commons.

Research has revealed that too many choices can paralyze us with indecision. Schwartz and Ward mention a supermarket that offers 285 brands of cookies, 230 soups, and 275 types of cereal. I recall the supermarket a scene in the film “Moscow on Hudson.” After years of waiting in line for coffee in Russia, a young defector played by Robin Williams, enters a New York market. Looking around frantically at all the choices in the coffee aisle and repeating “coffee, coffee, coffee,” he passes out from sensory overload.

How many choices are enough? Too much? In 1954, psychologist George Miller published an article about “the magic number seven, plus or minus two,” arguing that we can only keep 5 to 9 items in our working at a time. More than that and it becomes too much to manage.

Our economy presents us with a dizzying array of options, but, as Schwartz and his colleagues have pointed out, people actually feel worse as their choices increase (Schwartz et al, 2002) And now the Internet offers us an endless succession of posts on social , pop-up advertisements, videos, and links.

What’s the effect of all this? Is our culture offering us greater autonomy or distracting us from the important choices in our lives with a dizzying range of consumer choices?

Research has shown that people who “maximize”—trying to make the best possible choice from a wide range of options—experience greater , , self-doubt, and regret than those who “satisfice,” accepting a result good enough to meet their desired criteria (Schwartz et al, 2002).

So the next time you are faced with what seems like an endless array of options, you might want to consider what you’re really looking for. What are the important criteria that would make you satisfied with this choice?

References

Miller, G. A. (1956). The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information. The Psychological Review, 63, 81-97.

Schwartz, B., &Ward, A. (2004). Doing better but feeling worse: The paradox of choice. In P. A. Linley & S. Joseph (Eds.). in Practice (pp. 86-104). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Schwartz, B., Ward, A., Monterosso, J, Lyubomirsky, S., White, K., & Lehman, D. (2002). Maximizing versus satisficing: Happiness is a matter of choice. Journal of and Social Psychology, 83, 1178-1197.

====== 268 ========

IS INSTAGRAM MAKING YOU POOR?

There’s a game I like to play whenever I feel the gut-punch of while scrolling through social . I call it, “How much did that selfie cost?” I play this game to remind myself that many people, including my , are spending WAY TOO MUCH MONEY on things that don’t last, often racking up credit-card debt that will keep them up at night for months, all for the glory of that one fabulous photo.

How much did that selfie cost? Usually, the answer is, “Too much,” but that doesn’t necessarily stop us from feeling a twinge of pain when we look at these posts. In fact, evidence has been mounting for a while that social media may cause or increase 1. Short of logging off completely, how’s a person supposed to deal with the onslaught of social comparisons that we face each time we check in with our friends and family? In this article, I'll talk about why we NEED (yes, need) to compare ourselves, and how we can do it in a healthy way.

Comparisons are inevitable

Some people advocate a lifestyle free of comparisons. Just stop, they say, and you’ll be happier and healthier. That’s a nice sentiment, but not very practical. First of all, even if you cut yourself off from all social media, you would still have the daily reminder of other people’s lives and money through their cars, clothes, houses, etc. Long before social media, the Joneses were the target of envy. Now, we have the Joneses, the Kardashians, and everyone in between, but regardless of how or to whom we are comparing, the very ACT of comparing ourselves with others is an innate human activity, and to suggest that we can just stop is to deny the reality of human .

Back in the 1950’s Leon Festinger wrote a groundbreaking paper on 2 that has since become the foundation of an entire branch of psychology. In this work, he laid out considerable evidence for two ideas.

1. “There exists, in the human organism, a drive to evaluate his opinions and his abilities.”3

Simply put, we want to know how we measure up. We need to have a sense of how well we are living; how successfully we are doing this thing called life. The standards by which we judge ourselves may differ wildly depending on our time, our culture, our age, our tastes, etc. but the need to evaluate our life’s progress by some standard is innate and can’t be removed. It’s natural and can be healthy if done right (more on this later).

2. “To the extent that objective, non-social means are not available, people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison respectively with the opinions and abilities of others.”3

There is no objective standard that defines what it means to live well. I can measure my by objective standards like BMI, cholesterol, blood pressure, and the presence or absence of disease. When it comes to lifestyle, there is no metric that marks the line where someone is considered successful. Rather, we are left to define success for ourselves, and often we use our friends, family, colleagues, and even strangers as the scale by which we measure our progress. This can be a problem when it comes to our financial lives.

Comparisons can be toxic

The problem isn’t that we compare ourselves, it’s WHO we choose as the target for comparison. I recently surveyed a group of people about their financial lives, their financial comparisons, and their emotional well-being. What I found was quite interesting.

We tend to compare up, and that brings us down.

Regardless of how poor or wealthy people were, most of them tended to compare themselves with those they thought were better off4. That's understandable when you are on the bottom of the economic ladder (there’s nowhere to look but up), but even those earning top salaries were more likely to judge themselves against those with more. Maybe we think that by looking at those further up the ladder we’ll be motivated to improve ourselves? That’s possible, but the effect of upward comparisons was fairly toxic, from what I could see.

In every income group, people who reported making frequent, upward comparisons also reported having more debt, lower savings, higher levels, and lower satisfaction with their own situation than people who compared themselves with those less fortunate. When asked about the emotions they experienced in their own financial lives, people who compared upward were experiencing significantly more negative feelings than those who did not.

Source: Source: Morningstar, Inc.

Clearly, comparing up isn’t doing us any favors. This suggests that when we scan Instagram or and judge our own lives by the way they compare to those dream vacation photos and shiny new cars all our friends are enjoying, we may be actively sabotaging our own finances. But if Festinger was right, and social comparisons are inevitable, then how are we supposed to avoid doing damage to our hearts and our wallets?

The Exception to the Rule

In my study, there was a small group that defied the trend. Most people said that they usually compared themselves to a friend, family member, neighbor or colleague. All of these comparison targets followed the same trend: upward comparisons were most common, and they were associated with lower financial well-being.

The exception to the rule was a small group of people who said they compare themselves to a role model or mentor. In this group, regardless of whether the role model was better or worse off, financially, the person making the comparison tended to feel good about their own financial life. Not just good, but compared to the rest of the bunch, they felt great!

I followed this study with an experiment where I asked one group of people to choose a financial role model and answer a few questions about them while another group answered questions about their normal comparison targets. Both groups then answered questions about their financial habits and emotions.

The people who thought about a role model were significantly more confident and felt more in control of their financial lives after the exercise than the people who made their normal comparisons. This suggests that, while we can’t get rid of our need to compare, we might be able to make those comparisons work FOR us and not against us.

How to choose a role model (and not have it backfire)

Research into the effects of role models on and behavior suggests that we need to take care when we choose a role model, or the results can backfire5. Penelope Lockwood is a giant in this area of research, and her work suggests that people need to be careful when choosing a role model. According to the results of her studies, people who choose a role model whose success is far beyond what they themselves believe they can realistically achieve can actually become demoralized rather than energized by the comparison. This is why Warren Buffet is probably not a good financial role model. Unless what you admire and want to emulate is his humility and habit of living below his means, then using him as your comparison target will probably do you more harm than good.

So, RIGHT NOW, think about someone whose financial life or behavior you admire. You don’t need to know them or their finances well. The point is to find someone whose lifestyle you admire (even if you only have a glimpse), and that you think you can realistically achieve for yourself over time. Make sure the goal you are setting is realistic, positive, and practical. Anecdotally, when I have done this exercise with strangers, be they online survey participants, friends, colleagues, or financial advisors, there are two things that people seem to admire most:

1. Contentment.

2. A lack of stress over money.

These characteristics likely go hand in hand.

Once you have someone in mind, ask yourself the following questions:

1. What is it about their financial life or behavior that you admire?

2. What qualities or values do you think have led them to their current situation?

3. Do you have (or can you cultivate) any of those qualities or values?

4. What is ONE small thing you can do RIGHT AWAY to be just a little more like them, financially?

5. Picture yourself doing that one thing, even just once.

Role models can help channel our natural need to compare into an action-oriented energy that helps us to make progress toward a real goal. By redirecting our toxic comparisons to this role model, we can (hopefully) avoid the overspending (or under-saving) that can come from trying to keep up with the expensive selfie habits of the masses.

Conclusion

The next time you come across that gut-punch Instagram post, catch yourself. Take a breath and think about the person you just named above. Remind yourself of the qualities you admire in them, and of the good things that are around the corner for you by following in their footsteps. Maybe, then, that expensive selfie won’t seem quite so admirable in comparison.

====== 269 ========

HOW REFLECTING ON OUR POSSESSIONS CAN CURB IMPULSE BUYING

“Wilful waste makes woeful want.” – Mrs. Gaskell, Wives and Daughters, 1866.

A consistent theme of this blog is discussing ways to shop, buy, and consume prudently, and derive maximum pleasure from these activities. Unfortunately, most of us have far too many possessions to fully enjoy or use. Yet we keep adding to our store of belongings in ways big and small. Instead of increasing enjoyment, our possessions overwhelm us and our total pleasure is reduced.

Source: Row of Shoes by Duong Tran Quoc Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

Take the case of shoes. American men own an average of 11 pairs and American women own 13 pairs. Their shoe collection equates to two and a half weeks of income for the average American. Yet, people use only about three pairs regularly and own several shoes they have never worn.

The twentieth-century aphorism, “Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without,” seems laughably quaint and naïve in the light of such excessive shopping activity. We hardly use up or wear our any of our belongings, and instead of making do or doing without, we keep buying new ones.

Can we turn this ship around, so to speak? In this post, I want to write about an interesting finding from a research paper that I coauthored with two Rice University doctoral students, Jihye Jung and Nivriti Chowdhri which suggests one promising method. In the research, we studied the usefulness of a we call “reflection” to reduce people's shopping urges. It can be used “just in time” – right when an urge to buy something is experienced.

Reflection is about thinking deeply and remembering in detail how you used any one of your possessions recently. In our research, we’ve found it helps if the reflected-upon possession is something functional, like a kitchen implement, a lawn-mower or a wristwatch. Here’s the instruction from one of our studies which included 165 participants:

“In this exercise, your task is to describe your recent experience with a product. Specifically, we would like you to think of any product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 1: Take a minute and think of a product that you purchased, currently own, and have used recently. Step 2: In a few sentences, please describe this product in detail. Step 3: Now we want you to describe how you used the product on the most recent occasion. In the space provided below, explain WHEN, WHERE, HOW, and HOW LONG you used this product. Please describe your experience with the product in as much detail as possible, and please spend at least TWO MINUTES on this task.”

And here are two examples of our participants’ reflections to give you a better sense of the exercise:

Source: Shoe Wardrobe by Jakob Owens Unsplash Licensed Under CC BY 2.0

“I have a pair of light Nike running shoes I used this morning. I bought them about a year ago for about $80. The reason I bought them was because my brother has a same pair which I tried on and really liked so I bought my own. I used them this morning to go for a run. I went for a run around the neighborhood for half an hour. I really like these shoes because they're really light and they breathe easy. I use them to go on runs. Sometimes I use them at work since I do a lot of walking and they are so comfortable.” (25-year-old male).

“I just purchased a Kindle Fire. It is black. I can read books and access the internet. It opens a world of novelty to me. I read a book in bed and checked the weather this morning before even getting up. I spent about 45 mins. I also downloaded several apps. I was laying down and the ease of Kindle use allowed me to comfortably read without noise to wake up my partner.” (29-year-old female).

The study had two other conditions. One was a control condition in which participants didn’t do anything. In the other condition, they formed a plan to use a possession they hadn’t recently used, which is a common situation many of us face because we have so many things we haven't used recently.

After this experimental manipulation, study participants were given a series of five products. These were a cashmere sweater, a stainless steel watch, a coffee maker, a chair, and a box of Godiva chocolates. For each item, participants indicated how much they were willing to pay (WTP) for it. We calculated a WTP index for each participant, by standardizing each item’s WTP and then adding the values.

Source: Reflection study results/ Graphic by Utpal Dholakia

As the figure shows, those who had reflected on using their possession recently had a much lower willingness-to-pay for a basket of products than either the control or the plan conditions. To give you a sense of the actual numbers, the total WTP for the five items of those who reflected was $227, compared to $265 for the control group and $281 for the planning group. In other words, reflection about recently used possessions lowered the person’s willingness-to-pay for new items by about 14% compared to the control condition.

Reflection is like a mental “shopping the closet” visualization, and a useful way to stifle the urge to buy new things. Why does this effect occur? That will be the subject of a future blog post.

====== 270 ========

DEMOCRATS FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGING SECULAR VOTERS

Source: DonkeyHotey, Flickr, Creative Commons license

The recent midterm elections reflect the increasing clout of secular voters, a group that has grown significantly in recent years, and at least one major party is starting to take note.

According to polling data released by Pew, 17 percent of voters in 2018 were religiously unaffiliated, up from only 11 percent in 2006 and 12 percent in both 2010 and 2014. While this unaffiliated bloc grew by about half, the “Protestant/other Christian” bloc was shrinking, down from 55 percent in 2006 and 2010, to 53 percent in 2014, to only 47 percent this year.

As impressive as these figures are for the religiously unaffiliated (also known as “Nones”), the numbers suggest that there is room for even more growth. The 17 percent figure, for example, still trails the overall size of the religiously unaffiliated demographic nationwide (24 percent of the United States population as a whole, according to PRRI data, and an even larger percentage of the younger population). The Nones were in single digits a generation ago, but now they are one of the largest and youngest demographics.

The growth of the influence of Nones would appear to be good news for Democrats, as recent history shows that the unaffiliated tend to lean heavily blue. In the 2010, 2014 and 2018 midterms, about seven in ten Nones voted Democratic. By comparison, 50 percent of Catholics votes for Democrats in 2018, and slightly fewer in 2010 and 2014. Protestants have favored Republicans in each of the last four midterm elections, according to the Pew data, with white evangelicals being the most solidly in the GOP corner (75 percent in 2018 and similar figures in previous years).

For anyone familiar with the culture wars, none of these numbers should be very surprising. The Religious Right has called the GOP home since 1980 when the Majority helped elect Ronald Reagan, and the party has consistently courted the conservative Christian demographic ever since. Opposing abortion rights and LGBT rights, denying scientific consensus on issues like evolution and global warming when it conflicts with literal interpretations of the Bible, Republicans have frequently snubbed the secular demographic while catering to the party’s Christian base. As such, it’s no surprise that those who say they “never” go to church voted 68/30 for Democrats in 2018, according to the Pew data, whereas those who attend church weekly voted for Republicans 58/40.

Despite the GOP's romance with the Christian right, over the years the Democratic Party has never openly pursued the nonreligious demographic. On the contrary, elected Democrats have usually been older, oblivious the growing secularity of the population, and they’ve often accepted the much-repeated but inaccurate claim that America is a “very religious country.” Although a large and growing portion of the American population is secular, and even many who claim religious affiliation are lukewarm about it, establishment Democrats have unfortunately been slow on the uptake.

Finally, however, there are signs that Democrats are starting to appreciate the importance of the Nones. In what might be a first, the Massachusetts Democratic Party this month passed a resolution recognizing the importance of the religiously unaffiliated demographic. (Full disclosure: I was involved in drafting the resolution.) The resolution, which can be seen here, recognizes the “value, ethical soundness, and importance of the religiously unaffiliated” and affirms that “the ‘Nones’ are a group that, as much as any other, advocates for rational public policy based on sound science and universal humanistic values.” The document is also critical of the use of claims of “religious liberty” as a means of justifying policy that threatens the rights of women and minorities.

Time will tell whether other states, or even the national party, will follow the Massachusetts lead, but it seems clear that many are starting to recognize that the secular demographic is not going away. Earlier this year, for example, several members of Congress even formed a Congressional Freethought Caucus to solidify the presence of secular values on Capitol Hill. Perhaps not surprisingly, all members of the caucus so far are Democrats.

As the secular demographic grows and flexes its muscle, time will tell whether the GOP makes an effort to attract them. Seculars are not monolithic, so traditional Republican mantras of low taxes and deregulation might resonate with some, but the secular numbers within the GOP are likely to remain relatively low so long as the Christian right is steering the ship. As such, if demographics continue to trend secular, at some point Republicans will have to consider whether there is a future in Bible-based .

On : @ahadave

====== 271 ========

7 REASONS WHY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE HAVING LESS SEX

In our highly sexualized and increasingly permissive culture, you might think that young adults are having more than ever before. If so, you would be wrong.

In a lengthy and very popular cover story in the December 2018 issue of The Atlantic magazine, “The Sex Recession,” Kate Julian argues that “young people are launching their sex lives later and having sex less frequently than members of previous generations.” The question is why.

Among the evidence Julian cites:

“In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t.”

"People now in their early 20s are two and a half times as likely to be abstinent as Gen Xers were at that age; 15 percent report having had no sex since they reached adulthood.”

In the U.S., “about 60 percent of adults under age 35 now live without a spouse or a partner.” (Of course, that does not mean they live without sex – more on that later.)

In Japan in 2015, 43 percent of young people (ages 18 to 34) were virgins. Married people were not having much sex, either: 47 percent said it had been more than a month since they had sex.

Julian mentioned in passing many possible reasons for what she calls “the sex recession,” but underscored 6 as having come up most often in her research and interviews. (She combined parental pressure with hook-up culture; I’m separating them. I’ve also changed the order of the reasons.) I’ll recount her reasons first. Then I will add a 7th reason, my own. I’ll also explain what I think Julian got wrong. I’ll end by suggesting that the real issue is one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology: What are humans really like?

Here are The Atlantic’s top 6 reasons for the sexual recession.

1. Parental Pressure

It’s their ’ fault. That’s one of the reasons author Kate Julian posits for the decline in sex among young adults. Invoking the term of derision, “helicopter parents,” she says that parents’ “about their children’s educational and economic prospects” has increased. Parents are urging their kids to focus on building their credentials in high school and college rather than investing in . They are also supervising their kids more closely, leaving them with less free time for fooling around away from watchful eyes.

2. Bodily Self-consciousness, Distraction, Deprivation, and Other Sources of Inhibition

Young adults may be having less sex because their potential for being aroused is being undermined in many ways. Digital distractions are among the most obvious potential culprits. Sleep deprivation doesn’t help, either. Having a negative , or feeling self-conscious about your naked body, can also stand in the way of sexual fulfillment, and Julian suggests that today’s young adults may struggle more with these issues.

If, as some have suggested, anxiety and are on the rise in the younger generations, that, too, could account for some of the decrease in sex. Anti-depressants can also undermine sexual desire.

3. The Problem with Apps

It might seem like the proliferation of dating apps has made it easier to find dating partners, but that is not necessarily so. Kate Julian found that Tinder tends to be a huge waste of time. It takes an average of more than 60 swipes to get one match, and many matches do not result in a 2-way exchange of text-messages.

And, of course, the matches are not evenly distributed. The “highly photogenic” people, as Julian tactfully puts it, are the ones finding dating apps most useful.

The expectation that people will use dating apps to connect with other people has, Julian believes, a troubling implication. The kinds of casual overtures that people used to make, now seem creepy. Apparently, that even applies to striking up conversations in bars.

If dating apps are wildly inefficient and ineffective, and it is problematic to ask people out (even if you have gotten to know them a bit, for example, by working in the same building or playing on the same ), then finding opportunities to have sex is going to be difficult, too.

4. Hook-ups Instead of Romantic Relationships

If young people were having copious amounts of hook-up sex, then maybe their overall rates of sex would not be decreasing, even though they are dating less often and are less likely to have special romantic relationships. Actual rates of casual sex, though, have not lived up to the hype.

Here is Kate Julian’s summary of the findings from Lisa Wade’s book, American Hookup: The New Culture of Sex on Campus:

“Roughly one-third were…”abstainers” – they opted out of hook-up culture entirely. A little more than a third were “dabblers” – they hooked up sometimes, but ambivalently. Less than a quarter were “enthusiasts,” who delighted in hooking up. The remainder were in long-term relationships.”

The percentages probably translate into something like this:

33 percent, abstainers

35 percent, dabblers

23 percent, enthusiasts

9 percent, long-term relationships

5. Sex Is Bad or Painful More Often Than We Realize

Another reason the rate of sex may be decreasing is that, more often than we realize, the sex that young adults are having is bad sex or painful sex. They are also more willing to say “no thanks” to having any more of it.

Young adults are experiencing more of the kinds of sex that is popularized in , such as anal sex and choking (erotic asphyxiation). Julian points to a study showing that the percent of women in their late 20s who had tried anal sex had doubled from 20 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 2012. Research shows, she says, that “in the absence of high-quality sex , teen boys look to porn for help sex.”

Plenty of women are not enjoying anal sex or vaginal intercourse. In 2012, Julian notes, 30 percent of women experienced pain during vaginal intercourse and a whopping 72 percent said that the anal sex they experienced was painful.

Orgasms in the context of hookups with a new partner are strikingly rare. In the study Julian described, just 31 percent of men and a jaw-droppingly low 11 percent of women experienced under those conditions.

One of the sex researchers Julian interviewed, Debby Herbenick, suggests a positive interpretation of the decline in the frequency with which young people are having sex. Today’s adults feel freer to say no to sex they don’t want.

Julian also believes that women are now valuing their female more. She seems to attribute that to their disappointment with men and romantic relationships. (I think that interpretation, on its own, is demeaning. My reading of the relevant information is that appreciation for our friends is growing, even apart from any bad experiences with heterosexual romantic relationships.)

6. People Are Satisfying Their Sexual Desires, Just Not with Other People

Although rates of intercourse have been decreasing – the main finding that the Atlantic article was trying to explain – that doesn’t mean that people are not experiencing sexual pleasure. One of the studies Julian mentioned found dramatic increases in rates of from 1992 to 2014 – double for men (in 2014, 54 percent said that they masturbated in a given week) and more than triple for women (26 percent).

The increase could be linked to the greater accessibility of porn over time. Other products and services that facilitate sexual experiences without involving other humans are also becoming more popular – sex dolls, for example.

Stop Blaming Single People

Kate Julian said she started out expecting to say more about “the benefits of loosening social conventions, and of less couple-centric pathways to a happy life.” But she ended up focusing on other concerns instead. One problem, I think, is that her sources were comprised overwhelmingly of people who were not ever going to offer an affirming perspective on single life.

Perhaps she relied on what those people told her and did not read the relevant original sources. These claims that she made, for example, are somewhere between misleading and just plain wrong:

“Not having a partner – sexual or romantic – can be both a cause and effect of discontent. Moreover, as American social institutions have withered, having a life partner has become a stronger predictor than ever of well-being.”

No, getting married does not improve people’s or

You would think, from reading those claims, that people who marry become happier and healthier. But by 2012, there were already 18 studies that followed the same people over time, as they went from being single to getting married. They did not become happier than they were when they were single, except sometimes for a brief “honeymoon effect” early on. The most recent and most sophisticated studies show that people who marry do not become healthier, either, and depending on the measure, sometimes become less healthy.

What about Julian’s claim about the growing importance, over time, of having a life partner? If she were right about that, then should be linked to greater well-being for younger people than for older ones. A 2017 study by Dmitri Tumin examined the links between marriage and health for people born in the decades starting in 1955, 1965, and 1975. Getting married did not mean getting healthier for the men or the women in any of the three cohorts.

Tumin looked at his data in all sorts of ways, but only found one hint that getting married was good for health: Among the oldest women (those born between 1955 and 1964), those who married for the first time and stayed married for at least 10 years become slightly healthier than when they were single. But for the comparable women in the middle group (born between 1965 and 1974), there were no health benefits whatsoever. And for the youngest group (born between 1975 and 1984), there was a slight, though statistically insignificant, deterioration in their health after marrying. That’s just the opposite of what Julian claimed.

Frequency of sex is declining most for married people, not singles

Perhaps the most relevant finding is about the rate of sex, over time, among single and married people. Analyses of survey data from 1989 through 2014 showed that Americans today are having less sex. More importantly, as I noted in my discussion of the results of that study:

“The decline in sexual frequency was not the same for everyone. The decrease in having sex was especially steep for people who were married or divorced and much less so (if at all) for lifelong single people.”

Maybe instead of spending 15 printed magazine pages explaining the decreasing frequency of sex among young adults, most of whom are single, Julian should have instead focused more of her on married people. Why is it that their rates of sex are decreasing the most?

7. (My suggestion, not The Atlantic’s) The Rise of Individualism Means That People Have More Opportunities to Live the Lives They Want, Not the Ones Dictated by Norms or Pressures

The first sentence of “The Sex Recession” was, “These should be boom times for sex.” Continuing, Kate Julian added:

“The share of Americans who say sex between unmarried adults is “not at all wrong” is at an all-time high. New cases of HIV are at an all-time low. Most women can – at last – get birth control for free, and the morning-after pill without a prescription. [With regard to practices such as polyamory and anal sex]...our culture has never been more tolerant of sex in just about every permutation.”

And yet, the frequency with which young people are having sex is declining. So is the rate at which married people are having sex.

Perhaps one of the most fundamental questions in all of psychology is, what is human ? What are humans really like? It would be impossible to remove every social pressure, every norm, every obligation, and just see how people act. But as more and more constraints get lifted, such as the ones Julian described, we can edge a little closer to seeing what humans would do if left to their own devices.

“Our for sex is supposed to be primal,” Julian noted, and yet people often “pick messing around online over actual messing around.” Maybe, she suggests, “the human sex drive is more fragile than we thought.” Also consistent with that interpretation is the growing recognition of asexuality as a sexual orientation and not a sexual dysfunction.

Julian quotes Emily Nagoski, author of Come as You Are, who has an apt answer to all the talk about how fundamental sex is:

====== 272 ========

YOU ARE (NOT) RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWING EVERYTHING

I was catching up with my friend Helen at a coffee shop in Chicago. Beautiful and , Helen is the kind of person you take one look at and you just know she has it all together. She tells me she has never struggled with at any point in her life. She was good at academics. She felt good about how she looked. She was self-assured socially and in her .

Then she became a mother.

“My confidence was destroyed. That was when I first felt incompetent,” Helen told me. “I had always felt competent at work and in my life, and that made me feel confident. It took me about three years to realize what was going on as a mother. I didn’t feel confident about my choices, I didn’t feel confident about my plans.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Well, I would ask myself, ‘Is this going to result in the outcome I’m looking for?’ And there’s no manual for that.”

“So what outcome are you looking for?”

“I want a successful child, right? I want a happy kid, and I want a successful kid. I didn’t know if I was making all the right choices. I actually feel like we parent in the age of a ton of research. So you have no excuse either. You can't fly blind. If you're flying blind, It’s because you're not doing your job. You're not reading and you're not doing your job.”

Source: Rawpixel on Unsplash

“Wow, that is a big job. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I research. Research helps us understand and those insights can really help. But, somehow, the way you talk about research feels like a terrible burden.”

“Exactly,” Helen went on, “I almost feel like the preponderance of literature out there actually makes it worse, because I feel responsible to know the answer. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a one year old. I should know what I'm supposed to do with a three year old. I've always said ‘I wish I had a manual that would tell me how I should react in every situation.’ But in some ways, we almost have that and that's what's killing us. I know what I should be doing and and I feel like I have to have the answer at every moment and I just don’t. I don’t.”

“Well that is quite a ShouldStorm right there!” I responded. We laughed and took a sip of our coffees. “So, I think you are saying that having the right, research-based answer in each specific situation is what would make you feel confident.”

“Yes,” she said emphatically, “The responsibility to all the literature out there is killing us. There is a world of literature out there and I know if I just look hard enough, I can find those answers.” Helen looked tired.

“That’s really interesting, because I am a pediatrician and have studied extensively, and I don’t have all of those answers.”

Source: Photo by Eliabe Costa on Unsplash

What if we did have a manual for every situation?

Helen had just described something I had identified through my work: one of the three untrue laws of the Shouldstorm. Untrue Law #1: We need to get it right, all the time. Often we don’t realize we believe this, but we act like we do. We criticize ourselves or feel burdened by worry if we don’t get it just right in each situation as parents. Even if you recognize that this is being too hard on ourselves, we still wish we could do it.

Now, for a moment, imagine this from your child’s perspective. Your parents tell you that they love you no matter what, and that it’s okay to make mistakes. But they are hard on themselves if they don’t get it just right all the time. Will you believe them? Will you be confused and wonder if they mean it about loving you? Won’t you think that really the rule is to get it just right all the time? Won’t it make you worry?

Helen wants a successful, happy child. I am certain that a successful child is not a child who has to know exactly what to do in each circumstance. That is a burdened and unhappy child.

What Research is For (Hint: It’s not Cyber-Chondria)

Research findings can be profoundly helpful to us, but that depends on how we view them. When research (which has advanced our ) becomes a burden, an obligation and a long list of shoulds, it robs is of the core of what makes us good parents. Well designed scientific research is a genuine good— if we understand it for what it is. Research is a tool; a knowledge base and a way of producing knowledge. Here’s the thing about tools: they are only as a good as the way we use them.

In September 2017, the BBC reported a growing problem: cyber-chondria. They reported that a of researchers had found that “Worrying excessively about , and going for unnecessary appointments and tests, is a growing problem - fueled by looking up symptoms on the internet.” This “health ” even produced physical symptoms like persistent chest pains and headaches. We doctors call that somatization, and we see anxiety producing physical symptoms quite often in pediatric practice.

"Dr Google is very informative, but he doesn't put things in the right proportion,” they observed. Not even the doctor’s reassurance relieved the patient’s worry. The researchers found that the answer was not more tests, or making their doctor read all the articles the worried patients were reading, but rather anxiety-reducing .

This shows up in parents too. Untrue Law of the ShouldStorm #1 convinces us as parents that We need to get it right, all the time. Part of that is feeling like we need to know. Some of us choose the research, some of us choose talking to our neighbors and doing what they do, some of us read online groups. And it creates a terrible unsettled feeling that something is wrong with us and our kids.

Let’s walk out of the ShouldStorm and free our kids, as we free ourselves, from the burden of having to know it all. Real confidence is about . Real success is about being safe in our own skins, not jumping out of them from anxiety. A truly happy child, a truly happy parent is able to connect and enjoy other people, undistracted by nagging fears. The more we try to get it just the way we should, the more rigid we become. The Shoulds cut us off from our kids, and that’s nobody’s idea of success.

Is it possible to use research to help our ?

How can we use the wonderful advances child development knowledge in a way that builds our confidence? We can start by watching our sources.

Websites: Watch out! I give my patients a list of reliable websites and steer them away from the ones that raise anxiety. In general, good advice equips and bad advice makes you anxious. When in doubt try the AAP for parent questions or the CDC for reliable medical science.

Social : Double watch out! Social media can connect you with supportive who care for you or share encouraging articles. Or it can introduce you to misinformation and criticism straight from the ShouldStorm. Is your heart rate going up and your breathing getting shallow? You probably just got shoulded on.

Your pediatrician: We love you and your kids. We took an oath and we meant it. We are committed to helping you do a great job. But try to go easy on us, because, as the BBC reports: "People now go to their GPs with a whole list of things they've looked up on the internet, and the poor GP, five minutes into the consultation, has four pages of reading to do.”

====== 273 ========

THE VERY HUMAN FUTURE OF TV IN AN AGE OF AI

Source: Secret Cinema

A couple of months ago, I was invited to speak at the Edinburgh TV Festival, as part of the “How to Win the Future” session with futurist Monika Bielskyte and blockchain-for-TV startup founder Ashley Turing, moderated by the Irish comedian and TV show host Dara O’Briain.

I spoke about the need for romanticism in business, which was less of a foreign concept than at other industry events in which I have taken part. Television is a romantic business: Inherently, it’s all about imagining other worlds and creating meaning through powerful storytelling; it’s about adventure, drama, extreme emotions, and human connections.

Disrupted by FAANGs and AI

The industry is nervous, though: Both public broadcasters and increasingly also pay-TV that the so-called FAANGs ( , Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) might be eating their lunch. In Edinburgh, just before our session, Labor Party Jeremy Corbyn even proposed a “journalism tax” for tech companies.

Further, (AI) has arisen as a threat to the very heart of TV—storytelling. While AI is already superior in process automation and data processing, it is now also invading inherently human turf: and emotions. We have already seen AI-composed music, fashion design, journalism, even paintings, poetry, movies, and more. While the results are not convincing yet, the impetus of data-driven “forced reductionism,” to use Joichi Ito’s term, will undoubtedly affect TV as well.

There are two scenarios: We can use AI to enhance human ingenuity and creative expression; or we can use it to end up in a dystopian, uber-algorithmic content farm where we essentially get to consume the data we produce.

Storytellers have seen this looming conflict all along, but their visions have mostly been lopsided toward the dystopian: War of the Worlds, The Matrix, Minority Report, Her, 1984, The Lobster, Ex Machina, Frankenstein, The Truman Show, Westworld, and Black Mirror, to mention just a few. As Monika Bielskyte pointed out in her talk, when we imagine the future, we tend to do it in dystopian terms. She illustrated her point by showing us the Google results for “utopian cities”: Even that term yielded a collection of images that look like Gotham.

There is never going to be a shortage of or outright cynicism. This is why in this day and age, storytellers have a right and a responsibility to inspire and provoke, not simply to depress their audiences so they turn away. In fact, what should give the TV networks hope is the very fact that they can give us hope and an impetus to make change.

This can start by creating positive narratives for AI, featuring an AI as a warm, friendly, trusted, and perhaps even funny character — a pursuit that novelist and Hollywood consultant Aditi Khorana recently facilitated in a workshop at the House of Beautiful Business conference.

Connecting us with the other

Moreover, TV makers should remember that at its best TV is a shared experience that fosters and belonging, forms and meaning, and strengthens citizenship and diversity. Television is still a powerful medium when it comes to showing us and connecting us with “the other,” and in our fragmented or divided societies this capacity is ever more important.

No wonder diversity and inclusion were critical topics in Edinburgh. The TV industry has powerful means to strengthen it: first of all, it can produce content that shows the full range of humanity, from the local pub in Brighton to a micro-enterprise in Nairobi, different cultures, ethnicities, generations, and identities, especially those that are fluid, non-binary, contradictory. Second, it can feature a diverse cast of characters and create more roles for these identities both on camera and off. “Representation starts both in front of and behind the camera,” Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina told Variety in a new interview.

Moreover, stories will become even more powerful in the future as we will have more unstructured time on our hands and may need more of both on the human condition and a device to escape from it. Storytellers can use AI and Artificial Emotional Intelligence (AEI) to augment, celebrate, and shape their stories.

Here are some ideas for TV makers:

Co-create stories with AI. AI can compile plot options based on AEI (scanning and analyzing human emotions) and/or the personal input and track record of humans, aggregated data, and predictive analytics. It can thus help crowdsource content and narratives and inspire human participation. AI could help personalize VR/AR and other immersive content: AEI, volumetric capture (as used by the award-winning Movie Vestige), AI avatars, or transmedia storytelling can make us feel more and create stronger emotions as well as perhaps even new emotions. We humans like to gather. Can the collective, social experience of TV be the ultimate differentiator and humanizer? What’s the Secret Cinema of TV? What does “TV-as-experience” look like? Aside from public viewing or gamification, are there business models such as virtual viewing communities or even co-viewing spaces similar to co-working spaces? Is there room for a “WeView”? Make it realer than real. In-the-Real-Life still beats AI, from Twitch to life-streaming (e.g. Ice Poseidon) to the ultimate gamification and reality TV of life. Stretch and overcome time: from time-shifting (DVR) to bingewatching (Netflix) to "holotime" (the past, present, and future of characters and viewers intertwined). What if TV networks co-monetized with viewers (based on their true data sovereignty)? What if they used AI and Blockchain technology to empower consumers to hold on to their personal data and consumption data and sell it to advertisers/networks, or give it away to non-profits to enhance social impact storytelling? Can there maybe be a token-based revenue share between networks, talent, and data-sovereign viewers? Is there a market for the Mozilla ("Internet for people, not profit") of TV (the anti-FAANG, so to speak; see Facebook’s patent to eavesdrop on TV consumption) with the result of more loyal audiences in the long run?

The only way to beat AI is to create stories that AI doesn’t know yet. If we do so, then TV can remind us of what it means to be human.

Only then will we look at the screen and still see ... us.

====== 274 ========

WHAT'S YOUR STORY? LIFE AS NARRATIVE

Source: unsplash

Whether or not we are truly inventors of our own lives, we certainly are inventors of the story of our lives. For some, this story is clear and in the forefront of their minds, becoming what drives them, what determines how they spend their time and energy. For many others the story is less clear, fragmented, or seemingly outside their awareness but often easily seen by others: Jake always casts himself as the victim, Sara the martyr, Carly always thinks things will work out for the best, while Henry is always braced for the worst.

Our story is shaped by the stories of others, those important to us who were not only role models but who also doled out their own particular philosophies of life. And of course, there are our own experiences and values. Our story becomes the lens through which we view life’s events, our with others; it determines what can expect of ourselves and life itself.

So, what’s your story? Here are some questions to help you define yours. As you answer them, think not in terms how you think things ought to be, but rather how you think and behave in everyday life.

How safe is the world, and other people?

This is about trust, about and . Bad things happen out of the blue; the other shoe always drops; others are out to screw you or scam you. You need to be cautious, alert, take what people say with a grain of salt, trust your family or your kind, but be wary of everyone else.

Or no, sure there are always some bad apples, even dangerous people, but most people are good, considerate, willing to help or at least turn the other cheek. Sure, bad things happen, but also a lot of good things happen as well if we just look for them. You don’t want to be naïve, but it’s okay to trust and believe that things will or can be worked out.

How do you treat others?

This obviously follows from the first. If the world is unsafe, if others can’t be fully trusted and you are wary, you hold back, you keep your distance. Or no, your stance is more aggressive than that: it’s every man / woman for his or her self. Or there’s a middle ground of politeness and courtesy to those you don’t know, if not necessarily a friendliness. Or your values, , and outlook cause you to reach out, always give the other guy the benefit of the doubt, and, if possible, a helping hand. The world is our family.

What’s your measure of or success?

For some it is measured by the attainment of in the bigger world — achievement in a , wealth, professional reputation. For others it may be a contentment that comes from the support and love of family, ; for it may be measured by the happiness of their children. For still others happiness is not measured by outcome but by doing — being creative or doing what gives you meaning, competing against your rivals and hopefully coming out on top, or some combination of all the above.

Think of what you strive or hope for, but also what brings you happiness in the everyday.

How do you reach your measure of happiness / success?

You put your head down, stay focused on the goal, and work hard. No, you follow your instincts, your imagination, those wisps of , your . Or you succeed by helping others succeed — encouraging and supporting them in their own quest for happiness, being the best role model you can be. Or no, you reach your goals by keeping an eye on your rivals and making the most of their weaknesses.

Why do bad things happen?

They just do; they help us see and appreciate the good; there is really no bad but only what we decide to call bad; it is God’s will, God’s test for us; they are pay-backs for our wrongs. We don’t know.

What is the purpose of life, your life?

See above.

Do you have major regrets, ? How has it shaped your view of life, your image of yourself?

Regrets and guilt can certainly teach us lessons, but often their wounding overshadows and outlasts the . Think of that poor secret service agent who 40 years later is still haunted and feeling responsible for the death of John Kennedy, and still unable to himself. Regrets and guilt can cause us to stay stuck in the past, feel that we are not entitled to happiness, drastically turn our view of life and ourselves upside down.

If you were to pick one word to describe the overall tone of your life what would it be?

As you work through these questions, is there a theme? If you had a pick a song to be the soundtrack of your life, what would that song be?

In one sentence, what advice would you most want to pass onto your children, your grandchildren?

So, what have you discovered? What is the story that you consciously or unconsciously tell yourself about the of relationships, the world? How has this story shaped your expectations and defined your purpose and about your life and life itself?

One final question: Do you want to keep your story, or do you want to change it?

====== 275 ========

SPRINTING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE

Your kids likely fell in the house for the Thanksgiving holiday yearning for a break—wanting to luxuriate in the comfort of their bed for long hours, ready to savor home cooked meals, and eager for opportunities to dash out and see their from home. Who can blame them? They have likely logged about twelve weeks of classes and stomached some gross stuff in the dining hall and had their fair share of social disappointments at college. Nevertheless, most students experience a mixture of feelings with the anticipation of returning to campus. They are generally eager to regain the independence they have cultivated and to hang out with college buddies with whom they are experimenting with their new sense of self. Yet, without a doubt they are stressed about what is to come in the next few weeks---final exams and projects and trying to make it to the finish line intact.

Source: Tim Gouw/ Unsplash

As a college professor for over twenty years, I can say with great certainty that this becomes a trying time for everyone. Students as well as faculty have gotten that glorious taste of a bit of rest and relaxation, more time with family and friends and a bit more indulgence. It is hard to regain the energy for the last push of the semester which is completely necessary to finish with greater success. The Thanksgiving holiday becomes a bit of a tease—-like those tiny bags of pretzels on an airplane when you are actually starving. So, when they head back to school, students can benefit by doing the following:

====== 276 ========

AN OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK AND THE FIRST MEMORIES OF LIFE

Source: Pixabay

In June, while attending a professional conference in Toronto, I decided to take a break and go for a swim at the hotel pool. As I was signing in and picking up a towel, the pool attendant warmly greeted me. She seemed genuinely interested in how I was doing and hoped that I was enjoying my stay at the hotel. We talked for a few minutes, and I learned that Julianna was 20 years old and studying to become a masseuse. While I was swimming, several other patrons entered the pool area, and I noticed that Julianna also graciously welcomed each person with a warm smile and brief conversation.

Julianna's behavior stood out to me because she seemed to make an effort to provide a few special moments for the individuals who showed up at the pool. I wanted to know more about her, and after my swim, I asked Julianna if she would be willing to share one of her first with me. She readily agreed, and I wrote down the following. "The first thing that I remember is playing outside at recess. There were dolls on the playground that seemed to revolve around. I played on the swings a lot, and I fell off the swing that day." I asked her, "What part do you remember most in the memory?" Julianna, responded, "How I felt when I was on the swing. It was one of the happiest moments of my life at that time."

After Julianna rendered her early recollection, I said that I would try to say something about its possible meaning. I began by stating, "You have an outlook on life, and you try to make the best out of situations and often find them to be special." She nodded in agreement, "This is how I am." I added, "At the same time, your and other people in your life tease you in a friendly way about your persistent level of optimism." Julianna laughed heartily: "This happens a lot."

I then asked Julianna one more question. "How are you so optimistic given all the ups and downs that we all face in life?" She related, "I am sentimental and it is natural for me. There are a lot of soulless people, and I haven't lost my soul." At that point, it started to get busy at the counter, and I thought that it would be best if we talked more at a later point. Julianna said that she was working the next day and looked forward to seeing me again.

When I came to the swimming pool early the next day, I was told that Julianna would not be on duty until the afternoon. Unfortunately, I had a plane to catch and soon had to leave the hotel. I did not get to see her again. In reflecting on Julianna's first memory, I wondered about her statement about "the soul" and its relationship to optimism and early recollections. Intuitively, I thought that it may have something to do with maintaining a childlike wonder and enjoying what life offers in the moment. At the same time, I needed to hear directly from Julianna on a face-to-face basis about her perception of life.

We all have an opportunity to learn more from people like Julianna. Perhaps it may be the service worker we see regularly who always seems to be in a good mood. There may be a neighbor, a friend, or a relative that stands out for maintaining a positive outlook on life. In my experience, often these individuals relate early recollections that are optimistic and seem to provide an emotionally uplifting quality. Follow-up conversations can be enlightening relating to how such persons sustain a sense of hopefulness despite encountering adversities in living. We need to hear more from those who have a "natural" optimistic outlook in their early memories and in their way of being.

====== 277 ========

I DIDN'T SAY THAT! YOU MUST BE IMAGINING IT

Source: Photo by rawpixel

"Are you wearing that dress to dinner?" My friend Amy can say that with just the right tone of voice. You know the one that lets you know she is in disbelief that you would actually do such a horrible thing. But what happens if you call her on it? "Amy, you don't like my dress?" She responds, "I didn't say that." She didn't say the words, true, but she indirectly implied that my choice of attire was completely unacceptable.

There's lots of ways that "You are so wrong but I didn't say that" communication is used. Questions about something that you know they already know is one example. "Have you bought your mother's birthday gift yet?" sounds innocent enough if you just look at or listen to the words. But with the right tone and context (your wife knows you haven't bought the gift) it's actually an implied criticism. The speaker's intentions are hidden in a way they can be denied. Instead of saying, "You're mother's birthday is tomorrow and once again you haven't bothered to get a gift," asking the question gets the same message across and the speaker can claim there's no criticism intended. The speaker claims innocence and avoids responsibility for their criticism. "All I did was ask a question. What's wrong with you today?"

Implied criticism can also be found in offers of help. "I can help you with baking," said when you bring banana bread to the office, clearly implies that your banana bread is a failure. A more subtle implied criticism would be, "I always find sour cream helps banana bread stay moist." If you confront the person, it's easy for her to say, "I was only trying to help." "There are art classes available at the community center," is a thumbs down review of your latest painting. But of course the person who offers that suggestion sees herself as trying to help. Even compliments can be put downs. When Gloria tells Jim, in front of Greg her husband, that Jim is the most thoughtful spouse she knows, she's also saying that her husband is not as thoughtful. But if Greg comments, Gloria can say, "It wasn't about you, can't I compliment Jim?"

Implied criticism has advantages to the speakers. They say what they think in an indirect way, usually something critical, and at the same time can deny they intended to give the message that you heard. It's not their fault you're upset--you're over reacting or hearing something they didn't say.

How do you cope with implied criticism? If the individual regularly criticizes you in this way, you'll probably pull back and start to avoid the person. You'll lose trust because they aren't being honest about what they are communicating. For some , you may prefer to do this. At the same time, it's possible the individual isn't aware of how his communication is received and truly sees himself as trying to help. If the relationship is one you want to keep, then asking directly may be the best way to save a relationship that is important to you. "Are you saying that you don't like my banana bread?" "No, not at all, I was just giving a suggestion." "Okay, just checking because it wasn't clear." If you regularly ask the other person to clarify his meaning, you'll probably see a change. But even if you don't, you won't be as frustrated.

====== 278 ========

SAY GOODBYE: IT'S TURKEY DROP TIME

Cold weather and the holiday season are upon us, and apparently, so too are the tough relationship decisions. Should you stay or should you go? Now, it seems, is peak decision time.

Yes, we're entering prime break-up season. College students everywhere are heading home for Thanksgiving and returning to school, single. And is it only college students? Probably not. The winter and its many romantic holidays (e.g., Christmas, New Year's Eve, Valentine's Day) are on the horizon, making now a good time for unhappy people to make a change.

The Turkey Drop

The Turkey Drop is the catchy phrase that aptly captures the spike in romantic break-ups that occurs annually in late fall. Data from McCandless and Byron, who examined changes in status, corroborate the Turkey Drop. A dramatic rise in romantic break-ups seems to occur during the few weeks leading up to the Christmas holiday.1

On one hand, it seems rather heartless: initiating a break-up so close to the holidays. However, around Thanksgiving may be the first chance that freshmen have to make the break in person, rather than over text, the phone, or Skype. By late-November, the challenges that come with long-distance may have taken their toll, and new social circles may make the prospect of single-life appealing. Relationships that once felt like forever relationships, now might feel like they belonged to younger, different people.

Holiday Pressure

The Turkey Drop may also extend beyond the college years: people unhappy in their relationships might be motivated to end their relationships before the hoopla of the holiday begins. This would avoid holiday gift giving pressure, mandatory New Year's eve plans, and Valentine's Day expectations that might come with a continued relationship.

Noteworthy too is the spike in engagements that occur around the holiday season. According to Statista, nearly 20% of proposals occur in December. If a relationship isn't headed towards marriage, perhaps mid-fall is a reasonable time to end a relationship and avoid the potential pressure of engagement season.

Divorces Aren't Tied to the Turkey Drop

If you're married, your relationship is probably safe from the dreaded Turkey Drop. Despite the seasonal spike in break-ups right around Thanksgiving among couples, the story looks different for married couples. Researchers out of the University of Washington analyzed divorce filings over a fifteen year period, and discovered that a spike in filings tends to occur during March and August.

Why might divorces peak during March and August? Rather than succumbing to the Turkey Drop, the researchers speculated that couples who are already in a committed partnership may view the holidays with hope. Married couples might imagine the possibility of a return to happier times, a stitching back together existing open wounds, or the opportunity for gestures that will change the current direction of a struggling relationship. Come March, after the winter and holidays fail to meet expectations, couples may be in a position to take the final step.

The same story applies to August, but this time the focus is on family vacations. The researchers hypothesize that couples in struggling marriages might put their hope in a wonderful family summer vacation, and when it does not meet their expectations, they may make the decision to formally end their marriages.

1. The other break-up season? Late February/early March: a spring-cleaning of sorts that appears to occur right before most colleges have their spring breaks.

====== 279 ========

IS #THANKSGAYVING IN YOUR NEWS FEED?

Did you notice any posts on your newsfeed this week about ‘Gaysgiving’ ‘Friendsgiving’ or 'ThanksGAYving'? Holidays of any kind are a time when families get together, share food, fight, makeup, and generally just do what families do. For many in the LGBTQ community, however, holidays can be a difficult time of the year.

Source: Pexels.

Often they may not be welcome at their family gatherings, or, if they are, they may only be welcome so long as they don’t bring their partner, or don’t do anything to ‘out’ themselves. This puts many people in a difficult position. How do you choose between the of your family traditions and the desire to include your partner in new traditions? Luckily, queers are nothing if not and this resiliency shows up every year during the holidays when groups of queer get together to re-invent family holiday gatherings and to make sure that the magic of the holidays isn’t lost, even if a connection to one's family of origin has been. While today we may see photos of these friendly gatherings with catchy hashtags like #GaysGiving #ThanksGAYving or #FriendsGiving, the tradition extends back beyond the birth of the hashtag and is commonly referred to as having a Chosen Family.

The term is a bit of a euphemism. It shouldn’t be interpreted as meaning that a young LGBTQ person goes out and finds themselves a new mom and dad and some queer siblings. It just means that the friends they do make within the LGBTQ community often play a more important role in their lives than an average friend might for a non-LGBTQ person. When something bad happens, these would be the people you turn to first and the people who will come to your aide when needed. Chosen Families are borne out of necessity, not a choice. Most individuals would choose to have their own family fill these important roles rather than having to turn to others. However, when they do turn to others, it is a sign of the resiliency that exists among LGBTQ individuals that they are able to build such lasting and supportive bonds without the underpinnings of a biological connection.

One needs to look no further than the early years of the HIV/AIDS epidemic to see the role that chosen families played in the lives (and deaths) of LGBTQ individuals, particularly women and gay and bisexual men. Biological family members abandoned their sons when they found out they were HIV positive (which was often the same time that they found out that their sons were gay). Friends, lovers, ex-lovers, and even strangers from within the LGBTQ community stepped up to fill the roles that are traditionally filled by family members. They managed each other’s medical appointments, ensured that those in the hospital or hospice had visitors, that they had help getting their affairs in order, and ultimately, it was these chosen family members who planned and attended the funerals. Those who survived came out the other side of the epidemic having lost countless numbers of their ‘chosen family’ but also with an intense of the necessity of chosen family. Thus, today, we still see many groups of LGBTQ friends spending the holidays together. Even as families have become more accepting of their LGBTQ members, chosen families continue to hold a special place in the hearts of LGBTQ folk, and thus the #GaysGiving dinners continue.

One of the reasons that researchers have theorized that chosen families are so important for LGBTQ folk is because they provide a shared level of experience that often cannot be found in an LGBTQ individual’s family of origin. Unless you grew up with LGBTQ or other close family members, no matter how accepting your family is, they are still unlikely to truly be able to empathize and understand your experiences as an LGBTQ person in a world that remains heterosexist, and sometimes outright homophobic. This means that LGBTQ youth often lack a family member who can tell them what it is like to come out, or what it will be like to be bullied and harassed based on their sexual or . Thus, there’s a greater drive to fill that role and to find other LGBTQ companions who can serve as mentors or provide advice or comfort in the face of daily challenges.

Source: pexels.

Ironically, one of the barriers to cultivating a chosen family today is the growing acceptance of LGBTQ people in society. Friends and family are far less likely to outright reject LGBTQ people, making that overwhelming necessity of finding a chosen family much less salient. As a result, many may just go about their lives without developing close bonds with other LGBTQ individuals, at least not to the extent that has been seen in past generations. At the same time, many still see the benefits of a closely-knit group of LGBTQ-identified friends, so only time will tell whether #GaysGiving will remain a tradition in the LGBTQ community or whether it will fade into something the elder-queers remember fondly, but with that kind of nostalgia that appreciates the past while simultaneously celebrating the social advances that may one day render LGBTQ chosen families unnecessary.

====== 280 ========

TECHNOLOGICAL “ADVANCES” AND THE EROSION OF SOCIETY

Source: FunkyFocus / Pixabay

We tend to see novel technologies as true “advances.” This makes sense, as that’s sort of a defining feature of technology. The wheel allowed our ancestors to move large items across great distances. Controlled fire allowed our ancestors to prepare food that could be digested relatively quickly. And rocket technologies ultimately allowed us to put a man on the moon. Sure, in many ways, technology goes hand-in-hand with progress.

The evolutionary perspective on the human condition provides important perspective on the of technology. In short, the evolutionary perspective (see my brief textbook, Evolutionary Psychology 101) suggests that when thinking about any human problem, it’s useful to consider the fact that the human mind evolved not under modern conditions, but, rather, under ancestral conditions that characterized the lion’s share of human evolution.

An important facet of this thinking pertains to the fact that agriculture and “civilization” are relatively recent, having only been developed in the past 10,000 years. Prior to this point, all human beings lived in small nomadic bands. They only ate natural foods. They necessarily exercised a lot. And their lives were, of course, without iPhones and the internet. Our evolved psychology was shaped to match those pre-agrarian conditions.

As is true with any organism, when humans experience dramatic cases of “evolutionary mismatch” (see Giphart & Van Vugt, 2018), we often run into problems. For the same reason that a palm tree will not do well in my front yard in upstate New York, humans often don’t do well in modern conditions─the conditions don’t match the conditions that the organism evolved to experience. Palm trees evolved adaptations to match relatively warm climates. Humans evolved adaptations to match small-scale societies where nature, natural foods, and exercise were abundant parts of the day-to-day experience.

From the evolutionary perspective, then, any new technology should be considered in terms of this bigger-picture evolutionary context. It is highly plausible that some technology may only provide short-term benefits to individuals (because is makes us feel good) while, inadvertently, having long-term adverse consequences (such as leading to long-term social or physical problems). We need to be wary of this kind of situation, as businesses are in it for profit, and that goes along with creating products that have short-term gain.

Modern Technologies as Supernormal Stimuli

From an evolutionary perspective, a “supernormal stimulus” is an exaggerated version of some stimulus that an organism evolved to respond to because such a response had adaptive value during the evolutionary history of that organism. A famous example comes from renowned behavioral scientist, Niko Tinbergen (1953) who studied the tendency for male stickleback fish to show an aggressive response to the red coloration of other male stickleback fishes. Tinbergen created supernormal versions of the red stimulus, simply creating fake fish that had larger and more saturated red sections on their exterior. Tinbergen found essentially that the fish showed a “the more red the more behavior” effect. That is, the supernormal stimuli with the higher proportion of red led to more consistent and stronger aggressive responses.

The lesson is this: Evolved behavioral responses can be hijacked by technology. If the fish evolved to attack “red,” then anyone can make a “super-red” stimulus that leads to an even strong behavioral response.

It turns out that humans are, actually, very similar to male stickleback fish in this broader regard. Technologies that hijack our evolved tendencies are all around you right now. The food industry has figured out the flavors that our ancestors evolved to like and has exaggerated them in tasty treats. The computer gaming industry has figured out what kinds of experiences activate our ’s pleasure centers and has provided supernormal stimuli that represent extreme versions of these stimuli. These things feel good in the moment because that’s exactly how these technologies work: They exploit our evolved psychology─not for our own long-term benefit, but, rather, for corporate profit. McDonald’s really doesn’t care if their milkshakes are contributing significantly to the modern crisis in the United States. They care about their bottom line.

Below are five examples of modern technologies that might be thought of from this evolutionary perspective. Several of these technologies hijack our evolved psychology, for the benefit of corporate profit. Often to the detriment of our own long-term health.

Five Technological “Advances” that May Be Driving Us Down a Bad Path

1. Processed food

Recent research on the proportion of processed foods eaten by Americans has led to outrageous conclusions (see Guitar, 2017). More than 60% of the food that we eat is processed. This statistic is hugely out of whack with the fact that before the advent of agriculture, during the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, all food that was eaten was natural by definition. Under ancestral conditions in the African savanna, where we can all trace our ancestors, drought and famine were common. Under such conditions, preferences for foods that are high in fat and sugar were adaptive, so that ancestral humans could get some fat on their bones to try to survive through the next famine. Today, those same food preferences, which have not had time to evolve out of us, often prove fatal, leading to such adverse health outcomes as Type-II diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

2.

As is true with any sexually reproducing species, humans evolved a variety of mating-relevant adaptations including various preferences in mates (see Geher & Kaufman, 2013). Pornography provides a clear example of supernormal stimuli. Men evolved to be attracted to certain qualities in the female body because such led to increases in sexual that ultimately facilitated reproductive success. The porn industry takes these stimuli and ramps them up a notch. Or 100.

While the topic of whether pornography is truly harmful for people or for society is in the midst of hot academic debate, several published studies have found that is a real in terms of our brain’s physiology (see Banca et al., 2016). Further, pornography use seems to be associated with adverse relationship outcomes such as (with those showing higher porn use being more likely to have relationships that end in divorce; Perry & Davis, 2017). From a supernormal stimulus perspective, these outcomes are not surprising.

3. Video Games

Video games represent supernormal stimuli sine qua non. Everything about them takes some facet of our evolved psychology and gives us an overdose of it. We evolved to be task-oriented, because people who were task-oriented got stuff done and were relatively likely to survive and ultimately reproduce as a result. If you were around in the 1980s like I was, you know that Pac Man and Asteroids were all about completing the task. One more game! One more level! I know I can get to the next level, I just know it!

Modern video games such as Fortnite, are, of course, amped up compared to old Pac Man. They often include a social component. They include high risk. They include human coalitions. They sometimes have sexy characters. They have elements that focus on social status. And so forth. Why are our kids so darned addicted to these stupid video games? Because these videogames are hijacking their evolved psychological adaptations.

4. iPhones

Consider yourself lucky if you are truly not addicted to your smartphone. In a recent CNN poll of teens in the US, more than 50% admitted to being addicted to their phones. And we all well know that the other 50% were ! I have to say that I am checking my phone way more than I wish I were these days. These things are so addictive! And tells us why.

As is the case with video games, smartphones have so many things that we evolved to focus on right at our fingertips. 24/7. ? Relationships? Your social status? Your family? Things that make you happy? Things that make you excited? Things that make you surprised? Risky behaviors? We have special evolved psychology regarding all these things. And with smartphones, exaggerated information on all of these is now more accessible than.

5. Your couch

How many hours a week do you think an average American spends sitting on the couch? Many of us have more than one couch in the house. Hey, we try to make our houses comfortable. The word “home,” in fact, is all about the comfort that we experience in our houses. I love my house, so I’m not one to judge. But, under ancestral conditions, before the advent of agriculture and “civilization,” people were not sitting around on their couches. Not by any means!

For the lion’s share of human evolutionary history, exercise was not a choice. Sitting around on the couch all day watching an Impractical Jokers marathon, drinking Pepsie and Sam Adams, and eating chips was not a possibility. Estimates of ancestral exercise patterns, in fact, suggest that traveling more than 20 miles in a day was a regular occurrence (see Platek et al., 2011). Further, as is true with all animals, we evolved to take advantage of opportunities to not expend energy. Under ancestral conditions, chilling out whenever possible and saving up energy for future physical activity was a good idea. In today’s world, where we can easily go a full day that includes walking less than two miles and sitting on comfortable chairs and couches for 10 or so hours, this tendency to rest up whenever the opportunity presents itself is incredibly unhealthy. We’ve made our environments too comfortable! And all the technologies that we have to increase our comfort, including electronic garage doors so that we don’t have to get of our cars, dog doors so that we don’t have to get up to walk the dog, reclining chairs, Netflix, couches that cost thousands of dollars, etc., work against that fact that our bodies evolved to move a lot every single day.

Bottom Line

Beware of technology. Technological “advances” often present some short-term benefit with an unspecified (and often invisible) long-term cost. Companies that make technology are motivated to get people to buy their stuff. They are not too motivated to worry much about potential long-term adverse consequences associated with their products.

The evolutionary framework changes the playing field when it comes to thinking about technology. We need to think about the long-term human consequences of technology. And we also need to ask the question of what evolved psychological adaptation the technology is tapping into. Further, we need to ask whether the technology is somehow exploiting our evolved psychology for corporate gain. There’s something to think about when you go out holiday shopping.

====== 281 ========

FORGET CO-PARENTING WITH A NARCISSIST, ROUND 3

Source: Caroline Hernandez/unsplash

As the writer of Forget Co-Parenting With a Narcissist: Do This Instead, and its Round 2 counterpart, I spend a good amount of time helping weary co-parents navigate high-conflict and contentious plans. As awful as it is to deal with the toxic atmosphere of family court, it is possible to implement emotionally stable habits so you can distance yourself from the drama.

Here are 10 ways to do just that.

1. Emotionally stable co-parents accept that their ex is not going to change and they stop wishing that this person one day wakes up and sees the impact of their frivolous, mean-spirited and sociopathic behaviors. Instead, emotionally stable co-parents recognize they chose a partner who may fit the diagnostic criteria for , borderline disorder or . They educate themselves on these mental conditions to better understand the characterological manifestations.

2. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t complain about their ex. This is not to say they don’t have reason to feel outrage or experience random thoughts of skipping town with the kids, but they accept the game for what it is. They recognize that as adults, we are willing participants in . When we complain, other people may be wondering, ‘Hmmm…didn’t you see the signs when you where ?’ As a psychotherapist, I assure you, there are always signs. I can also confirm, no kid on the couch ever says, “Thank goodness for all the badmouthing my parents did in front of me—that really helped me move forward and learn the basics of healthy relationships.”

3. Emotionally stable co-parents use wisely. They recognize they need to heal first in order to help their kids recover. They grow in their ability to guide their children once they’ve processed why they chose their co-parent in the first place. As my clinical supervisor used to say, “All issues with children are issues in the parent. The connection is not always linear.”

4. Emotionally stable co-parents do not waste time on co-parenting forums because most are not helpful, and more often, used as a platform for emotional vomiting and out-catastrophizing other people’s experiences. Rather, they spend their time and energy on hiring professionals. Emotionally stable co-parents do not write dramatic, autobiographical email or post like-minded commentary, nor do they leave lengthy phone messages expecting free advice. They respect the ethical and legal restrictions of mental health and legal professionals for responding to non-clients.

5. Emotionally stable co-parents recognize that the job of a single parent is a lot easier when kids are held accountable for their behaviors. All children need discipline and guidance. Some may argue that children of divorce need more stability, consistency and accountability due to the erratic and conflicting practices from the other side.

6. Emotionally stable co-parents speak to their kids about divorce in an honest and age-appropriate manner. They recognize that while they may not have the answer to “Why does daddy’s new friend over his house?,” they refrain from angry knee-jerk reactions. When stumped, they reach for books such as Growing Up With Divorce by Neil Kalter, or Divorce Poison by Richard Warshak.

7. Emotionally stable parents accept the tall order known as “bad parenting.” This may look like feeding him donuts and chocolate milk for breakfast, to off all her hair one weekend just because, or criticizing you for grounding him when he told the football coach to "Go to hell." Because what’s the alternative? Spend $300 in attorney fees to hear that your issue isn’t ‘bad enough’ to file a motion in court?

8. Emotionally stable co-parents don’t blame judges, attorneys, mediators, and therapists for their situation. This is not to say the family court system isn’t largely broken, and in need of reform. But it is what it is, and none of its players are directly at fault when your ex doesn’t comply with the court order. Mentally stable co-parents view court as a place to be avoided for all non-emergency matters.

9. Emotionally stable co-parents teach their kids to be independent thinkers by inspiring them to question events that don’t make sense and to listen to their gut. If their co-parent tells them not to trust someone, they are encouraged to look for an alternative explanation.

10. Emotionally stable co-parents rise above the chaos and focus on nurturing their child’s mental and emotional well-being. They go to therapy, work their calm plan, relaxation routine and mindfulness practices daily so they can parent with love, warmth, safety and presence.

Even when the other parent does the opposite.

To learn more about co-parenting strategies, click here for information about my online course, Co-Parenting Without Chaos.

Copyright 2018 Linda Esposito, LCSW. All Rights Reserved. No part of this article may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the author.

====== 282 ========

IT'S HOW YOU DO IT THAT MATTERS FOR RELATIONAL SATISFACTION

Nearly everyone understands the importance of being grateful. And during this time of year there tends to be a marked emphasis on the positive impact that has on our lives. This focus is especially powerful since being grateful for our blessings – like our , family, and significant other or spouse – is associated with greater individual well-being.

And gratitude may be one of the most important positive emotions to cultivate for thriving as well, according to research.

However, feeling grateful alone is not enough for relational satisfaction. It’s acting upon these feelings that matter. We need to express our gratitude to our partner. After all, our partner is not a mind reader. We need to tell them how we feel about them.

Sadly, many people do not feel that their partners appreciate them. Many relationships fall apart not due to one big problem but rather a lot of little things that add up over time. Perhaps repeatedly feeling overlooked, unacknowledged, or taken advantage of, for example.

We need to make it a habit to express our appreciation to our partner.

In our book, Happy Together: Using the Science of to Build Love That Lasts, we recount the story of “Tonya”and “Marco,” whose collapsed after twenty-plus years of marriage. As we mentioned in a previous post, Tonya did not feel appreciated by Marco. She could only recall two times in their entire marriage where Marco expressed his appreciation for her. She said he rarely expressed his gratitude to her which caused her to wither over the years. Eventually, she left, to the utter surprise of Marco who didn’t understand what he did. It’s actually what he didn’t do that she felt caused their relationship to unravel.

We can’t overemphasize the importance of expressing gratitude to our loved ones for relational satisfaction and longevity. In fact, expressing gratitude has been found to be important for both partners, the giver and the receiver. In one study, couples who expressed gratitude well to one another were as half as likely to break up six months later. Gratitude was found to serve as an emotional glue in that it makes a partner feel “cared for, understood, and validated.”

Source: Pexels

However, for optimal relationship satisfaction, it’s not just if you do it, but how you do it that matters, according to research.

Gratitude can serve as a relational booster shot if the gratitude is expressed well, in that it is “other” focused, rather than “self” focused. In other words, focusing on praising your partner and his or her qualities and actions rather than the benefit to yourself.

For example, if your partner has been especially helpful around the house lately or roasted and carved the holiday turkey, you might automatically react by saying, “Thank you. You really helped me out.” Or “Yummy! You know how much I love turkey.”

While these remarks aren’t bad, of course – after all, you are acknowledging your partner and could be worse off by not saying anything at all – you could do much better by shifting the focus from yourself to your partner. Instead, try responding with something like:

"Thank you. I really appreciate your thoughtfulness in tidying up our home. It’s this thoughtfulness that I see in you time and time again that makes you such a special person.”

“I really appreciate your to detail and the care you took in making the turkey. Your patience is remarkable! Whether working with your students or interacting with our son, these qualities are such a beautiful part of who you are.”

So think of a recent time you thanked a loved one. Reflect for a moment on your expression of gratitude. Next, ask yourself these two questions:

Did you focus on the other person, or the self?

If you focused on the self, how could you reframe that?

Giving good gratitude is a skill that can be learned. Expressing it well and practicing it regularly will help boost your individual and relational .

====== 283 ========

SUZIE PILEGGI PAWELSKI, MAPP AND JAMES PAWELSKI, PH.D.

Suzann (“Suzie”) Pileggi Pawelski, MAPP, is a freelance writer and well-being consultant specializing in the science of happiness and its effects on relationships and health. Her 2010 Scientific American Mind cover story, “The Happy Couple” was the catalyst for the book Happy Together: Using the Science of Positive Psychology to Build Love that Lasts that she co-wrote with her husband, James. Together, they give Romance and Research (TM) workshops around the world. She is a contributing editor for Live Happy and writes the “Science of Well-being” column for the national magazine. As a columnist for the Newsletter of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), she profiled many of the field’s leading scientists and featured their groundbreaking research in the publication. Previously, she directed award-winning media relations campaigns in New York City for Fortune 500 clients. Earlier in her career, she worked in publicity at Radio City Music Hall and as an associate producer for The Joan Rivers Show, where she featured leading health and medical authors on the Emmy Award-winning program. She has a Master of Applied Positive Psychology degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

James Pawelski, Ph.D., is the Director of Education and a Senior Scholar in the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, where he co-founded the Master of Applied Positive Psychology Program with Martin Seligman. He is a recipient of Penn’s Liberal and Professional Studies Award for Distinguished Teaching in Professional Graduate Programs. The Founding Executive Director of the International Positive Psychology Association (IPPA), and a member of the Advisory Board of the International Positive Education Network (IPEN), he is currently leading a three-year, multi-million-dollar grant investigating connections between the science of well-being and the arts and humanities. Having earned a Ph.D. in philosophy, he is the author of The Dynamic Individualism of William James, and co-editor of The Eudaimonic Turn: Well-Being in Literary Studies and On Human Flourishing: A Poetry Anthology. An international keynote speaker, he has presented in more than 20 countries on six continents, including Romance and Research (TM) workshops with his wife, Suzie. He is a recipient of the Practice Excellence Award from the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the Humanitarian Innovation Award for the Humanities, Arts, and Culture from the Humanities Innovation Forum at the United Nations. He is frequently featured in the media, including the New York Times, U.S. News and World Report, Philadelphia Inquirer, and The Today Show.

====== 284 ========

HOW MUCH SLEEP DO SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN NEED?

Source: Pixabay Free Images

The question of how much children need is one that is not easy to answer. Professional organizations have recommended guidelines which include ranges for different age groups. For example, the National Sleep Foundation suggests that school-age children 6-to-13 years old should get 9-to-11 hours of sleep each night. But the basis for establishing those guidelines is unclear. It is a more difficult question to answer than one might expect, and it is similar to asking how much exercise children need or what nutritional needs they have. Complicating the question is that individual differences exist for children at any one age.

Children of all ages, but especially adolescents, seem to be getting less sleep than they need. The movement to have middle and high school start times later is based on the assumption that doing so will afford adolescents the opportunity to get more morning sleep, and also that they will actually get more sleep by not staying up even later at night.

Most school districts where later start times for teens have been considered or implemented, have set earlier start times for elementary school children, with the assumption that their sleep needs will not be compromised. With only a few exceptions, that assumption has received very little study.

One method for estimating how much sleep a child needs is to observe how much they sleep when there are no or few constraints on when they go to bed and wake up. Since the school week schedule dictates that wake times are around the same time each day, are responsible for making sure their children go to bed early enough to get sufficient sleep. But during school breaks, especially during summer months when most schools are not in session, bedtimes and wake times can be more flexible. These breaks create opportunities to determine how much sleep children might need.

A paper just published in the journal Sleep by a of researchers at the University of South Carolina reports a study that includes measurements of sleep during two school breaks – one of a week duration, and one of three weeks duration which were then compared to how much they slept when school was in session. Children (N=154) were between 5 and 9 years old (mean = 7). Sleep was measured objectively using Fitbits.

For both the one- and three-week breaks, children showed increased sleep time and later wake times. On a one-week break they slept 38 minutes more and woke up 35 minutes later than when school was in session. During the three-week break they slept 25 minutes more and woke up 46 minutes later. When school was in session, their sleep far less than even the lower end of the recommended range (7 hours, 18 minutes vs. 9 hours). They were getting more sleep during the one week break (8 hours, 12 minutes) and the three week break (7 hours, 48 minutes), but those durations were still short of 9 hours. Longer sleep times during breaks is a good estimate of how much sleep children of this age need. "Natural" wake times of 35-46 minutes later than when school is in session suggests that starting school an hour later — no earlier than 8:30 as is being recommended by professional organizations — is probably a good idea for all children, not just adolescents.

====== 285 ========

TWO LEADER BEHAVIORS THAT REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE

One of the most consistent research findings of the past century suggests that there are two types of leader behaviors that are associated with effective : Task-focused and relationship-focused behaviors.

Just after World War II leadership researchers from Ohio State University and the University of Michigan discovered two types of leader behaviors that were consistently related to effective leadership.

The first were task-focused behaviors. These are behaviors that put structure into the work setting – creating operating procedures, focusing on measuring outcomes, making important decisions, and the like.

The second category of effective leader behaviors focuses on the followers and the relationship between leaders and followers. These include showing concern for followers’ feelings and needs, showing appreciation, giving them a voice in , and bolstering their .

Research over the next 70 years has consistently shown that these two broad categories of leader behaviors are important. So, what is the implication for leaders and their effectiveness?

Leaders should do a self-assessment and note how often their behaviors focus primarily on the task and the incidence of their relationship-oriented behaviors. Research by Fred Fiedler and others suggests that leaders may prefer one over the other – becoming almost preoccupied with getting the task done, or alternatively, with building the leader-follower relationship. For example, if a leader’s self-assessment suggests that he or she is over-emphasizing task-oriented behaviors, then balance may be needed by making sure to also focus on the with members. Over-focusing on relationships can lead to a lack of structure with can reduce the team’s efficiency and output.

Sometimes, simple research results (and those that seem to be almost common-sense) are important because they give us insight into our patterns of behavior in the . The best leaders realize that they can always improve. They reflect on what they are doing well, and on their shortcomings and they strive to constantly get better.

Follow me at twitter.com/#!/ronriggio

====== 286 ========

SEX HELPS INITIATE RELATIONSHIPS WITH POTENTIAL PARTNERS

Sexual desire evolved to serve as a powerful motivational force that brings potential romantic partners together initially and thereby helps to facilitate sexual intercourse and . As such, sexual acts may be devoid of affectional bonding, as in the case of one-night stands. And yet, sexual desire may play a major role not only in attracting potential partners to each other but also in encouraging the formation of an between them.

Nevertheless, thus far it has been unclear whether desire motivates merely reproductive acts, with attachment between partners developing independently, or whether desire directly contributes to the building of an emotional bond between newly acquainted partners. Indeed, although sexual urges and emotional attachments are not necessarily connected with each other, evolutionary and social processes may have rendered humans particularly likely to become romantically attached to partners to whom they are sexually attracted1.

Source: Hugh Douglas Hamilton/Wikimedia Commons

Research published recently in the Journal of Social and Personal 2 has provided support for the latter option. In four studies, my colleagues and I demonstrate that sexual desire elicits behaviors that can facilitate emotional bonding during face-to-face encounters with a new opposite- acquaintance.

In Study 1, we examined whether desire for a new acquaintance would be associated with enactment of non-verbal immediacy behaviors that indicate contact readiness (e.g., synchronization, close physical proximity, frequent eye contact). To do so, participants took part in a lip-sync performance in which they and an attractive opposite-sex confederate mimed together to pre-recorded music (without actually singing) while being videotaped. Participants then rated their desire for the confederate. Judges rated the extent to which participants enacted immediacy behaviors toward the confederates and were behaviorally synchronized with them. We found that participant's desire for the confederate was associated with coded immediacy behaviors toward the confederate as well as with synchronization as perceived by participants, confederates, and raters.

In Study 2, we sought to replicate the findings of Study 1 with a different methodology that requires more intimate coordination (slow-dance rather than lip-sync performance) and is thus more relevant to romantic contexts. We also wished to extend Study 1 by adding a measure of interest in future interactions with potential partners. For this purpose, participants slow-danced with an opposite-sex confederate and then rated their sexual desire for the confederate, the extent to which they were synchronized with each other, and their interest in seeing the confederate again. The results showed that participant's desire for the confederates was associated with being synchronized with them, which in turn, predicted greater interest in them.

Studies 3 and 4 were designed to establish a causal connection between activation of the sexual system and non-sexual behaviors (provision of responsiveness and help, respectively) that are not only strategically employed to initiate relationships with potential partners but also play a key role in supporting long-term bonding3.

In Study 3, participants were subliminally exposed to sexual stimuli (versus neutral stimuli). Specifically, participants were asked to indicate their food, clothing, and location preferences for a date by choosing one of two options from each of seven categories (e.g., color of clothes: black or blue; location: bar or restaurant). Before each pair of options, participants were exposed to either a sexual (an attractive naked, reclining man shown from the groin up for female participants; an attractive, naked, kneeling woman photographed from behind for male participants) or a neutral prime, which was presented subliminally.

Then, participants discussed several interpersonal dilemmas (e.g., “Are you for or against playing ‘hard to get’ at the start of a relationship?”) with an opposite-sex participant whom they did not know while being videotaped. Judges rated the extent to which participants engaged in behaviors that conveyed responsiveness and caring to the confederate during the interactions. The findings revealed that participants were more responsive to the other participant in the sexual condition than in the control condition.

In Study 4, we sought to activate the sexual system in a more ecologically valid manner, investigating how sexual stimuli in real-life settings (watching videos) affect engagement in other approach behavior (i.e., helping behaviors) that may facilitate relationship initiation more actively than the provision of responsiveness. In particular, participants watched either an erotic (but not pornographic) video or a neutral video. After watching the video, participants were led to believe that in the next 5 minutes they and another participant would complete a questionnaire assessing their verbal reasoning. The experimenter then introduced an attractive opposite-sex confederate to the participants, seated them next to each other, told both that they were allowed to speak with each other while completing the questionnaire, and left the room.

When the confederate ostensibly got to the third question, he or she turned to the participants and asked their help in solving that question, uttering, "I'm stuck with this question. Could you please help me in solving it?" Participants' helping behaviors toward the confederate were recorded, using the following measures: (a) the time elapsed until participants started providing help to the confederate; (b) the actual time spent helping to solve the needed question; both were measured using a stopwatch hidden in the confederates' pocket; and (c) the quality of the given help, as assessed by the confederate following this session. The findings indicated that participants were quicker to help as well as invested more time and effort in providing help to the confederate in the sexual priming condition than in the control condition.

Overall, our research demonstrates that even a nonconscious sexual stimulus can elicit verbal and non-verbal behaviors that not only convey contact readiness but also express caring about a partner's well-being. By doing so, our research suggests that when two strangers meet, sexual desire experienced by one or both of them may initiate a cascade of behaviors that signal their interest in further interaction as well as their willingness to invest in a potential relationship. Such behaviors help set the stage for deepening the emotional connection between them. To be sure, whereas intense desire may attract new partners to each other, the behaviors it engenders are those that support long-term bonding.

This post also appeared here.

====== 287 ========

7 SIGNS OF A PASSIVE-AGGRESSIVE NARCISSIST

Source: Edw/Shutterstock

“Whenever my husband feels he isn’t being catered to, he would make everything difficult, while saying there’s nothing’s wrong.” ―Anonymous

“My colleague’s favorite tactic when she doesn’t get her way is to take twice as long to get anything done.” ―Anonymous

“My partner deals with our relationship issues through avoidance, neglect, and blame.”―Anonymous

The Mayo Clinic research group defines as “a mental disorder in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance and a deep need for admiration. Those with narcissistic disorder believe that they're superior to others and have little regard for other people's feelings. But behind this mask of ultra- lies a fragile , vulnerable to the slightest criticism.”

can be defined as , hostility, and/or learned helplessness in disguise, expressed in covert ways to "even the score" and gain an underhanded advantage.

While many narcissists come across as openly grandiose and outwardly intrusive, some narcissists utilize passive-aggressive tactics as a primary way of fulfilling their selfish needs, or to exact “ ” onto those who fail to cater to their whims.

It’s important to note that not all passive-aggressive individuals are narcissistic. What characterizes the passive-aggressive narcissist is their barely disguised sense of superiority, conceit, and entitlement. They are inclined to become covertly hostile when they don’t get their way, no matter how unreasonable. If the world doesn’t revolve around them (like they think they deserve), they will devise many subversive schemes to make the lives of those around them miserable.

How do you know when you might be dealing with a passive-aggressive narcissist? Below are seven telltale signs, with references from my books, How to Successfully Handle Narcissists and How to Successfully Handle Passive-Aggressive People. When a passive-aggressive narcissist doesn’t get his or her way, he is likely to instigate one or more of the following offenses, while remaining unaware of (or unconcerned with) how their behavior impacts others.

1. Disguised Verbal Hostility

Examples: Negative . Negative orientation. Habitual criticism of ideas, conditions, and expectations. Addressing an adult like a child. Invalidation of others’ experiences and feelings.

Possible Intention(s): Putting others down to feel dominant and superior. Causing others to feel inadequate and insecure to relieve one’s own sense of deficiency. Seeking a false sense of importance by being persistently critical. Consciously or unconsciously spreading one’s own unhappiness (misery loves company). Competing for power and control in a relationship.

2. Disguised Hostile

Examples: Sarcasm. Veiled hostile joking — often followed by "just kidding." Repetitive teasing. Subtle “digs” at one’s appearance, , socio-cultural background, credentials, behavior, decisions, social relations, etc.

Possible Intention(s): Express hidden anger, disapproval, or rejection towards an individual. Disdain towards an individual for what she or he represents. Using humor as a weapon in an attempt to marginalize another's humanity, dignity, and credibility.

3. Disguised Relational Hostility

Examples: The silent treatment. The invisible treatment. Social exclusion. Neglect. Sullen resentment. Indirectly hurting something or someone of importance to the targeted person.

Possible Intention(s): Express anger or resentment. Covert Punishment. Purposely creating a negative and disconcerting . Putting the targeted recipient off balance. Attempting to create insecurity.

4. Blaming

“It’s your fault that I forgot because you didn’t remind me.” ―Anonymous

Examples: Blaming others for one’s own irresponsibility, negligence, or failures. Blaming others for one’s own unwillingness to follow reasonable rules, social norms, or professional conduct.

Possible Intention(s): Distortion and of the truth. Avoidance of responsibility. Manipulate facts of the issue. Distort perception for easier and control. -baiting. . Misdirection to take focus off of the real issue.

5. Stalling

Examples: . Forgetting. Stonewalling. Withholding resources or information. Unnecessary bureaucracy and red tape. Excuse making. Broken agreements. Lack of follow through.

Possible Intention(s): Avoiding responsibility, duty, and obligations. Maintaining power and control by imposing many hoops to jump through. Passive competitiveness making life more difficult for others. Purposely blocking others’ success. of others’ success.

6. Covert Resistance

Examples: Stubbornness. Rigidity. Inefficiency, complication, incompletion, or ruination of task.

Possible Intentions(s): Power struggle. Passive combativeness. “Victory” is gained from the frustrated efforts and negative emotions of the recipient.

7. Underhanded Sabotage

Examples: Purposely undermine tasks, projects, activities, deadlines or agreements. Causing harm or loss materially. Overspending. Wrecking positive chemistry interpersonally, socially or professionally. Deliberate disclosure of harmful information. Deliberate obstruction of communication and endeavors.

Possible Intention(s): Covertly express anger, hostility, and resentment towards an individual, group, or organization. Channeling unspoken gripe or unresolved past issues. Personal, social, or professional jealousy. Subtly administering punishment or revenge.

Can a passive-aggressive narcissist change for the better? Perhaps. But only if he or she is highly aware, and willing to go through the courageous process of self-discovery. For passive-aggressive narcissists no longer willing to play the charade at the cost of genuine and credibility, there are ways to liberate from falsehood, and progressively move toward one’s Higher Self. For those who live or work with passive-aggressive narcissists, perceptive awareness and communication are musts to establishing healthy and mutually-respectful relationships. See references below.

© 2018 by Preston C. Ni. All rights reserved worldwide. Copyright violation may subject the violator to legal prosecution.

====== 288 ========

6 SIGNS HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU

"He's just not that into you."

I know you hate this phrase. I hate it more. Mostly, because it's true-- even when we are living in complete denial about it. Sorry, but if he's not calling you, it's not because all of his fingers were chopped off in a freak text messaging accident or he's in a coma somewhere. It's because he doesn't like you or doesn't like you enough to call you.

You have to be aware that even though you may be enjoying an LSD-like love high, your new significant other may be feeling something entirely different.

Oftentimes, I get asked about red flags in and . From personal experience and those of so many ladies I know, I have compiled a few warning signals to watch out for and how to deal with them. As always, there are exceptions but I am never the exception, and probably, neither are you.

1. He talks about his ex frequently. It's fine to bring up the ex once in a while under very neutral contexts, e.g., "My ex has the kids this week." But talking incessantly about prior relationships is tacky and might also imply that there are still some unresolved issues lingering in his head, whether it's , resentment or doubt. This rule applies to you too. Do not mention your previous love life and its contents, including: pet names, restraining orders or penis size.

Relationship therapist Dr. Turndorf suggests, if he mentions the ex and it bothers you, speak up and say something: "The effective way of handling this is to ask him if he knows how he feels when he brings up the subject of his ex? Does he feel hurt? Does he feel angry?" If his problems persist, keep in mind that you don't have to.

In the beginning of a relationship, each party should ideally have a clean slate and be on their best behavior, instead of showcasing their baggage like a badge of honor.

2. He tells you he's not ready for a relationship. I can't believe how many times I've heard women dismiss this statement and continue pursuing unavailable men. These guys will flat out tell you that they don't want to commit to you, but here you are, baking them cookies, enjoying naked sleepovers and gushing to all your girlfriends about what a catch he is. Because, "once he sees how great you are,

he will surely commit.

If this is you, please find someone to slap you back into reality. The truth is-- he doesn't want a relationship (it's the same as not being ready for one), even with someone as delightful and wonderful as you. And you shouldn't waste your time trying to convince him otherwise, because his mind is already set. Bake cookies for someone who cares about you--like that friend who slaps you into back into reality (and not the one who tells you that he'll come around, eventually.)

I've been in this situation before, waiting it out like an idiot. Needless to say, I have yet to see a ring on it.

3. He wants to get into a relationship immediately. Refusing to commit to you is not a good thing, but neither is moving into a relationship at lightning speed. Relax, you aren't Benjamin Button-- you don't have five minutes to fall in love and have babies. If your man tells you he loves you or wants to commit to you during or shortly after the first date, something is up. (Unless of course, you do too, and it's love at first sight for both of you.)

I actually know a guy who asked a girl to be his girlfriend during the first date, then broke up with her two weeks later, because he realized that she was "boring." Well, duh. I'm surprised he even knew anything beyond her first name at that point. Relationships can only succeed when there is a foundation to base it upon, such as common interests and experiences. Just because you both order the Caesar salad, doesn't make you compatible.

Similarly, relationship expert and author Lynn Harris advises against premature "I love yous": "The first time you feel like saying it, count to ten, go home and say it to your cat." You don't want to mistake love for a really romantic evening or a great night in bed.

4. He still hasn't asked you out. This should be a given, but I can't tell you how many times I've heard people texting or g-chatting for months and months before any attempt at physical contact is made. If you're seeking mild or a virtual relationship, texting is fine-but if you want something more, then he needs to make a move in real life. If you're at a point where you don't want to wait anymore, stop waiting. You shouldn't have to force someone to ask you out.

5. He doesn't let you go near his phone. This is also a given, in my opinion. But I have firsthand witnessed relationships in which phones are private property, locked and guarded with military-like defense systems. If your partner has issues about letting you see his phone, then chances are, he's hiding something sketchy. The mere fact that he turns all Charlie Sheen on you the moment you go near it should be a big clue. I'm not saying that couples need to share passwords or answer each other's phones, but you shouldn't ever feel like he's keeping something important from you either. If you feel weird about something, tell him. Maybe he's got a great excuse, like he's in the CIA or running from the mob. It's way better than finding those naked pictures of his ex later on.

6. He doesn't give you butterflies. He may have a great , a nice apartment with hardwood floors, a humanitarian heart and killer abs, but if he doesn't make your heart all warm and fuzzy, he's not it.

Chemistry isn't instant-- sometimes, it can be discovered gradually, like in these situations. But, after a certain point, you will know if that spark is missing. And if that's the case, be gentle and kind. After all, wouldn't you want to be let down just as easy if someone just wasn't that into you?

Follow me on : ThisJenKim

Want to know when I write a new post? Sign up here.

====== 289 ========

SCHIZOPHRENIA AND HALLUCINATIONS

Source: Pixabay

I was sitting on a park bench on my former university campus on January 28, 2006 when my hallucinations began. I began to hear a chorus of children’s voices very far away. They told me I was a “homeless hoodlum” a hundred times, perhaps a thousand times, again and again in my mind. It was like a painful stimulus.

Then the voices changed, and complimented me on achieving a perfect score on my SAT college entrance exam. It is true that during high school I had scored high marks, but in reality, I had fallen short of perfect. They told me that I was fluent in Chinese, but in reality, I had only an elementary proficiency.

Then the voices began to confirm my delusions. They spoke about my future husband who they said was handsome, wealthy, powerful, and eagerly waiting to meet me. They said I would meet him after my required period of homelessness had miraculously ended, which they affirmed it would.

I expected that one night an airplane might land near the churchyard where I was every night, pick me up, and take me to another city or perhaps another country. I would begin a new life as the next Mother Teresa, and the wife of the man of my .

In my mind, the voices of a little boy and a little girl who were part of the choir I was hearing became more distinct. Months later, I would begin to hear the voice of my future husband, assuring me that he was coming soon.

In late January 2006 after the voices initially began I was taking a shower at a friend’s house. Suddenly I heard three men making rude and insulting comments. I knew they could see me because of their specific remarks. I stepped out of the shower to see the three men through the bathroom window and realized there was no window. I looked for a sunroof, but there was none. After a few minutes I realized no one could see me and there were no men.

I lived in a world of delusions and hallucinations which became more severe in the following weeks and months. One day, I saw the name of the college library where I spent much of my time had been changed by one letter. Weeks later, I looked into a mirror and saw an alarming version of my face morphed together with the cartoon character Lisa Simpson.

When I tried to read books, I noticed that words were underlined once, twice or three times. I found this incredibly distracting. I remember picking up other books only to find the same bizarre and unpredictable patterns of underlining. In about two months’ time I no longer knew what day it was. I could no longer check the date on a newspaper without hallucinating.

On a Wednesday night in 2006 I believed it was one week before Thanksgiving. However, during a conversation I discovered that the holiday would be the next day. I had become disoriented and detached from reality.

Through all of this, I strongly resolved to never mention the voices and the imaginary images I saw with any other person. I told myself that everyone else refrained from speaking about the things they saw and heard so I would too. I convinced myself that hallucinations were normal and common.

Eventually I was picked up by police for screaming back at the voices and transported to a ward, but I firmly believed I was not mentally ill. My strong resolve to keep my experiences a secret remained unchanged. Even though I clung to my belief that I was not hearing voices, I was diagnosed as totally and permanently disabled due to schizophrenia. That was it. It seemed my life was done.

Fortunately, today, there is even hope for people with the most severe and treatment resistant forms of schizophrenia. Initially, during my recovery experience, I endured twelve months of uncomfortable side effects trying many medications which offered me little relief from my symptoms. It can be challenging to find just the right to effectively address the specific needs of each individual, but it is crucial to not give up trying.

After twelve months, my new doctor prescribed an underutilized medication. Over time, my hallucinations disappeared, and I regained a quiet mind. As my recovery progressed I was able to return to college. Two years later I earned my degree in molecular biology and graduated with honors.

I would encourage my readers to never give up on any person, even if they have an experience like mine, resulting from a severe form of mental illness. Today, there is more hope than ever before thanks to newer treatments and medications.

In 2018, I am celebrating ten years in full recovery from severe schizophrenia.

====== 290 ========

WILDFIRES, HURRICANES, FLOODS, MUDSLIDES... TESTS OF FAITH?

“When you are dealing with questions too large for you [and] which, nevertheless, will not leave you alone, you are obliged to house them somewhere – and an old wall helps.”

-- from Archibald MacLeish, Pulitzer Prize winning poet, in the Foreword to the published version of his verse play J.B.

To grapple with those large questions that would not leave him alone, that haunted him, MacLeish chose an “ancient structure” – the Book of Job.

The story of Job can be found memorialized in an ancient fable (folk tale), ancient verse, and, of course, in the Hebrew Bible and in Scripture. It was reimagined, reconstructed, in MacLeish’s J.B., which is a play within a play, framed by a duel of egos; and inhabited by two sufferers and three comforters.

Given all the devastation experienced by thousands as a result of natural (and, perhaps, unnatural?) disasters, in 2018 alone, and given all the losses of life and property that have had to be absorbed, a sufferer might wonder, “Why me and mine?” Those spared might thankfully wonder, “Why not me and mine?”

Why does extreme loss and suffering come to some, and not others?

How much could we endure, how might we be? How much faith in the “rightness” of the world might we hold on to?

The playwright explained his play

MacLeish’s Foreword helped me grasp the dueling personalities that confounded my initial reading of his play, and my second reading. The Foreword (written as “a Trespass on a Monument”) explains that J.B. is “put in motion by two broken-down actors” who believe that they are to enact the Book of Job.

From a variety of reviews and commentaries, I finally surmised that, presumably to make a living, the broken-down actors have taken jobs with a traveling circus. One, a balloon-hawker imagines that he is to play the role of God, and assumes that role by putting on a God-mask. The other, a popcorn-vendor, reluctantly agrees to play the role of the devil, and does so whenever he puts on the leering red mask of Satan. When masked, these two actors challenge each other in a battle of egos, for the purpose of challenging Job’s steadfastness – his faith that God rewards good and only punishes when there is wrongdoing.

MacLeish provided this guidance: “Job’s search, like ours, was for the meaning of his afflictions – the loss of his children, the loss of everything he possessed, the loss of his wife’s kindness, who turned upon him in his agony with those ineradicable words, surely the most dreadful ever spoken by wife to husband: ‘Curse God and die!….'

“Job was, by witness of God himself, and twice repeated, ‘a perfect and upright man’ [who feared God and eschewed evil] and his destruction was, by the same unquestionable authority, ‘without cause….'

“My hero, called J.B. after the current fashion in business address, bears little relation to that ancient owner of camels, oxen, and sheep. He is not a particularly devout man. But he is, at the beginning of the play, prosperous, powerful, possessed of a lovely wife, fine children – everything the heart of a man can desire.”

MacLeish tells us that J.B. is aware – “as he could hardly help being” – that God has favored him. Like Job of the Bible, J.B. is not prepared for the “sudden and inexplicable loss of everything.” He is desperate to know the reason for his losses and his wretchedness.

Giving voice to God and the devil via “a stunning device”

In his December 30, 1958 New York Herald Tribune review, Walter Kerr advised his readers that “J.B. takes place under the dark and billowing canvas of an empty circus tent, where a balloon-man and a popcorn-peddler have decided to play God and the devil, respectively, while a band of unidentified mummers re-enacts the story of Job.”

The review informed readers that the pompous brimming-with- balloon-man (played by Raymond Massey, “immensely dignified in a trim white beard”) assumed the role of God. Needing a foil, he has to coax the popcorn-peddler to take on the role of the devil.

The hawker with the tray of unsold popcorn does not relish the idea of playing the devil. But the popcorn-peddler (“performed with brilliant mockery by Christopher Plummer”) shrugs and murmurs, “Well, it’s a demanding role.” Almost immediately upon slipping on a glowing red, leering mask, which features a sneering lip, the popcorn-peddler warms to the role. The review informed readers that the moment he slips on the mask, “he discovers that the mask has its own life, that it speaks through him and for him; that, in fact, he cannot silence it.”

With that review I began to grasp the role-playing assignments of the play within a play. However, by my reading, the devil becomes increasing compassionate as the God character insists on dealing J.B. misfortune upon misfortune; tragedy upon tragedy; unbearable afflictions; ultimate suffering and utter despair.

Why is J.B. being tested so severely?

Reconstructing a “thorny” Biblical story

A few weeks following the play being announced as the year’s winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, Life magazine devoted a lengthy article to MacLeish’s “monumental achievement which parallels the Bible’s thorny story of Job.”

In that May 18, 1959 issue of Life, readers were informed that “After declaring his faith in God’s justice, J.B. is beset by senseless disasters.” As if those unwarranted tragedies aren’t sufficient, the God character feels emboldened to visit still more afflictions and torments – to further test J.B.’s willingness to accept the God character’s ways. The devil is certain that these additional torments and physical afflictions will destroy J.B.’s faith in God. The latter believes that J.B. will accept these sufferings as his fate, and affirm his faith.

According to Life, J.B. “comes to realize that his repentance is for sins he has not committed and thus he recognizes that God does not operate by the laws of human justice.”

The play’s appeal: An exegesis on “shit happens”? or, is it ordained?

The play is not set in any specific time or place on Earth, thus its performances and favorable reception around the world.

Though the play’s initial conversations are set in or around an earthbound circus tent, what transpires between the God-mask and the Satan-mask seems to be on a different plane from that of the Earth – somewhere above or below any identifiable terra firma.

The play has us consider whether virtue is indeed its own reward – the only reward that may be reasonably expected. The play has us ponder whether misfortune, calamity, and catastrophe are ordained, or whether “shit just happens” to good people regardless of their goodness.

There’s also the cause-and-effect conundrum: Did Job’s (the prosperous businessman’s) self-assured piety arise from his desire to express for all his prosperity? Was he pious out of uncertainty, or from of losing his good fortune? Or did genuine pre-prosperity piety earn him his initial prosperity?

In the play, following declarations of faith and thanks at the family's Thanksgiving dinner table, J.B. is, as the devil labels him, the perfect pigeon for what we are meant to judge as unwarranted, unjust and cruel tests of faith.

Is the devil proposing one harassment after another, as a challenge to God’s certainty, God’s faith in Job? Or, are the afflictions God’s answers to the devil’s doubts about Job’s tolerance and endurance? I am not clear as to which player instigated the power play.

What is a mere mortal’s relationship with God and what might a mere mortal reasonably expect of and from God? What are God’s commitments and obligations to mere mortals, if any?

Job (a/k/a "J.B.") and Sarah’s “let’s make a deal”

At their Thanksgiving table, Job’s wife pronounces “Grace,” which she tells her children is “for the .”

Mouth and meat by grace amazed

God upon my lips is praised….

But Sarah worries that they have too much of a good thing:

God doesn’t give all this for nothing….

If we do our part, He does His….

I get frightened, Job… we have so much.

In reply, J.B. assures her,

Not for a watch-tick have I doubted

God was on my side – was helping me….

People call it luck….

It isn’t luck when God is good to you….

With an ominous prescience, Sarah delivers this foreboding:

I know you trust it. That’s what frightens me…. God rewards and God can punish….

God and Satan’s wheel of misfortune: Sympathy from the devil

The vendor who has put down his tray of unsold popcorn dons the Satan-mask. Emboldened, he confronts the God-mask by referring to Sarah’s concern about J.B.’s certainty regarding their prosperity:

Bought and paid for like a waiter’s smirk.

Wait ’til you lift the lot, he’ll sing another canticle – to different music….

Wait ’til your pigeon pecks at the world the way the rest do.

From behind the God-mask, the balloon-hawker boasts to Satan:

Nothing this good man might suffer,

Nothing at all will make him yelp as you do.

He’ll praise God no matter.

By my reading, Satan (or the role-player) appears to be discomfited by God’s (or the role-player's) piling on of afflictions. If “suffering teaches,” surely J.B. has learned whatever lesson, passed whatever test, had been intended. So Satan asks,

Why then must he suffer?....

Why then try the trust?

I could be mistaken, but by my reading, the popcorn-vendor sheds his Satan role for a moment, out of concern for J.B.:

God won’t let it happen, not to Job, the perfect and upright man. Job deserves his luck. He’s earned it.

Not yet disaffected, J.B., sobbing, declares his acceptance of misfortune,

The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away.

God commands, Finish it, Blessed be the….

What hath God wrought? and why?

By my reading, Satan (or the actor playing Satan) feels for J.B. The actor playing God comes across as arrogant. The latter seems pleased that he has destroyed J.B. without cause.

The popcorn-vendor is taken aback by all the suffering visited upon Job, “without cause”:

It isn’t decent! It isn’t moral even. It’s disgusting! His weeping wife in her despair. And he beside her on his trembling ham bones. Taking it! Eating it! It isn’t decent!

God (the role-player?) is victorious in the fear challenge. To Satan, or to popcorn-vender playing at Satan, the balloon-hawker playing God boasts and gloats:

You don’t lose gracefully, do you?

J.B., persecuted in what could be viewed as a show-trial to test faith, cries out for an answer, an explanation. He is desperate to know why he has been so afflicted. He assures his bereft wife,

God will not punish without cause… God is just!

In response to his wife’s seemingly realistic, wholly understandable despair and , J.B., prostrate, pleads:

Show me my , o God!

Rising to his knees, arms outstretched, he repeats,

Show me my guilt, o God!

Satan (or is it the pretend Satan?) concludes that there seem to be “no reasons adequate to J.B.’s catastrophes.”

Guilt – very cold comfort

Satan seems to conclude that J.B. has been made “worthy of his wretchedness” by “the gift of guilt, that putrid poultice of the soul that sucks the poison in, not out!”

Still not disaffected, J.B. rebukes his Comforters (one presumably a psychiatrist and one a cleric). He declares,

Guilt matters. Guilt must always matter. Unless guilt matters the whole world is meaningless…. Guilt must always matter…. I’d rather suffer every unspeakable suffering God sends… knowing that I had earned the need to suffer.

A Comforter suggests that “from guilt, hope begins.” When J.B. retorts, “Show me my transgressions,” the Comforter advises, “Search your inmost heart! Question it! Guilt is a deceptive secret….”

Doubt – and hopeful hopelessness

Finally, J.B. becomes desperate to be told his fault; to learn what he did to justify him suffering so much misery. He asks, “Shall I repent of sins I have not sinned?"

The actor who plays at being God offers this perspective:

We take what God has sent – the Godsend….

A world where there can be injustice….

Finally disaffected and , J.B. declares,

I will not duck my head again to thunder.

In rebuke, the actor playing God stiffens:

We have no peace but in obedience.

Our peace is acquiescence in the Will of God.

J.B. counters with resentment and his own declaration of independence from “life as a filthy farce”:

I will not and neither will I weep among the obedient who lie down to die in meek relinquishment protesting nothing, questioning nothing, asking nothing but to rise again and bow!

In stage directions, MacLeish instructs the actor playing J.B. to move “slowly, with difficulty” to deliver, “at last,” to his wife, “the hard words” about God’s unwillingness to explain “Why”:

We can never know….

He answered me like the stillness of a star that silences us asking….

We are, and that is our answer. We are and what we are can suffer. But what suffers loves, and will live its suffering again, risk its own defeat again, endure the loss of everything again, and yet again and again, in doubt, in dread, in ignorance unanswered, over and over….

Theology in the Theatre: Is J.B. cynical and irreverent? sacrilegious? blasphemous?

In his 1960 Journal of Bible and Religion appraisal, Studies Professor Burton M. Wheeler wrote that amid the “comforting [to churchmen] sweetness and light” of some 20th century theater touching on religion, “Archibald MacLeish’s J.B. intruded on the scene with troublesome audacity.”

Professor Wheeler did acknowledge, “Whether or not the verse is thin or the vulgarity is stagey or the dramatic conditions are confused, J.B. has impact on an audience and its future for revivals seems assured.”

In his Life magazine essay, “Arid Repudiation of Religion,” the Reverend Thurston N. Davis asserted that J.B. was neither a religious drama or a play: “If J.B. means anything, it is an urbane but shallow repudiation of religious faith."

Reverend Davis was editor-in-chief of America, a weekly journal of opinion published by the Jesuits of the United States and Canada. He was a member of the Society of Jesus, a scholarly religious congregation of the Catholic Church. In his view, the play's ending tells all about playwright: “It becomes quite obvious that the God who has been ‘bullwhipping’ our contemporary Job with his thundering, amplified pronouncements suddenly becomes, in Mr. MacLeish’s hands, about as meaningless as the mask worn by the old balloon-vendor who plays the role and speaks the lines of God. If J.B. ‘means’ anything, it means that the God of the Job story – He who commands the morning… gets told off and sent ingloriously to the wings by Man.”

Rev. Davis conceded that, “On the positive side, J.B. tries hard in its closing moments to become a secular affirmation of human life and human love as the sole props and rationale of bewildered humanity.”

Nevertheless, having read the J.B. script and having seen the play itself on two occasions, Rev. Davis concluded his appraisal with questions and a somewhat damning rebuke: “Are there divine ‘reasons’ for human pain? Is there at last a Justice that will set things right? Is there a Mind and a Providence at work in human affairs? Is Man enveloped by God’s Love? If I read and hear him aright, MacLeish is saying No.”

An ancient confrontation, with modern implications

In his Life magazine essay “Modern Answers to an Enigma,” Reinhold Niebuhr, who was a professor at Union Theological Seminary, credited MacLeish with “undertaking a difficult task” – attempting to answer “searching questions about the meaningless of extreme human suffering.” The attempt, wrote Niebuhr, was done with “artistic ingenuity.”

Niebuhr explained that while MacLeish’s play emphasizes “meaningless suffering,” the play “neglects the ancient book’s even more searching question about the meaning of life.”

This, Niebuhr contended, is “an even deeper problem than that of meaningless suffering but one more poignantly relevant to an atomic age which has the greatness to discover nuclear energy but lacks the to avoid the risk of nuclear war. MacLeish neglects this vital dimension of the original.”

Theologian and ethicist Niebuhr wrote, “Though MacLeish himself evidently does not believe in a personal God,” he does have God appear to Job in “a whirlwind to confront him [J.B] with all the mysteries of creation to prove that there is a meaning to life beyond that which any mere man can provide from his own limited perspective.”

The need for answers and explanations

In his Life magazine essay “Insight into Our Deep Need,” Rabbi Louis Finkelstein, who was chancellor of New York’s Jewish Theological Seminary, opened his assessment with this: “What is most startling about MacLeish’s distinguished play is its success as a Broadway production. A moralistic fable, based on the most difficult and perplexing book in Scriptures, attracts crowds in numbers usually expected only at musical comedies. Obviously J.B. answers a deep need.”

Finkelstein, a Talmud scholar, observed, “The play conveys, of course, the unspoken agony of a generation which, having witnessed the most horrible war in history, fears even more horrible catastrophes….

“In MacLeish’s view, one of our greatest problems is our failure to find any purpose in the sufferings of our time.”

The Playwright felt the need to “confess” and contest

In an article for The Christian Century, Archibald MacLeish confirmed that J.B. is intended to posit that while “God is, man may know Him only through love.”

MacLeish continued, “The justification of the universe is not our blind acceptance of God’s inexplicable will, nor our trust in God’s love, his dark and incomprehensible love, for us, but our human love, notwithstanding anything, for him… love is the only possible answer to our ancient cry against injustice.”

Luck, hard-luck, and harsh judgments

The New Yorker magazine’s theater critic, Kenneth Tynan, found the 1958 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, presentation “flawless,” but wrote, “The same, unfortunately, cannot be said of the thing presented.

Tynan credited MacLeish with going at “the task of justifying the ways of God to man” by employing the Book of Job, “that greatest of hard-luck stories,” which the playwright “retold in the form of a morality play.” While the playwright clearly wanted to raise “whirlwinds,” the critic bristled at the play’s “devotion to an antique and extravagant concept of the Deity.”

In that critic’s view, God and Man were pugilists in a metaphorical boxing match under a circus tent: “After each new body blow, God’s chosen sparring partner staggers back off the ropes for more, to the delight of God and the chagrin of Satan,” who, seemed (to me) to have moved into J.B.’s corner in the hope that the pummeled and bloodied mortal would throw in his pious towel, to “renounce and curse his Creator.”

Like a number of critics, Tynan was quite displeased with the play’s resolution – finding it to be a betrayal of all that had preceded: “To say that the ending cheats is to put it mildly. The play rests on the assumption, everywhere endorsed by the text, that we are judged by God. It then poses the question: Why are we judged so harshly?”

Tynan skewered, “Long before the final curtain, I was bored to exasperation by the lack of any recognizable human response to calamity.”

Tynan asserted that “justice, which distributes punishments and rewards, is a human invention.” He declared, to be wronged by misfortune or injustice is “not an evidence of sin.”

A contrasting concept was presented in “J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man,” by Mary Frances Thelen, a Professor of Religion. Thelen observed that many reviewers “speak of the confusion in which the audience finds itself at the end as to what is the real outcome of the play, what the author has finally concluded concerning the problem of the suffering of the innocent.”

Yet, Professor Thelen would go on to assert that J.B. must surely have had “tangible sins and sinfulness of which to repent, even if he has done nothing so dreadful as to merit the crushing disasters which overtake him”

Divine doings, wrath? or Mankind’s interventions, exuberance and inattentions?

In the ultimate show of incontestable prowess, MacLeish has God come to J.B. in a whirlwind, highlighting all that is in His power and domain.

Can we reasonably extrapolate from that demonstration of might that God is to blame for hurricane-force winds, tornadoes, and the wildfires fanned and spread by wind? Are the torrential rains that bring devastating floods, rockslides, and mudslides punishments demanding a modern-day Noah?

Or, has been so impacted by Man, the steward and groundskeeper of Earth, as to despoil what was entrusted to Man by the Creator?

Are we to expect God’s intervention to halt and restore what came about as a result of Man’s inattention? over-extension?

Has Mankind’s unkindness to the planet rewritten the God-mortal pact to read, “The Lord giveth, and Man taketh away?”

All this is beyond me. I report, you decide.

But like J.B.’s wife, I do wonder how it is that I have been so very fortunate (so damn lucky), while others have not. “Why me?”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments:

J. B. – the Samuel French, Inc. acting edition

“Theater: MacLeish Drama Based on the Story of Job” New York Herald Tribune, December 30, 1958

“The Ageless Story of Job’s Ordeals in the Year’s Prize Play” Life magazine, May 18, 1959

“Job’s Ordeal in Great Play” Life magazine, December 22, 1958

“Theology and the Theatre” by Professor Burton M. Wheeler, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1960

The New Yorker magazine, Kenneth Tynan review, December 20, 1958

“J.B., Job, and the Biblical Doctrine of Man” by Mary Frances Thelen, published in the Journal of Bible and Religion, Oxford University Press, July 1959

“The Book of Job” by Archibald MacLeish, published in The Christian Century, April 8, 1959

The Book of Job: When Bad Things Happened to a Good Person (Nextbook Press) by Rabbi Harold Kushner, excerpted and adapted for Tablet magazine as “Bad Things, Good Person: Is Misfortune God’s Doing?” 3 October 2012

Special thanks to Janet Valeski of Quinnipiac University’s Bernhard Library, Christina DeLucia of Quinnipiac University’s School of Law Library, and Amy Bush of the University of California Davis Shields Library.

====== 291 ========

WHY ARE PATIENTS RELUCTANT TO TAKE MEDICATION?

I’ve been through this before, the emotional fragility and unwarranted tears. Depre—No. No. I couldn't bear the thought of returning to that black bottomless pit. I can't even bring myself to use the word.

I search my . Why now? Has something triggered it? A fleeting thought: Is it related to yesterday's bout of sensory overload?

I have cavernous angiomas, clusters of thin-walled blood vessels in my . Two of them had bled, turning my life upside-down. To prevent future bleeds, I underwent three brain surgeries to remove the culprits. The ordeal left me with a number of neurological challenges.

Source: Deb Brandon

Among the various meds I take to manage these issues, is the anti-seizure , Lamictal, which was prescribed by my neurologist several months before my surgeries. The 300 milligram daily dose was effective, but I looked forward to my post-surgery days. I was sure the surgeries would eliminate many of my symptoms, especially the seizures. I believed that eventually, I’d be able to wean myself off the Lamictal.

I was wrong—the seizures made a comeback, and my daily dose was increased to 400 milligrams.

It did not occur to me that the dose would go any higher. I certainly didn’t think that Lamictal would target another aftereffect of the surgeries— . In fact, the thought that I was suffering from biological depression didn’t enter my mind until I tumbled into the maw of suicide ideation.

During the first four months after the surgeries, I attributed my frequent tears to situational depression: I'd been through a lot; depression was to be expected. But after I became , of returning to that state of mind chased away denial, and I admitted my thoughts of suicide to my therapist, who pointed out that brain injury itself can cause depression. Since Lamictal is also a mood stabilizer, my psychiatrist increased my dose to 600 milligrams, which successfully controlled both depression and seizures.

Prior to the brain bleeds, I’d always kept my use of any type of medication to a minimum: painkillers for headaches and antibiotics for bacterial infections, nothing else. Now here I was, popping pills daily—6 pills to manage seizures and depression; two pills for blood pressure, to prevent additional bleeds; two pills for a folic-acid deficiency often associated with depression. In addition, I took a variety of pain-killers for crippling headaches. I felt like I was poisoning myself with all these meds, and the Lamictal was the worst of the lot, especially now that I was on a higher dose.

But I was that my depression was temporary. I was convinced that it was caused by the surgeries and that as I healed, my depression would subside. In time, I would be able to eliminate the Lamictal from my daily regimen of medication altogether.

Five years after the surgeries, my seizures and depression seemed to be things of the past, and, with my neurologist's and psychiatrist's blessings, I started decreasing the Lamictal dose. After a several trial runs with lowered dosages, I was down to 500 milligrams per day.

Unfortunately, a couple of years later, the meds lost effectiveness—once again depression shadowed my every step. My psychiatrist, instead of increasing the dose of Lamictal, augmented it with another anti-depressant, Celexa. Not only did my depression abate, but so did my spells of sensory overload.

Sensory overload: During my first few years of recovery, I had enormous difficulties processing incoming sensory data. When the circuits in my brain overloaded, they jammed up, causing confusion and panic, which usually brought on spectacular meltdowns followed by emotional fragility that sometimes lasted for days.

According to my psychiatrist, the Celexa, in addition to addressing depression, also reduced , which had been feeding into sensory overloads, making them worse.

But now, years post-surgery, sensory overload was a rare occurrence; at its worst, I merely teared up, and then only briefly.

But over the last few weeks, I'd occasionally become weepy for no apparent reason. At first, I assumed that theses episodes were related to sensory overload. But given their increasing frequency, I started to wonder.

Then this morning, more than a decade since the surgeries, with no warning, I found myself sobbing, tears streaming down my cheeks.

What was going on? I recalled that yesterday, after attending a crowded event at work, I suffered an extreme case of sensory overload, such as I hadn’t experienced in years. I hadn’t had a meltdown since…since when? Two, three years ago? Probably more. Was today’s crying jag just an aftereffect of yesterday’s overload?

I shied away from the thought that this morning’s tears were due to depression once again descending. But I couldn’t repress my whispering about the possibility. I can't afford to stick my head in the sand. I cannot risk spiraling into the abyss like I did so long ago.

I probably should make an appointment with my psychiatrist as soon as possible—but she might increase the dosage of Lamictal or Celexa, and I feel the old resistance to "more meds" rise up. Will it do any harm to wait a bit longer? Maybe this just be a blip that will pass.

I’m calmer now, no longer crying. Yes, I decide, I can afford to wait and see. I’ll hold off, for now. Until tomorrow, if I find myself weeping uncontrollably again, for absolutely no reason.

====== 292 ========

THE BEAUTY OF CONNECTIONS

Source: Photo by B. Luceigh

I feel driven to offer reflections on beautiful connections between humans. Perhaps my need arises to counterbalance sad prompted by the upcoming holidays, the weariness of ongoing divisive news, or the horrors of recent fires and floods. In the midst of many shadows, I am especially sensitive to the universal presence of what I experience as the Light of .

When I have a brief, sincere, face-to-face interaction with a stranger, I often sense delicate wavelets of Beauty passing through me. These encounters occur in safe public settings. The interactions are as simple as thanking someone for holding a door open for me, initiating a chat while waiting in line, or just smiling at someone as we pass on the sidewalk. I have become more observant of others doing likewise. In such situations, I have no need to know the stranger’s history, values, or views. I have no motive other than to connect beautifully. I best do so when I am fully present in the simple moments of the exchange. They are moments of connection, human with human, through mutual acknowledgement of each other’s existence.

I am likely to quickly forget any single connection amidst whatever I was otherwise doing at the time. Each event is like a punctuation mark within the paragraphs of my life. Each indicates when to pause, be alert, be curious, or stop as my personal story unfolds. What is most meaningful to me is the collection of not only mine but all such interactions with strangers. That collection serves to remind me again and again that there are other humans across our planet also interweaving beautiful connections among our species. I am reminded I am not alone at the deepest level of our shared humanity even though we each differ in our outward expressions of it. I am always a participant in life, but I better experience its Wholeness when I share the awareness of it by simple moments of connection. It is a practice that opens my heart and broadens my mind to our common inheritance as children of Earth.

Other connections that have been ongoing for longer periods of time become . More time allows for varieties of shared experience, exploration of values and preferences, and formation of memories. Over time, caring relationships may become deeper, stronger, and more loving ones as Beauty expresses herself within their connections.

When I consider my loving relationships in the context of the whole of existence, I see each as a form arising from universal Beauty—like a rosebud rising from an amorphous cloud. A deeply loving relationship provides evolving connections to nurture each other’s continuous developmental transformation into a more beautiful human flower. To “grow up” psychologically and “wake up” spiritually, whether as individuals or as a relationship, are exquisite expressions of Beauty’s limitless connections into forms.

When I have a brief, sincere connection to a stranger, I wonder if a micro-version of a loving relationship momentarily comes into being. Perhaps it’s like the brief fragrance of a rose emanating from inside a flower shop as one passes—noticed for only a moment before being lost by the next breath. I wonder if some small influence to connect can be recorded in the heart-mind of a stranger I speak to or smile at. I like to believe the voice or smile leaves a delicate memory that joins and enhances related memories within that person—like multiple times smelling a rose from outside a flower shop strengthens a single conscious recollection.

Might beautiful experiences join together to work their way from the unconscious to the conscious heart-mind within a human? Might the recipient of beautiful encounters with multiple strangers motivate one to transform into a more beautiful human? Might multiple times smelling roses entice one to take the first step into the flower shop? When I am sincerely present for another human, stranger or not, am I serving in that moment as Beauty’s fragrance drawing forth the soft edge of the rosebud of his/her potential as a human?

My belief in Beauty prompts me to find ways to embody her as I connect to others. My belief in Beauty reminds me that Good and True connections to others will help heal dark moments in our lives. Over time, I believe brief, sincere connections between strangers can transform into deeply caring relationships among humanity.

As you hold open the shop door for me,

may my as I pass

hold open your heart for you.

====== 293 ========

HALFWAY THROUGH THE WOOD

Source: Photo: Jessica Teich, used with permission

On a hot, still Sunday morning, I got an email from a dear friend’s ex-husband and son. It had a deceptively simple subject heading: “Sad News.”

It is with deep sorrow that we inform you that Judy passed away earlier today at her Santa Monica home. She was surrounded by her loved ones after a long struggle with her illness, which she kept very private.

“Very private” was an understatement: She hadn’t told anyone she was dying. No one even knew she was sick. Yet Judy wasn’t afraid even of the most difficult subjects, including her from the man who came back to care for her when she was ailing, or the terrible death of her own mother, whose giant necklace she wore like a talisman.

Judy and I first met more than twenty years ago, sitting on the floor of one of those progressive preschools where all the other moms were wearing yoga pants. When she said her name was Judy Blume— a name she shared with the beloved children’s author— I grinned and said I still had some questions about menstruation. (Remember Are You There God? It’s Me,Margaret?)She laughed, obligingly, I’m sure, and launched into one of the searching conversations that were her signature.

That’s the kind of conversation I want to have with her now. About her.

Judy was a literary person, a theatre person, and she particularly loved Stephen Sondheim. In fact, “Sondheim Fan” was her “handle,” before we even knew what handles were. She once sat in my living room and sang “No One is Alone” with my five-year-old daughter.

Sometimes people leave you

Halfway through the wood.

For a long time, she secretly rehearsed a cabaret act of her favorite songs. To console myself, I imagine her as one of T.S. Eliot’s mermaids, “singing, each to each.” Then I remember: I will never hear her voice again, just as Eliot never hears his mermaids:

I do not think that they will sing to me.

No one is alone, according to her beloved Sondheim, but Judy was, or nearly. When I began contacting our mutual , they were as surprised and devastated as I. I had sensed something was off and kept reaching out to her, mostly by text— the staccato informality seemingly a substitute for :

Where are you?

Are you okay?

Then one day I ventured, how are you feeling?

“Null,” she shot back.

The daughter with whom she’d sung Sondheim and I laughed, thinking Judy meant “well,” but had been autocorrected.

Now I wonder if “null” meant “ill,” and I just didn’t know it.

Why didn’t she want anyone to know?

Maybe it was pride, because she didn’t like to be fawned over. Or a healthy : She wanted to be remembered as she was. Vivid black hair, and that low, liquid voice, and the way she gave the word “theatre” three syllables. Bold enough in late middle age to wear a bathing suit to a pool party, plunging into the velvety water on a cold summer day. Judy worked out on the Santa Monica stairs for years, long after it was healthy for her hip. When she fell silent, I wondered if that hip was bothering her again. Maybe she needed a replacement? Were we really that old?

We met, sitting on pillows at a preschool.

Now our toddlers were turning 21.

Judy worked for years as a film editor, but left the profession when the hours proved too hard for a mostly single mother. She later became a therapist, graduating from a program many Hollywood people turn to in . I wouldn’t have thought her filmmaking skills would translate to : Therapists don’t edit things; they let the material emerge and take its own shape. But Judy had the most essential quality: she listened deeply. Very few people do. And I would have heard her, if she’d said, “I’m really ill” or “I’m dying.” I would have listened if she’d wanted to say good-bye.

“It’s me,” Judy Blume said whenever she called. She never said her name, that fabled name. If we were close enough that she needn’t have identified herself on the phone, wasn’t I close enough to know she was dying? I could have been there, to bring soup, to fluff pillows, to sing Sondheim; to help with the meds or the bills or the household chores. I could have been there, to recall the preschool playdates, the middle school struggles, the moment we began to let go of our kids in high school, because we had to.

We let go because we had no other choice.

One last , of bumping into her in an art museum in Los Angeles. She and her German beau (now her ex) were going to the desert to get married. Their son was three years old, and it seemed like the right time. I marveled at her cool, back in a day when people—at least nice Jewish girls from Philadelphia suburbs— got married before having a baby. She was impressively free. An iconoclast.

So, of course, she would choose to die in a way unlike anyone else. And I must let her go, not as I would wish to, but as she insisted I do.

Still, I haven’t been able to delete her final text message with the word “null.” I try not to dwell on the terrible void it describes. Sometimes I want to shout into the abyss, as if confronting the Judy Blume who wrote provocative children’s books: I’ve got questions! About life! About the end of things! About the pain you must have suffered, and the .

And the question, also without an answer, that tugs at me with an almost tidal pressure: How can I accept that I will never see you again?

Judy was a film editor, but she edited out all the interstitial tissue that binds our ideas about death; the long, labored days that allow loved ones to grieve. She left behind so many questions, not just about her only child but about her house and her dogs, Siberian huskies with piercing Arctic eyes. “They’re escape artists,” she once said of the two goliaths, forever finding their way out of her yard.

Judy was an escape artist, too.

It’s left to us to remember her, sleek as an otter in the water. Or singing.

It’s left to us to love her and let go.

