====== 1 ========

Teens and tweens sue United States over climate change

Levi Draheim is just 11 years old. Yet he and 20 other young people have sued the U.S. government. Their case centers on actions that foster climate change. For more than a century, human activities have been increasing the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. That increase has triggered a huge host of effects globally, from changes in weather to ice melting at the poles.

Levi lives in Satellite Beach, Fla. He had to leave his home because of strong hurricanes. Heavy rains flooded the town’s streets. And he had trouble breathing during red tides. A red tide can develop when harmful ocean algae grow out of control.

Climate change is making these events more frequent or more severe. Levi and his family also have another climate-change-related problem. Sea level is rising. “If climate change worsens, the barrier island that I live on will be gone,” he explains.

The young people say the U.S. government allowed and continues to encourage the use of fossil fuels. Burning those fuels emits greenhouse gases, driving climate change. The youths want the government to rein in that pollution — now. And so they filed suit against the government in 2015.

The case has had multiple delays. The government initially asked the trial court to throw out the case. The court said no. The government complained to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. That court reviews federal court decisions from several western states. That court said the case could go ahead, and the Supreme Court agreed. Both sides did work to get ready for trial. Experts filed reports. Lawyers asked witnesses questions under oath. The government again tried to get the case thrown out without a trial. Again, the trial court said no. The Ninth Circuit refused to step in and stop a trial.

Finally, trial was set to start on October 29, 2018. But on October 19, U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts told the trial court to hold up. The youths’ lawyers objected. On November 2, the Supreme Court finally agreed that the trial can go forward. Right now, there is no way to predict precisely when that will happen.

This October 29 rally at a federal courthouse in San Francisco, Calif., was held to protest a delay in the Juliana v. United States court case. Legal action that had delayed the trial has now been lifted. Peg Hunter/Flickr ( CC BY-NC 2.0

Threats to life, liberty and property

The U.S. government has known for decades that fossil-fuel emissions lead to climate change, says lawyer Phil Gregory. Based in Redwood, Calif., he’s one of the lawyers for the young people in their lawsuit. Yet despite that knowledge, the government “allows and enables those emissions” in a variety of ways, he says. It issues permits for drilling oil and mining coal. It leases some public lands to fossil-fuel companies. It gives the fossil-fuel industry tax breaks or other types of financial help. It lets places that burn fossil fuels release greenhouse gases directly into the air.

Taken together, these government actions endanger the plaintiffs’ lives, liberties and property, the youths claim in their lawsuit. In Fairbanks, Alaska, for example, 19-year old Nathan Baring faces more severe ice storms and bad air quality from summer wildfires. Jaime Butler, 17, of Flagstaff, Ariz., had to move from her home on a Navajo reservation because of water shortages. Climate change will bring even more severe droughts to her region. More severe storms and other extreme weather threaten 20-year old Sophie Kivlehan of Allentown, Pa. Others in the suit are similarly affected by climate change.

These plaintiffs — the people bringing the lawsuit — say the government’s actions violate basic rights under the U.S. Constitution. They also make a claim under what’s known as the public trust doctrine. It says the government must protect essential natural resources, such as air and water. Such protections should be for the good of everyone living now and in the future.

Government lawyers claim the law does not allow the youths’ claims. They also say the plaintiffs won’t be able to prove that the government’s actions have caused any specific harm to these children.

The lawsuit is a bit unusual. For instance, it doesn’t seek money for personal injuries. Instead, it claims that the government’s actions threaten the plaintiffs’ fundamental constitutional rights to life and liberty. And it wants the government to make and follow a science-based plan to rein in climate change.

Gregory, the lawyer, compares the climate change case to Brown v. Board of Education. In that 1954 Supreme Court case, experts described how separate schools based on race are inherently harmful to minority students. And the court agreed that it was unconstitutional. In the new lawsuit, “science shows that continued burning of fossil fuels will cause harm,” Gregory says. His plaintiffs say the Constitution forbids the government from taking actions that foster that harm. And they say the government must protect the planet for people now and in the future.

Science is key

John Walsh is a climate scientist at the International Arctic Research Center. It’s part of the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. “From the science side, there’s high confidence that climate is changing,” Walsh says. And extreme events such as strong hurricanes, droughts, heat waves and floods from rains “are going to become more frequent in the future.” He adds, “The path that we follow with emissions of our greenhouse gases will make a real difference in future climate.”

Walsh isn’t participating in the lawsuit. But other climate scientists can be found among the reports from the 21 expert witnesses whose statements have been filed in the case. These include climate scientist James Hansen, who heads up the Climate Science, Awareness and Solutions Program at Columbia University’s Earth Institute. That’s in New York City. Hansen is also Sophie’s grandfather.

Government actions on fossil-fuel use have “floored the emissions accelerator” for greenhouse gases, Hansen says in his expert report. That action hurdles the natural world toward points where future actions won’t be able to stop negative effects from occurring. The plaintiffs are therefore threatened by these actions, he says. And their plight won’t improve without major and timely action to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.

The experts have each highlighted different effects of climate change. Kevin Trenberth is a climate scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. Climate change is already a factor in extreme weather, his expert report says. If people don’t cut back on emitting greenhouse gases, he wrote, “the security and lives of young people and future generations are and will be increasingly threatened by ever more extreme weather events.”

Frank Ackerman is an economist with Synapse Energy Economics in Cambridge, Mass. The government has “dismissed or devalued the serious harm from climate change that young people and future generations will experience,” his expert report says. In his view, that discriminates against young people today and in the future.

And climate change will also have health impacts. Lise Van Susteren is a psychiatrist in Washington, D.C. Climate-change impacts “harm children, not just physically, but psychologically,” her expert report says.

The plaintiff’s lawyers have asked the court to schedule a hearing so that the trial can move forward. The young people believe their case is strong.

As Levi explains: “Science is still on our side.”

====== 2 ========

The odd ways that weather can unfold in a warming world

This is the third in a 10-part series about the ongoing global impacts of climate change. These stories will look at the current effects of a changing planet, what the emerging science suggests is behind those changes and what we all can do to adapt to them.

Hurricane Harvey slammed into Houston, Texas, on August 25, 2017. Normally, hurricanes keep moving. Their high winds and torrential rains tend to last for only a brief time. But Harvey just sat over the city. For days. And it dumped a lot of rain. Really, a lot. By the time the storm had moved on, on August 29, it had drowned Houston with a whopping 164 centimeters (64.6 inches) of water, according to one rain gauge. That’s a record rainfall from one storm in one place in the continental United States. In fact, Harvey dumped so much rain that the National Weather Service had to add new colors to their rainfall maps of the event.

Hurricane Harvey brought a lot of rain to Texas. In this series of images, the storm makes landfall. Warmer colors indicate more precipitation. OSPO/NOAA

Rising waters inundated more than 300,000 homes. That drove around 40,000 residents to take refuge in shelters across Texas and Louisiana. And of the some 100 people who died during the storm, more than 65 perished from flooding. Including damage from strong winds, researchers estimate that the storm caused more than $125 billion in damage. That tally makes Harvey the second-costliest hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland.

Hurricanes are a normal part of summertime weather. Since 1966, when satellites began daily monitoring of the North Atlantic Ocean, there have been an average of six hurricanes — and never less than two — per year. But more and more studies are revealing that human-caused climate change is influencing the size and fury of these storms.

And heavier rains and stronger storms are not the only ways in which a warming world is making our weather weirder. Higher temperatures can trigger droughts. Heat waves become more likely, and droughts can make them even worse. There can be changes to both global and local weather patterns. And the effects won’t always be what’s expected. In one truly odd twist, the continuing loss of summertime sea ice in the Arctic Ocean — one big result of a warming world — could make Siberian winters colder. What could be wackier than that?

Hurricane Harvey dumped a record-breaking amount of rain in the Houston area in 2017. Episodes of heavy rainfall are expected to become more common as Earth’s climate warms. Karl Spencer/iStockPhoto

Whence the weather?

Take a look outside. Is it hot and dry or cool and rainy? Cloudy or clear? Windy or calm? These are all aspects of the weather where you are. Simply put, weather is a snapshot of what’s happening in the atmosphere at a particular time and place. Lots of things affect the weather. That’s why meteorologists may have difficulty predicting what next week’s weather may be in any particular spot. Climate scientists, in contrast, have a pretty good handle on overall patterns of global weather.

Differences in how some regions heat up compared to others have a big influence on the weather. For instance, near the poles, the sun almost always hugs the horizon. In some seasons, one polar region basks in round-the-clock sunshine while the other languishes in darkness. These sorts of heating differences can trigger the development of high- and low-pressure areas in the atmosphere, says Sean Sublette. He’s a meteorologist with Climate Central in Princeton, N.J. That organization brings together scientists and journalists who research and report facts about Earth’s changing climate and its impacts.

Because air flows away from areas of high pressure, heating differences ultimately create winds. Over broad regions and long distances, winds travel on slightly curving paths due to Earth’s rotation. In the Northern Hemisphere, winds travel clockwise around a high-pressure system. Air rushing into a low-pressure area north of the equator generally swirls in the other direction. (If you pay close attention to weather reports during the nightly news, you can see these motions depicted on weather maps.)

On a more local scale, weather is often affected by the clash of air masses, notes Sublette. Thunderstorms, for example, can erupt where warm, humid air collides with cooler air. This triggers water vapor to condense. Eventually it falls as rain.

In recent decades, scientists have noted that episodes of heavy rains have become more common. In large part, says Sublette, that trend has been triggered by climate change. Scientists have noted that global average temperature has been, for the most part, rising steadily throughout recent decades. And for every 0.6 degree Celsius (1 degree Fahrenheit) increase in air temperature, the amount of water vapor the air can hold increases about 4 percent.

In the Northern Hemisphere, winds travel clockwise around a high pressure system (H) and counter-clockwise around a low pressure system (L). NWS/NOAA

“Climate change is supercharging the water cycle,” he explains. Warmer air causes more water to evaporate from lakes, seas and moist soil. Now there’s more moisture in the air that can condense into raindrops. This is one source of bigger downpours, he notes.

In the United States, yearly precipitation for the lower 48 states has increased about 4 percent since 1901, a recent report found. In particular, clusters of thunderstorms in the central United States during warm months have been developing more often and dumping more rain. That’s especially true since 1979, the researchers note.

David Easterling helped to put together the report. He’s a climate scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Information in Asheville, N.C. The frequency and intensity of storms are projected to increase nationwide for the rest of this century, he says. But not all areas of the country will suffer the same rates of increase. The U.S. Southwest will likely see smaller increases in rainfall than northern states. But maybe that’s not surprising, because southwestern states typically are drier than others.

Rainfall going to extremes

Across the Houston region, Hurricane Harvey dumped an average of about 84 centimeters (33 inches) of water. That’s probably more rain from one storm than the region had seen at one time in centuries, a new analysis suggests. What’s more, the study hints, that sort of furious rainfall could easily occur much more often in the future.

As our planet has heated up, so have its seas. The warmer those waters are, the more water that will evaporate from the ocean surface, notes Easterling. The energy stored in warm tropical waters fuels the tropical storms known as hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons, depending on location. The more moisture present in a storm’s clouds, the more that can fall as rain.

Kerry Emanuel is an atmospheric scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. Late last year, he used computer models of hurricanes to estimate how often Harvey-like rainfalls have deluged the Houston area. Then, he used the same computer programs to look into the future. And his results aren’t encouraging for the folks in Texas, where Harvey’s flooding displaced thousands of residents.

Emanuel started by creating thousands of cyber-storms. If one of the storms in these computer simulations passed within 300 kilometers (190 miles) of Houston and had winds higher than 74 kilometers (46 miles) per hour, he made an estimate of how much rain it would have dumped. If conditions were always like those in the late 20th century, he found, Houston likely would see storms dump 50 centimeters (20 inches) or more only once every 2,000 years.

As Earth’s climate has warmed in recent decades, the average number of days each year in the United Sates in which rainfall was more than 7.62 centimeters (3 inches) above normal has risen (see rising blue line). Climate Central

Then, he ran the same simulations again. Now he used climate conditions expected to occur between 2081 and 2100. Greenhouse-gas levels might be a lot higher during those years. And during this period, the Houston area might experience major deluges once a century, not once every two millennia. Emanuel reported his findings November 13, 2017 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

People often think of climate change only as a problem for the future. But Emanuel’s analysis reveals that that’s not true. Over the course of 100 years, he found, the chances of extreme rainfall increased about 18 percent. So, if the risk of extreme rainfall in the Houston area is steadily increasing, then the chances of the region seeing Harvey-like precipitation is today about six times what is was just 20 years ago. And because temperatures are rising worldwide, on average that means the chances globally of extreme flooding are on the rise, too.

Droughts and heat waves

Studies have shown that droughts, like the one that plagued California from 2011 to 2017, also will occur more often in the future. So will heat waves. Again, both are due to climate change. But a new analysis hints at something even more dire: They will happen more frequently. And when these phenomena both occur at the same time, each will reinforce the effects of the other.

Heat waves are extended periods marked by temperatures much higher than average for that particular region. Consider the summer of 2018. In late June and early July, an excessive heat wave in the United Kingdom may have killed hundreds of people. In early July, a five-day heat wave — including one day of record-breaking temperatures — hit Montreal, Canada. Researchers estimate some 70 people there also died, due at least in part due to the heat. A few weeks later, Japan suffered a two-week-long heat wave. This heat spell killed dozens and sent thousands more to the hospital.

In the future, such heat waves will occur more frequently for two reasons. First, climate change has boosted temperatures in most regions. That means higher-than-normal temperatures are themselves more common. But climate change, in general, also has weakened a high-altitude river of strong winds. Known as the jet stream, it helps push weather systems from west to east. A weaker jet stream means that weather systems of all sorts, whether heat waves or flooding rains, move more slowly. So storms have a better chance of dropping more rain in one spot. And heat waves have a better chance of hanging around longer.

In a warming world where rainfall is gradually increasing, it doesn’t seem as if drought should be a problem. But oddly, Sublette observes, both rainfall and drought can both be on the rise. “You’d think everything would balance out, but that’s not the case,” he says. Warmer temperatures will increase evaporation. That pulls more moisture from soil and sends it into the atmosphere. When that moisture falls back to earth as rain, sometimes it can’t soak into the soil quickly enough. So it runs off into rivers and streams. That’s especially true when the rains fall in extreme amounts, he explains.

Droughts and heat waves by themselves are bad enough. But together, they can be especially devastating, says Felicia Chiang. She’s a hydrologist at the University of California, Irvine. (Hydrologists study the flow of water, especially in its liquid form, over and through Earth’s surface.) Chiang’s team recently looked at the combined effects of heat waves and droughts in the continental United States.

Droughts and heat waves can combine to make for very dry conditions on the ground. ed-line/iStockphoto

When water evaporates, or transforms from a liquid to a gas, it soaks up a lot of energy. Evaporation dries out the soil, of course. But it also cools the air and ground. (Think of this process as the planet sweating.) Now, consider what happens in an area that’s in the middle of a drought. With little or no moisture in the soil, a lot more of the sunlight’s energy goes toward heating the ground, says Chiang. That, in turn, heats the air a lot more than it would have if the soil had been moist.

In their new analysis, Chiang and her teammates looked at weather data collected in the lower 48 states during two 50-year-long windows of time. One lasted from 1902 through 1951. The other one stretched from 1965 through 2014. First, they calculated the temperature difference between these two eras. And the more recent era was, on average, 0.25 degree C (0.45 degree F) warmer than the early 20th century. That was due to climate change, she notes. Then, the team calculated the temperature difference between the two eras only for sites experiencing droughts — and then only during those droughts. The temperature increase during the later era at these sites during their droughts was 1.06 degrees C (1.9 degrees F). Chiang and her teammates reported their findings August 1 in Science Advances.

This trend will only worsen with time. The drought-induced boost in heating will have widespread effects, the researchers suggest. While cities swelter in extended heat, crops in the countryside may be stunted or fail. Wild animals as well as livestock will suffer. And the wildfires that plagued drought-stricken areas from California to Greece this summer may be just a preview of what’s in store.

Unexpected effects

In general, it makes sense that droughts could make a heat wave worse. But who would expect that in a warming world, some areas would actually get colder? That’s exactly what scientists have noticed in recent years about winters in Siberia. The odd weather pattern is so unusual — and has been so baffling for so long — that scientists have given it a name. They call it the “warm Arctic, cold Siberia,” or WACS. Now, researchers may have come up with an explanation for this puzzling trend.

Previous attempts to explain the WACS trend had been unsuccessful, notes Pengfei Zhang. He’s an atmospheric scientist now at the University of California, Santa Barbara. A number of teams had tried to duplicate the trend using computer models. But he says none were successful. Some people pointed to those failures as proof that climate models are no good. Others used the models’ findings to dismiss the idea of climate change being real, says Zhang. Those skeptics suggested that what many scientists call “global warming” was actually just natural variability in climate.

Zhang and his teammates decided to investigate more deeply.

As Earth’s climate warmed in recent decades, the summertime meltback of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean, especially off the northern coast of Asia, has actually made winters in Siberia colder. NASA Video/YouTube

Many previous teams had relied on climate models that lacked many details. In particular, he notes, depictions of the atmosphere above the troposphere (TROH-puh-sfeer) — the lowest level of the atmosphere — weren’t very complete. And that might be important, they realized. After all, the troposphere is where most weather takes place.

Those simple models run fast, Zhang notes. But they didn’t necessarily give them good answers.

For a new analysis, Zhang’s team crafted a model that included a simulated atmosphere that extended up from Earth’s surface for some 140 kilometers (87 miles). Plus, they divided the atmosphere into more than 60 layers. As such, it was very detailed. Its simulations took more than 2 million hours of computing time, says Zhang. But they also offered a much better simulation of the planet.

First, the team ran a simulation representing the climate and sea-ice conditions in the Arctic Ocean for the years 1980 through 1999. Those results set a baseline against which other simulations could be compared. Then, the team ran the same simulation but reduced the amount of Arctic Ocean sea ice along Russia’s northern coast to match modern-day conditions. Sea ice has been disappearing in this part of the Arctic, especially in the fall. That loss of sea ice meant the ocean north of Russia was losing extra heat to the atmosphere.

The computer model projected that such a sea-ice loss would change overall weather patterns here in a number of ways. First, a persistent high-pressure area over western Russia strengthened. A generally long-lived low-pressure area over eastern Russia also got stronger. These trends combined to bring frequent bursts of cold air to Siberia from December through February. That’s the same sort of unusual weather pattern that researchers for decades had been seeing in the real world.

Then, Zhang and his team tweaked their model. They had the sea ice match what’s now found in the Arctic. And they dialed back the simulation’s interaction between the troposphere and the stratosphere high above it. This didn’t let heat rising from the ocean warm up the stratosphere so much. The result: There were relatively few outbreaks of cold weather in Siberia. In other words, this model now predicted just what Siberia had been experiencing.

This finding shows the importance of including the stratosphere in the team’s computer model of climate, says Zhang. Indeed, when they restored the interaction between troposphere and stratosphere but left sea ice in their simulation, Siberian winters were colder than average but not nearly as cold as those observed in recent years.

Zhang and his colleagues described their results online in the July 25 Science Advances.

“People ask,” Sublette says, “‘How can any place in the world be getting colder, when the world overall is warming?’” These sorts of simulations describe one shift in weather patterns that could make that happen, he notes.

Such findings also bolster the notion that links between climate and weather, especially at the local level, can yield unexpected — and uncomfortable — results.

====== 3 ========

Is climate change fanning megafires?

The biggest fire in California history ignited shortly after noon on July 27, 2018, and burned until mid-September. Called the Mendocino Complex Fire, its twin infernos started at the same time. They also burned close to one another and quickly blazed across forested lands. Together, they charred more than 1,800 square kilometers (700 square miles) — an area nearly half the size of the state of Rhode Island. Ninety crews of firefighters worked to contain it. They used hundreds of fire engines, 20 helicopters, 76 bulldozers and other tools. One firefighter died and four were injured. More than 150 homes burned, and smoke from the fire spread through the sky to nearby states.

Six of the state's worst fires blazed in 2017 and 2018. A wildfire that burned through Napa Valley in October 2017 was particularly bad. Before it ignited, people who lived in the area described incredible winds that could knock a person over. Once the fire started, witnesses saw fires jump across roads, rip through vast fields of grapes and hop over hills. During more than three weeks, the fire claimed 22 lives, destroyed more than 5,000 structures and burned more than 146 square kilometers (56 square miles). That’s an area as big as one-and-a-half Disney Worlds. By year end, 2017 became California’s worst wildfire year on record.

Many areas across the world have seen a rise in extreme fires in recent years. Those include western U.S. states and southern Europe. They also include places you might not expect.

For example, wildfires used to be uncommon on Alaska’s North Slope. This region borders the Arctic Ocean and is home to the largest U.S. oil field. Now, however, fires are igniting there more frequently. The same is true in other Arctic regions. In July, for instance, people had to evacuate cities in northern Sweden as wildfires swept through them.

Some reasons for the rise in destructive fires are clear. People have been building homes on the edge of forests that face a high risk of fire. Periods of heavy rainfall can also spur a massive growth in vegetation. If that same area later experiences a drought — and California has suffered from many droughts in recent years — that new vegetation may dry out and become tinder that burns easily.

“The Napa Valley fires were a good example of this,” said Timothy Brown. He spoke during an online press briefing in August 2018. (It had been organized by a science communication project called SciLine.) During the briefing, experts talked about climate and weather. “Extreme precipitation in the winter and spring allowed for extensive [vegetation] growth,” he noted. “Then, when that dried later in the fall, it became very flammable and susceptible to ignition.” Brown is a climate scientist at the Desert Research Institute in Reno, Nev.

The signal of climate change

Has climate change made wildfires worse and megafires more likely? That’s what Brown and other climate scientists want to know. More importantly, they worry that more intense fires could become the new normal.

Studies have long predicted that warmer temperatures, due to climate change, make droughts and heat waves more likely. Many areas hit by recent fires had suffered through extreme droughts and heat waves.

But connecting individual fires to climate change is complicated. That’s partly because fire is complicated. Blaming climate change for any single fire is too simple. It ignores the natural conditions that make fire possible. But hotter days and warmer nights, caused by changes in the climate, do likely boost the risk of fire.

Scientists are still trying to agree on what makes a blaze ignite and spread. A wildfire has three main ingredients. First, it needs a spark. This can come from lightning or a downed power line. It can also come from negligent or malicious people who set fires by accident or on purpose. Brown points out that people start four out of every five wildfires. Second, a fire needs fuel to burn. This can be the trees in the forest or the dead “litter” — leaves, twigs and grass — on or near the forest floor. Finally, a fire needs weather conditions, like wind and no rain, to help it spread.

Many studies predict that climate change will boost the number of droughts and heat waves. Fire-ravaged areas, including California and Sweden, have had extreme droughts and extreme heat in recent years. Some scientists point to these weather events as proof that climate change makes wildfires worse.

But it’s even more complicated than that, says Janice Coen.

Fires can make their own weather

Coen is a meteorologist at UCAR. That’s the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. Testing hypotheses about fire is difficult, she explains. After all, scientists can’t go out and start a megafire. But she can make a computer model to test various ideas about the conditions that play a role in them. And that is exactly what Coen and her team did.

California’s 2014 King Fire burned for 27 days. During that time, it destroyed 12 homes. It was started by a man who recorded a selfie of himself right afterward. (He’s now in jail.) Coen wanted to know why the blaze raced so quickly through a forest canyon. To find out, she recreated the fire with a computer program. It used math to study how air particles move. It included data about temperature, humidity, air pressure and wind speeds. Those measurements had been collected by satellites, weather stations and special planes with onboard sensors.

Smoke from the King Fire can be seen in this September 17, 2014 satellite image of the border between California and Nevada. NASA/Wikimedia Commons

These data helped her team explore why the King fire behaved as it did. Laws of physics “tell us what the answer ought to be,” she explains. Those answers can then help scientists predict how future fires will behave.

Some ecologists said the King fire burned so fast and so intensely because it had so much fuel. No fires had burned in that area for years. As a result, leaves and other plant debris had built up on the forest floor. Other researchers blamed the drought. But Coen found yet another culprit: the atmosphere. She reported her findings in the May Ecological Applications.

As a fire burns, it releases heat and water vapor, a gas. As that hot air rises, cooler air is drawn in at the bottom. This process creates a column of rising air. It also creates wind. In the case of the King Fire, those local winds drove the fire into new vegetation — more fuel, Coen’s team reported. As the fire grew, it created more wind, which made the fire more intense. That phenomenon, combined with the shape of the canyon, led to the fire’s rapid spread.

“Weather directs the fire,” she says. “The fire, in turn, can change the weather.” When she ran the simulated fire without drought conditions, the blaze behaved almost the same way. That suggests the long drought and heat wave had not worsened the fire. Instead, the canyon’s shape and local weather conditions had boosted its intensity.

The terrible fires that have ravaged California in 2018 arose from a complex mix of ingredients. These included the Santa Ana winds, which blow hot and dry through the state every fall. They also included a lack of the rain that usually develops in the cooler months. Less rain may be due to a La Niña event (a natural phenomenon that affects weather patterns worldwide). Some of those ingredients may have been worsened by climate change. But as Coen's study points out, finding some clear fingerprint of climate change in wildfires is not easy.

====== 4 ========

Fingerprint of climate change shows up in some extreme weather

This is the second in a 10-part series about the ongoing global impacts of climate change. These stories will look at the current effects of a changing planet, what the emerging science suggests is behind those changes and what we all can do to adapt to them.

In late 2013, something big and strange showed up in the Gulf of Alaska. Scientists called it “the Blob.”

Meet the Blob. The orange and yellow areas show parts of the Gulf of Alaska in a heat wave that first began in 2013. NOAA/ESRL Physical Sciences Division

It wasn’t a monster. Instead, it was a monstrous amount of heat in the surface water of the northern Pacific. And it didn't begin to dissipate until 2016. Scientists soon observed the same heat-up farther south. It appeared off the coasts of states such as Oregon and California. In some regions, the water measured 6 degrees Celsius (10 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than usual.

Around that same time, hundreds of tufted puffins turned up dead on a small island in the Bering Sea. They’d starved. In the town of Savoonga, Alaska, villagers caught a bowhead whale in open water. In previous years, that had been impossible because all of their local seawater had been covered by ice. In other parts of the gulf, people who usually fished through holes cut in the ice couldn’t — because the ice wasn’t there. And toxic algae bloomed along the Pacific coast.

Researchers suspect the Blob was linked to these events. They can’t say for certain. But they now know this Blob was no freak warmup. Two factors combined to make it possible, scientists reported in 2016. One was the natural variability, or ups and downs, in climate. The other was “climate change.” This was an unnatural perturbation brought on by human activities.

Importantly, without climate change, the heat that baked Alaska would not have become such a scorcher.

“We would not have had temperatures of that magnitude without climate change,” says John Walsh, who led the study. He’s a climate scientist at the International Arctic Research Center. The center is part of the University of Alaska in Fairbanks.

Researchers like Walsh want to know: How does human-driven — or anthropogenic (AN-throh-puh-GEN-ik) — climate change affect individual weather events, such as hurricanes, heat waves and rainstorms? These scientists are developing ways to recognize and measure those connections. Investigations that connect climate to extreme weather are called attribution (Aa-trih-BU-shun) studies. The Blob was one of the first weather events that scientists attributed to climate change caused by human activities.

A recent die-off in the Gulf of Alaska affected large numbers of seabirds, including horned puffins, the species seen here. The die-off coincided with “the Blob,” a local heat wave that wouldn't have happened without the influence of humans. Sarah Schoen/Alaska Science Center/USGS

But it’s not the only one. Walsh and other scientists analyze climate data with math and computer models to study weather events. They're finding ways to quantify, or measure, the impact of climate change. They’re like sports scientists studying a player who hit 10 home runs in a single game. Did he have a really good night? Or did he cheat in some way? And how can you know for sure?

The influence of climate change

“The climate is clearly changing,” says Kevin Trenberth. He’s a climate scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. “The atmosphere is changed,” he explains. “Carbon dioxide has increased, and it’s not slowing down.”

Climate and weather are related, but they’re not the same. Climate describes patterns of weather in an area over long periods of time. Weather refers to specific events that happen, such as hot days or thunderstorms. Heat waves, droughts, wildfires, hurricanes, tornadoes and floods are all examples of extreme weather events.

Rainfall from Hurricane Harvey, shown here stalled over southeastern Texas, was worse due to climate change, scientists showed. NOAA

For decades, scientists have predicted that climate change would worsen extreme weather events and make them more frequent. And signs have emerged that this has already begun.

“Climate change has made many types of extreme weather disasters significantly worse,” says Michael Wehner. “And it will continue to get worse.” Wehner is a climate scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California.

Connecting climate change to weather can be tricky. Still, it's not impossible. And in recent years, scientists have developed ways to do it with confidence. An important part of that process is asking the right questions, says Stephanie Herring. She’s a climate scientist at the National Centers for Environmental Information in Boulder, Colo.

People often want to know if anthropogenic climate change caused some event, she notes. But there’s no way to answer that question. Any weather event could happen by chance, after all. An event could be part of the planet’s natural ups and downs in weather.

It’s better, she says, to ask about the influence of climate change. An area’s climate lays the foundation for an extreme event. Scientists can then probe: Did climate change make the event worse?

Wehner points to Hurricane Harvey. It formed as a weak tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico in late August 2017. After turning very strong, very fast, it parked over southeastern Texas. Then it stayed there for three long days. During that time, it dumped more than 1.2 meters (3.9 feet) of water on the region. The city of Houston flooded. So did dozens of other coastal cities and towns. In some places, the combination of rain and storm surge from the sea added 3 meters (10 feet) of water. That’s about as deep as the diving area in a swimming pool.

To call Harvey unusual would be like calling the sun hot. It’s a terrific understatement. “Harvey was essentially unforeseen,” Wehner said at a scientific meeting in December 2017. Scientists expect to see storms like Harvey only about once every 3,000 years or so.

In the wake of Hurricane Harvey, three groups of scientists studied the storm. They were scouting fingerprints of climate change. And they found them, they reported in a trio of papers last December. Each one concluded that the storm was much worse than it would have been if climate change were not a factor.

Wehner led one of the studies. His group estimated that climate change increased total rainfall by at least 19 percent, but probably closer to 34 percent. Without climate change, flooding would likely have been far less severe. Another group reported that climate change tripled the risk that a Harvey-sized storm would occur. The third group estimated that the risk of a Harvey-sized storm had increased six-fold since 1990, thanks to climate change.

Hurricane Harvey killed an estimated 88 people. It also wreaked hundreds of billions of dollars in damage. Like the Blob, Harvey wouldn't have been so catastrophic without a combination of natural factors and human-induced climate change. “There was a significant human influence on the amount of precipitation that was produced by Hurricane Harvey,” Wehner concludes.

This home in Rockport, Texas, was destroyed by Hurricane Harvey. It was one of the most destructive hurricanes in history — and worsened by human-intensified climate change. Sgt. 1st Class Malcolm McClendon/Army National Guard

And Harvey was only the beginning. Spinning close on its tail came Irma, one of the strongest Atlantic storms on record. In early September, Irma hit land seven times, causing destruction on many Caribbean islands. It traveled north through Florida then pummeled Georgia and South Carolina. Along the way, it spun up 25 confirmed tornadoes. Then came Maria, which devastated the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. Those islands are still recovering.

Studies like Wehner’s don’t show that these hurricanes were caused by climate change. Hurricanes happen, climate change or not. They’re an expected part of nature. Climate change, however, is likely making them worse. “The storms are more intense,” says Trenberth. “The extremes are greater, and this matters.”

The climates that didn’t happen

The first study to connect extreme weather to some type of human influence was published in 2004. Peter Stott led it. He works at the Met Office. That’s the United Kingdom’s government weather office, in Exeter. A heat wave had hit Europe a year earlier. It caused the hottest summer in at least 600 years! Tens of thousands of people died in France, Germany, Italy and other countries. Stott knew it was impossible to ask if human activity was the sole culprit. But he found a way to measure whether it had made the heat wave worse.

Stott and his colleagues approached the problem in a way that many scientists still use. They collected the temperature records from across Europe for the time of the heat wave. Then, they compared those data to their best estimate of what might have happened if climate change had not been involved.

The scientists were aided by a computer program called a model. This computer model uses weather data to simulate the climate. Then, the model can make predictions about what kind of weather might be expected.

A simulation imitates real life. It describes a situation that could have happened but didn't. If there were a simulation of your own life, you could see what might have happened if you hadn’t — or had — finished your homework. Or if you’d chosen to go to the park or band practice after school yesterday. Or how your life would be different if you’d moved to another state.

A personal simulation is impossible. (That’s probably a good thing. It would raise the risk of FOMO.) But climate simulations aren’t. Stott used a computer model that produced four simulations of how the climate could have changed over time due to natural ups and downs in weather. Stott’s simulation started plotting these changes going back as far as 1851. That year is near the beginning of the time when people started burning fossil fuels to produce energy. Burning fossil fuels releases greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These gases trap heat close to the planet’s surface, causing temperatures to rise.

Without human activity factored in, Stott's simulations of climate did not produce extreme heat waves like the one in 2003. He also ran simulations of the climate, starting in 1851, which did include greenhouse gases from human activity. Those simulations led to big heat waves. Then the researchers compared those simulations to what actually happened. With this approach, says Stott, “we can calculate how our risk has changed.”

The team concluded that human activity hadn't just increased the probability of such an extreme heat wave. It doubled it!

Many attribution studies take the same approach as Stott's did. They compare simulated climates to real-world data. (That’s how Walsh studied the Blob.) And these types of studies have improved since 2004. Scientists have developed better climate models, for instance, and more of them. Stott only used models of the atmosphere. In fact, some modern computer models include air, water and land. One recent study found the influence of climate change in seasonal cycles, measured in the atmosphere. More data are collected now, and fast computers can quickly analyze those data. More datasets also are available now, in part because many scientists upload their data to the internet to share with others.

Researchers have even developed new ways to ask questions about attribution. Some scientists use what’s called a “storyline” approach. Instead of looking at past climates that didn’t happen, they look for climate change in specific events. For example, Trenberth and his colleagues, in Boulder, traced how extra energy from warmer oceans likely boosted Harvey's extreme rainfall. They simulated what Harvey would have been like without the influence of climate change. And it was much less wet.

The beginning of the study

“There is no one best way to do attribution,” says Herring. “The question isn’t, can you do it? The question,” she says,” is how do you come up with the best answer?” It’s important for scientists to run experiments in such a way that other scientists will have confidence in its result.

Up and down the west coast of the United States, sea star wasting disease began wiping out large numbers of the creatures. The Blob didn’t cause the disease, but may have exaggerated its impact, research at UC Santa Cruz finds. Melissa Miner

One place to find attribution studies is in a journal called the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, or BAMS. Each year, the journal publishes a special issue that highlights attribution research. In total, those special issues have published 131 attribution studies. Not every study finds the fingerprints of climate change. Indeed, of those 131 studies, Herring notes that about one-third found no impact from climate change on the weather extremes investigated. Those events would likely have happened anyway, with or without human activity. The other two-thirds, though, had all been affected by humanity’s influence on climate.

Most attribution studies measure how much climate change worsened an event. Walsh’s study was different, though. The Blob wasn’t just worsened by climate change. It wouldn’t have happened without it, according to his models.

Walsh’s study appeared in the January 2018 issue of BAMS. Two other studies in that issue identified other events that needed climate change to happen. In one, meteorologists from Japan reported that a 2016 heat wave in Asia wouldn’t have happened without climate change.

In the other, U.S. researchers analyzed temperature data across the world in 2016, the hottest year on record. On average, temperatures hit 1.2 degrees C (2.2 degrees F) above average.

Tom Knutson led that study. He’s a meteorologist at the U.S. Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton, N.J. His group ran simulations using seven computer models. They even ran combinations of models. No matter how the researchers ran the simulations, though, there was no way to pin the high heat on nature alone. They reported that the record-setting warmth was possible only because of “human-caused warming.”

Knutson is careful to point out one limitation of his study. It's a limitation of all model-based studies. “This, of course, is a model-based estimate, and we don’t want to confuse it with the truth,” he says. Scientists have confidence that their models accurately represent real scenarios. But because they are scenarios, and not reality, there’s room for error.

But in science, scientists are always trying to get more precise in their measurements and analyses. And when all the models point to the same conclusion, scientists gain confidence. In the case of the global heat record, “it is our best record,” Knutson says. “And we’d have to be off by a pretty large factor” to be in error.

Scientists who work on attribution studies say this research serves an important role. “Climate” is kind of a confusing idea. Because it measures weather over long periods of time, it’s hard to see day-to-day. But people do know what it’s like to hunker down during a hurricane and hope that their homes won’t flood. They can see the sea level rising in their coastal towns. They know how bad a heat wave can be.

Herring says the field is still growing. She is seeing researchers from other fields get interested in attribution science. They include marine biologists, public health researchers and people who work for insurance companies. They’re working with climate experts to understand not only how climate changes the weather, but how it changes life itself.

Attribution science connects devastating events to climate change. “This is where the research has a real value, I think,” says Stott. It makes climate change personal.

====== 5 ========

Half a degree can make a world of difference

The average temperature of the planet has been rising since the 1700s and its Industrial Revolution. Three years ago, in 2015, 195 nations signed onto what is known as the Paris Accord. In it, they agreed to curb greenhouse gas emissions to limit that warming by 2100. The goal is not to let it exceed 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) over preindustrial times. But a new report says there may be big benefits to setting an even lower target.

If Earth warms by just 1.5 degrees C (2.7 degrees F), we would see fewer life-threatening extremes in heat, drought and precipitation. There also would be less sea level rise and fewer species would go extinct.

The new report comes from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or IPCC. A summary of its full report came out October 8. It followed a weeklong meeting of scientists and policy makers in Incheon, South Korea. “This will be one of the most important meetings in the IPCC’s history,” said Hoesung Lee in his opening address. He spoke on October 1. He is a climate economist who works at Korea University in South Korea. He’s also the current IPCC chair.

For their report, scientists sifted through more than 6,000 papers. Those papers probed the impact of a global warming of 1.5 degrees. Sometimes the scientists even worked through the night, says Natalie Mahowald. She’s a climate scientist at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y. She’s also one of the report’s coauthors. The long hours were worth it. The report’s message is compelling and urgent, she says. “Such a small change in temperature will have big impacts on people.”

Curbs called for in the Paris Accord were designed to keep global warming to “well below” 2 degrees by 2100. Getting all the delegates to agree on that was hard. But many scientists have warned that this limit isn’t good enough. It won’t halt major environmental changes. And it could affect everything from sea level rise and water scarcity to habitat loss.

During the Paris talks, more than 100 nations called for a lower target — 1.5 degrees Celsius. Those nations included many of the countries at greatest risk from climate change. Examples are the Indian Ocean island nation of the Maldives and drought-stricken Angola in Africa.

Until very recently, scientists knew relatively little about how the risks from a 1.5-degree warming would differ from those due to a warming of 2 degrees. (Lee noted this in his October 1 address.) So the nations invited the IPCC to prepare a report to study that. Creating that report was a part of the decision to adopt the Paris Accord.

Growing forests soak up lots of carbon dioxide and store the carbon in their trunks and roots. That's why preserving forests and creating new ones is one natural way to counter the rise in greenhouse gases. 4u4me/iStockphoto

1.5 degrees versus 2

The two warming targets would lead to very different changes. They are outlined in the new report. By reducing the warming to 1.5 degrees, people would experience fewer extremes in heat, rain and drought. A half a degree less warming also would shave an average of about 0.1 meter (4 inches) from sea-level rise by 2100. That would expose 10 million fewer people to related risks. These include flooding, infrastructure damage and saltwater breakthrough into freshwater resources.

There are great ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland. Somewhere between 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees, these ice sheets could become very unstable. Their melting would further increase the potential for sea level rise. The Arctic Ocean is projected to be ice-free during the summer only once per century with just a 1.5-degree warming. That would increase to once a decade under the 2-degree scenario.

There also would be benefits for plants and animals with a lower rise in temperature, the report notes. Less habitat would be lost for many species compared with 2 degrees of warming. Other climate risks to species also would be milder. Among those risks: forest fires and the spread of invasive species.

Many of the data analyzed in the report come from scientific papers published only in the past two years. They weren’t available when the Paris Accord was signed. The London-based website Carbon Brief published an interactive infographic on October 4. It summarizes the results of 70 such 1.5-degree studies. They show the impacts of warming targets on everything from sea level and heatwaves to hurricanes.

Not an easy path

Despite building a case for a lower-temperature target, the trick will be how to get there. In 2017, the Paris Accord faced a major setback. That’s when President Donald Trump announced that the United States would pull out of the agreement. The United States is a major source of the greenhouse gases that drive warming. That makes hopes for achieving a far more stringent target especially daunting.

Scientists have examined various possible paths to limit the environmental harm due to warming. But almost all such paths share one thing in common, says Zeke Hausfather. He’s a climate scientist with Carbon Brief. They overshoot the 1.5-degree limit somewhere around the year 2050. Later, he says, they bring temps “back down.”

To overshoot the mark by only a small amount, or not at all, requires cutting emissions of greenhouse gases by a lot. That pollution would have to drop by about 45 percent compared to emissions in 2010. And that has to be done fast — in 11 years, or by 2030.

The IPCC wants nations of the world to reach “net zero” emissions of greenhouse gases by around 2050. To do that, technologies must be in place that pull greenhouse gases out of waste streams or the atmosphere at rates equal to what goes in. The result: The atmosphere receives no increase in warming gases. Even better would be to remove more greenhouse gases than are entering the atmosphere. Then overall levels of warming could fall.

If the overall limit on warming is just “below 2 degrees Celsius,” emissions by 2030 would need to decline less than half as much as for the 1.5 degree limit. And they could reach net zero up to 25 years later — by about 2075.

If such early, deep cuts don't happen, “negative emissions” will be necessary. Negative emissions are, essentially, a hoped-for reduction in emissions. And they might bring temperatures back down after overshooting the mark mid-century. But to remove enough CO 2 from the atmosphere to reverse the greenhouse effect would require new technologies.

Those might include carbon capture and storage. Some such so-called "hacks" exist. Today, however, these technologies are too costly to be put in place widely. And reversing the effects of greenhouse warming is not easy. “By and large,” Hausfather says, there’s a rather straight relationship between warming and growing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. “But once you start sucking [carbon dioxide] out of the atmosphere, that linear relationship breaks.” The fall in emissions must be greater than the growth in pollution had been that led to those elevated temps in the first place.

It’s uncertain how — or if — society will be able to use the new report's findings to reshape the climate accords. During the 2015 Paris talks, a proposed 1.5-degree target was met with strong resistance from big polluter nations, particularly China. And President Trump’s administration has stated that the deep cuts needed in greenhouse-gas emissions are too costly and not yet ready to implement.

That is one reason the 1.5-degree goal may seem daunting. But this IPCC report — and the two years of intense research that led up to it — has also forced scientists to review some ideas about what’s possible, says Kaisa Kosonen. She works in Helsinki, Finland, as a climate policy adviser for Greenpeace International. She traveled to South Korea for the IPCC meeting. Investing in things such as better energy efficiency may one day lead to “results you didn’t know even existed,” she says. “I’ve been inspired by how much optimism there still is among scientists.”

Indeed, one of the key messages from the report is that holding warming to 1.5 degrees “is not impossible,” Mahowald says. “But it will require really ambitious efforts. And the sooner the better. We have to start cutting emissions now,” she says. “We have to be very ambitious on sustainable energy and sustainable agriculture.” What’s more, she notes, making this happen will require people to change their behaviors, too. These range from conserving energy to eating different foods.

But people also would face huge adjustments in a world that’s 2 degrees warmer, or even higher, she warns. So despite the challenges, Mahowald points out, “it still might be easier to reach 1.5 than to adapt to those higher temperatures.”

Correction: This article has been edited to note that the Maldives are in the Indian Ocean, not the Pacific.

====== 6 ========

Why can’t bugs be grub?

One Friday morning in May, 11-year-old Sarah Nihan went to school and did something she had never done before. She pulled a dry-roasted cricket out of a bowl and carefully lifted it to her mouth. “At first I was a little iffy,” Sarah admits. “I made the mistake of looking it in the eyes.”

At the time, Sarah was a fifth grader at Ellis School in Fremont, N.H. Before her language-arts class held its bug buffet, the students had learned all about the benefits of eating insects. Packed with protein and vitamins, insects are quite nutritious. And raising them takes far less land and water than raising traditional livestock, such as cattle. So as a food source, insects are better for the planet.

Fifth and sixth graders in New Hampshire held a classroom Bug Buffet last spring. Anyone who couldn’t stomach these dry-roasted insects (or insect-containing snacks such as cricket chips or cricket pancakes) could opt to instead eat gummy worms. Robin Lee

The kids wrote essays on the environmental and health benefits of eating bugs, or entomophagy (En-tuh-MAH-fuh-jee). They read a book about a student who ate a stink bug as defense against a bully. They watched videos of Asian people relishing tarantula burgers. Yet Sarah still had to brace herself and count to three before popping that bacon-and-cheese-flavored cricket into her mouth. “I told myself that I’m not going to lose to a bug,” she says. But after chewing a few seconds, she cringed.

She’s not alone. To most North Americans and Europeans, the thought of eating insects triggers the same reaction: Ewwww.

This isn’t how people react to all foods they dislike. For example, people who dislike asparagus usually don’t say it’s disgusting. “They just say it tastes bad,” points out Paul Rozin. “But they’d say goat intestine is disgusting.” We seem to save our revulsion for certain animal products.

Rozin is a psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He’s spent decades studying how some foods have become taboo. He and other researchers are trying to learn where this disgust comes from — and whether it can be unlearned.



Eating your first bug isn’t always easy, as participants in the Bug Buffet learned.

Curriculum with a Cause/Facebook

Geography matters

Insects aren’t gross to everyone. Indeed, some two billion people around the world savor them on a regular basis.

Most Westerners — people who live in North America and Western Europe — don’t eat insects. But the Western diet includes a number of foods that can seem just as gross when you stop to think about them. Cheeses are made with mold and bacteria. Escargot, a dish eaten in France and other countries, consists of cooked snails. Shrimp and lobsters look kind of like giant bugs. (In fact, they’re arthropods, the same group of animals that includes insects and spiders.)

So why do Westerners shun ants, grasshoppers and other creepy-crawlies? That question piqued the interest of Julie Lesnik. She’s an anthropologist at Wayne State University in Detroit, Mich. There, she studies how the human diet has evolved.

Lesnik has always been a picky eater. She never intended to study edible insects, let alone eat them. But while doing research in South Africa, she found evidence that primate ancestors of early humans used bone tools to dig into termite mounds. That suggested ancient humans ate insects. So when and why did Westerners quit eating bugs?

Some researchers think hunting for insects became less popular as ancient people found easier food sources in farming. If the land could support crops and cattle, why go after tiny scattered bugs with fewer calories?

Even though many North Americans find the idea of eating bugs gross, much of the world enjoys snacking on insects. But bugs are far from the only animals many diners shun. Here, fried scorpions are sold as a street snack in Beijing, China. weiXx/istockphoto

Others explain the puzzle by looking at climate. Tropical countries get plenty of sun. That produces thicker vegetation, bigger insects and more kinds of them. People have better odds of finding an insect they like when they have lots to choose from year-round, Lesnik says. But farther north, where the seasons change, insects aren’t available during winter months.

Both ideas make sense. The earliest Europeans lived 18,000 to 22,000 years ago. That was during a period called the Last Glacial Maximum. Ice covered much of North America and northern Europe. To survive, people had to hunt deer and other large game. There wouldn’t have been many big, juicy bugs around. Could it be that insect-eating habits depend on where people live?

To test her idea, Lesnik gathered data on various factors that might affect whether cultures eat insects.

One such factor was agriculture. It’s likely that ancient hunter-gatherers chowed on insects. But people who raise animals and grow crops probably came to view insects as pests. That could make bugs less appealing.

Yet when Lesnik looked at a current map of insect-eating countries, she saw that agriculture was common in many of them. She also gathered data on the share of land in each country that’s good for farming. If agriculture were a key factor in insect eating, she’d expect people in farmable regions to eat fewer bugs. But that wasn’t the case.

She considered other explanations. For example, maybe the people who eat insects live in countries that are poor. Or maybe they don’t have enough farmed food to go around. If those theories were right, Lesnik would expect more insect eaters to be found in countries with crowded conditions or in low-income nations. Experts describe that last group as having a low gross domestic product, or GDP. (GDP is a way to measure the health and wealth of a nation’s economy.) However, Lesnik found no link between insect-eating and either GDP or population density. So insects aren’t just a fallback food for desperate people. Lesnik published her analysis last year in the American Journal of Human Biology.

Researchers have found that latitude — how far north or south of the equator you are — is the biggest predictor of who eats insects. People in warmer regions eat more of them. Yde Jongema

As it turns out, “Where you are in the world is the number one predictor of who’s going to be eating insects,” Lesnik says. Latitude is how far north or south you are from the equator. And in eight out of every 10 people, latitude alone predicts the likelihood that they'll eat insects. Warmer parts of the world, Lesnik says, just have more bug-eating.

On the practical side, geography explains why early Westerners didn’t eat insects. But it doesn’t explain the emotional part — the disgust. And that disgust has not only persisted in Western culture but also crossed borders.

Yuck factor

Lesnik thinks Westerners’ “yuck” reaction to bugs came with travel.

As early Europeans began traveling farther, they met other cultures. In 1493, a member of Christopher Columbus’ expedition to the Caribbean wrote about what he saw: “They eat all the snakes, the lizards, and spiders, and worms, that they find upon the ground; so that, to my fancy, their bestiality is greater than that of any beast upon the face of the earth.” In other words, he was comparing the people in the New World to animals.

Writings like this show that Europeans “considered the people they encountered beastlike because they ate insects,” Lesnik says. As Westerners colonized other cultures, they needed to make themselves feel superior to those cultures, she says. She suspects that this need strengthened Western disgust toward eating insects.

Disgust also can be learned by various messages shared within a culture, says Lesnik. We aren’t necessarily born thinking that insects are gross. “If a kid tries to put a bug in his mouth, many parents discourage that behavior and tell the kid it’s icky,” she observes.

Today, Europeans and North Americans aren’t the only ones who see eating insects as gross. The disgust is spreading to people in low-income nations who had been used to eating insects.

Arnold van Huis is a tropical entomologist at Wageningen University in the Netherlands. He noticed this shift in attitude while conducting a grasshopper study in the West African country of Niger. After adopting a Western lifestyle, “The people say, ‘We have a certain standard of living now, and we don’t eat insects anymore,’” van Huis reports. “They go for the hamburger instead of the nice grasshoppers.”

Changing minds

Can disgust be unlearned? For some people, education does the trick.

Six years ago, Robert Nathan Allen, a recent college graduate, was working as a bartender in Austin, Texas. At some point, his mom shared a video about edible insects. “She sent it as a joke — said it seemed like something wacky my dad and I would try,” Allen recalls. The video explained how bugs are good for us and good for the Earth, just as Sarah and her classmates had learned in school. “I thought this was just incredible,” Allen says.

People in the United States can buy buggy snacks including cricket-flour chips, cricket-protein bars and sour-cream-and-onion “Crick-ettes.” Robin Lee

He looked around for insect foods. He found the occasional bag of candied ants or chocolate-covered grasshoppers for sale. But there wasn’t much else available in the United States.

He started calling insect researchers on the phone. “I’ve got a bar in Austin and I want to serve bugs,” he would say. “What should I do?” Some people hung up. Others laughed him off the phone. But finally a professor confided that he cooks up a batch of bugs and brings them to school each year on the last day of class. “Everyone eats them. We all have a blast,” he said. “But please don’t tell anybody,” he implored of Allen, “because I don’t want the administration to make me stop.”

That phone call didn’t result in any new insect foods or recipes for Allen’s bar. But it did something bigger: It spurred Allen to action. “This professor was worried he’d be barred from serving a food that’s eaten by billions simply because it was stigmatized in our Western food culture,” Allen says. That made him realize there was “the need to educate the public and address the cultural taboo.”

Allen got in touch with researchers and business people who shared his goals. He discovered other campuses that host public insect-tasting events. Each year, some 30,000 people attend Purdue University’s Bug Bowl . And in February, Montana State University held its 30th annual Bug Buffet . This weeklong event features cook-off competitions, lectures and plenty of insect treats to sample.

In 2013, Allen founded an Austin nonprofit called Little Herds. The organization teaches the public about the benefits of edible insects, sometimes known as “mini livestock.”

Early on, the group set up tasting booths at local farmers’ markets. They gave talks at schools. They advertised at museums. Right away they realized their prime audience: children. Most parents wouldn’t dare reach for a roasted cricket before first sampling a nicer-looking food, such as a cookie made with cricket flour. But “little kids would just walk up and start chowing down on the crickets,” Allen says.

Fear of missing out — on bugs

Kids may be a somewhat easy sell when it comes to insects. That’s why some researchers have focused on adults. They’ve tried to figure out what traits make people likely to try insects. For a 2015 study, Rozin at the University of Pennsylvania and his colleagues gave 399 people from the United States or India an online survey about food. Participants saw pictures of cookies. Or breads baked with mealworm flour. And tacos or crepes containing whole grasshoppers. Then they asked the participants how willing they would be to sample those foods.

These researchers also asked the participants about their religion and politics. And they asked if participants agreed with statements such as: “eating bugs is disgusting,” “bugs are nutritious,” or “eating bugs puts you at risk for disease.” People also reported how willing they were to try new foods, how sensitive they were to disgust and how much they like risk and spontaneity.

Disgust was the most common reason people refuse to eat bugs, this study found. People who were most likely to try eating insects were those who weren’t easily grossed out, who didn’t mind unfamiliar foods and who liked new experiences (and telling others about them). Rozin’s team reported its findings, last year, in the Journal of Insects as Food and Feed.

Another team of researchers surveyed 368 meat eaters in Flanders, Belgium. According to their analysis, Westerners are most willing to replace meat with bugs if they’re young, male, open to new foods, environmentally conscious and already trying to eat less meat. Those 2014 findings were published in Food Quality and Preference.

Potential insect eaters may share another key trait: fear of missing out, often known as FOMO. In 2015, behavioral economists carried out a study to learn what types of messages might nudge people to try insects. At a shopping mall in England, the team lured shoppers to a table of dry-roasted crickets by posting three different signs. One described the health benefits of eating insects. A second tried to make eating insects seem normal. It showed a photo of family members at a restaurant and enjoying crickets. The third sign tapped into FOMO by showing a near-empty plate of roasted bugs with the plea, “Don’t miss your chance to try.”

The sign about health benefits did OK at attracting shoppers to the bug-foods table. The sign with the family photo did better. But the FOMO poster worked best.

It’s a marketer’s version of peer pressure. That tactic also seemed effective in the New Hampshire classroom. At the bug buffet, Sarah’s classmate Ruby Drake initially steered clear of insect foods. “I was just going to have the gummy worms,” she says. But after a friend begged her to try “one of the real bugs,” Drake picked up a roasted cricket.

The taste test ended quickly. “It crumbled the minute I touched it, and that grossed me out,” Drake says. “I spit it out.”

But that crunchy critter wasn’t a deal breaker. Drake also tried cricket-flour chips. “Those were pretty good,” she says. “I would put them in my lunch box.”

As for the dry-roasted crickets, Nihan says she would eat them again. However, she adds, “I’d probably brush my teeth afterward because the legs can get stuck in your teeth.”

====== 7 ========

Renewable energy might be able to green a desert

Wind turbines and solar panels that create electricity are examples of environmentally friendly — or “green” — technology. A new study finds that these forms of renewable energy might be green in another sense, too. Large collections of those turbines or so-called farms of solar panels appear capable of bringing rains to the desert. And that would allow more plants to grow.

Eugenia Kalnay is an expert on weather and climate. She works at the University of Maryland in College Park. She also has worked for the National Weather Service and NASA. In each place, she has used computers to model weather and climate. Such models help scientists understand how temperatures and rain might change over time. Day-to-day changes are known as weather. Longer-term patterns, such as seasonal trends that persist for years, describe a region’s climate.

Wind turbines and solar panels can change how air moves. As winds move through the spinning blades of a turbine, some of their power is converted to electricity. This weakens those winds. Turbines may also change the path of the winds, directing some share of them around the outside of the wind farm.

Both technologies also can affect nearby temperatures. Solar panels can raise the adjacent temperature by 3 to 4 degrees Celsius (5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit). Turbines also boost temperatures, largely by keeping the nights warmer. Warm air rises. If it rises high enough, and holds much water vapor, it could eventually condense into clouds that produce rain.

In these ways, wind and solar farms could affect climate. But would the changes be large enough to matter? That’s what Kalnay and others wanted to know. Their new computer models show that a mix of these energy technologies might boost rainfall and eventually transform deserts into plant-rich areas.

Putting it to the test

Kalnay teamed up with Safa Motesharrei, a systems scientist at Maryland. Systems scientists study how complex systems, such as climate, function. The Maryland pair recruited Yan Li, a geoscientist at Beijing Normal University in China, to join them. These three brought in other scientists from Maryland, Italy and China to join in their study. Building large wind or solar farms just to study their question was not an option. It would be too costly. It might also create unexpected climate issues. So the team instead used computer models to probe how wind turbines and solar farms might alter a region’s climate.

Weather and climate models work from data collected over decades. They include data on the weather that developed when certain conditions were in place. These conditions included temperature and rains or snowfall. They also included the air pressure, winds, sunlight and the movement of heat into and out of the ground and large bodies of water.

For their new study, the researchers developed a model of North Africa’s Sahara Desert. The world’s largest desert, the Sahara supports little life. Although few people live here, many reside in the areas around it. So putting wind and solar farms in this area could help meet their electricity needs.

The Sahara is the world’s largest desert. Immediately south of its border is a not-quite-so-dry region known as the Sahel. Rainer Lesniewski/iStockphoto

The southern edge of the desert is an area called the Sahel. In this transition zone, the desert becomes a grassy savanna dotted with trees. There isn’t much rainfall in the Sahel, and climate change has reduced those rains in recent years. Because growing crops helps to feed the local people, rains are important here.

The team ran its model several times. In one run, it assumed that people would erect wind farms only. Another run assumed people would install just solar farms. A third assumed people would build both. All three of these scenarios would affect the desert’s weather — but differently, the model showed.

Wind farms raised the temperature by an average of 2.16 degrees Celsius (3.89 degrees Fahrenheit). Most of that increase occurred at night, when the land cooled down less than normal. Wind turbines also doubled the Sahara’s rainfall, which doubled in the Sahara. But doubling a small number still ends up being a small effect. The average daily rain increased by only 0.25 millimeter (0.01 inch). The Sahel would see a slightly bigger daily increase, the model projected — 1.12 millimeters (0.04 inch) more rain.

Solar farms would increase temperatures less, by 1.12 degrees Celsius (2.02 degrees Fahrenheit), the models showed. And that change occurred mainly during the day. They’d also increase average rain per day, but less than the wind farms would. The increase could add up to an extra 47.5 millimeters (1.9 inches) per year in the desert and by 208 millimeters (8.2 inches) in the Sahel.

In the Sahel, like this village in Mali, the land is dry but not too dry to prevent some plant growth. This area outside of the nearby Sahara is also where many people live. lonelytravel/iStockphoto

Installing a mix of solar farms and wind turbines brought about a bigger change — not in temperature but in rainfall. In the Sahara, having both wind and solar farms more than doubled the amount of rain that fell, up to 215.4 millimeters (8.5 inches) per day. The nearby Sahel would see an even more dramatic boost — up to 500 millimeters (20 inches) of additional rain each year.

The models predicted that the average rainfall would increase over time, as more plants grew. Plants move water from the ground to the air. The process they use has a long name: evapotranspiration (Ee-VAP-oh-tran-spur-AY-shun). Warmer air can carry more water. So as this air rises, it can ferry more water up to become clouds. Those clouds can release rain, slaking the thirst of plants below. Over time, this process repeats itself over and over. This so-called positive feedback can greatly boost rains. That’s especially true in the Sahel, the models showed, where people rely on that water.

Eventually, the models showed, rainfall would level off at some new, higher amount. That’s because plants would now be a consistent part of the landscape and the climate more stable.

Kalnay and her colleagues described this trend September 7 in Science.

Such rainfall changes could lead to better agriculture, says Motesharrei. More rain also would help wild plants grow, he adds, giving livestock more to graze on.

“We believe that the countries in the Sahara and nearby Sahel region should seriously consider investing in wind and solar power,” say Motesharrei and Li. This would produce large amounts of clean, renewable electricity, they argue. As an added benefit, it would bring rain to a region that has been getting drier.

Not a simple solution

“The impact of solar [farms] on climate and ecosystems is complex,” notes Ibrahima Diédhiou. He’s an ecologist in West Africa at the Université de Thiès in Senegal. Solar farms could have boost rains in the Sahel, he says. But they also might cut how much carbon dioxide (a greenhouse gas) is taken up by crops, pastures and forests. So the overall impact on climate change could be mixed, he says.

Unintended effects might go beyond climate issues, warns Rebecca Hernandez. She is an ecologist at the University of California, Davis who specializes in dry landscapes, such as deserts. Wind turbines and solar farms often disturb ecosystems in ways that lets invasive plant species take over, she says. As the edge out native plants, animals that depend on those native plants could also suffer.

People clearly need to think carefully about how and where they site renewable energy farms, Hernandez says. Putting wind and solar farms in places where people have already built cities and towns would be particularly helpful, she argues. Their environment has already been disrupted, she notes, so adding the energy systems might not cause all that much additional harm. What’s more, these are where people use the most energy.

====== 8 ========

People may be literally led by their noses

Our sense of smell and sense of navigation are linked in our brains, a new study suggests. If true, we may truly be led by our noses.

Louisa Dahmani is a neuroscientist — someone who studies the brain. She works for Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass. Her team asked 57 young people to navigate through a virtual town on a computer screen. Afterward, each person was tested on how to get from one spot to another.

The researchers also tested each person’s smelling abilities. Participants sniffed one of 40 fragrant felt-tip pens. Then they had to match that smell to one of four words shown on a screen. These two tasks might have seemed unrelated. But the team found that the best smellers were also the best navigators.



Scientists linked both skills to certain spots in the brain. The left orbitofrontal (OR-bit-oh-FRUNT-ul) cortex and the right hippocampus (Hip-oh-KAMP-us) were both bigger in the better smellers and better navigators. The orbitofrontal cortex has been tied to smelling. The hippocampus is known to be involved in both our sense of smell and in navigation.

The researchers separately studied nine people who had damaged orbitofrontal cortices (KOR-tih-sees). Those people had more trouble with navigation and with identifying smells, the team found. The researchers shared their findings October 16 in Nature Communications. Dahmani did the work while at McGill University. That’s in Montreal, Canada.



A sense of smell may have evolved to help people find their way around. This idea is called the olfactory (Oal-FAK-tor-ee) spatial hypothesis. More specific aspects of smell, such as how good people are at detecting faint whiffs, might also be tied to navigation, the researchers suggest.

====== 9 ========

Fossils hint ancient humans passed through a green Arabia

(for more about Power Words, click here)

carbon The chemical element having the atomic number 6. It is the physical basis of all life on Earth. Carbon exists freely as graphite and diamond. It is an important part of coal, limestone and petroleum, and is capable of self-bonding, chemically, to form an enormous number of chemically, biologically and commercially important molecules.

chemical A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H 2 O. Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are the result of various reactions between different compounds.

climate The weather conditions that typically exist in one area, in general, or over a long period.

colleague Someone who works with another; a co-worker or team member.

ecology A branch of biology that deals with the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical surroundings. A scientist who works in this field is called an ecologist.

environment The sum of all of the things that exist around some organism or the process and the condition those things create. Environment may refer to the weather and ecosystem in which some animal lives, or, perhaps, the temperature and humidity (or even the placement of things in the vicinity of an item of interest).

evolution (v. to evolve) A process by which species undergo changes over time, usually through genetic variation and natural selection. These changes usually result in a new type of organism better suited for its environment than the earlier type. The newer type is not necessarily more “advanced,” just better adapted to the particular conditions in which it developed. Or the term can refer to changes that occur as some natural progression within the non-living world (such as computer chips evolving to smaller devices which operate at an ever faster speed).

fossil Any preserved remains or traces of ancient life. There are many different types of fossils: The bones and other body parts of dinosaurs are called “body fossils.” Things like footprints are called “trace fossils.” Even specimens of dinosaur poop are fossils. The process of forming fossils is called fossilization.

genus (plural: genera) A group of closely related species. For example, the genus Canis — which is Latin for “dog” — includes all domestic breeds of dog and their closest wild relatives, including wolves, coyotes, jackals and dingoes.

Homo A genus of species that includes modern humans (Homo sapiens). All had large brains and used tools. This genus is believed to have first evolved in Africa and over time evolved and radiated throughout the rest of the world.

migration (v. migrate) Movement from one region or habitat to another, especially regularly (and according to the seasons) or to cope with some driving force (such as climate or war). An individual that makes this move is known as a migrant.

oxygen A gas that makes up about 21 percent of Earth's atmosphere. All animals and many microorganisms need oxygen to fuel their growth (and metabolism).

peninsula A parcel of land that is that is attached to the mainland but surrounded by water on three sides.

savanna A grassland sometimes also populated with trees. Most are fairly dry for part or much of the year.

species A group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce.

====== 10 ========

A Change in Leaf Color

Every autumn, traffic creeps along New England's roads as visitors look everywhere but at the road. These tourists flock to the region as soon as leaves begin to change color from a summery green to spectacular shades of red, orange, yellow, and purple.

"Being in the Northeast during autumn is just about as good as it gets in this country," says David Lee. He's a botanist at Florida International University in Miami.

Lee studies leaf color, so he's biased. But plenty of other people share his admiration. Areas of the United States with especially colorful fall displays attract thousands of leaf peepers.

Even as they "ooh" and "aah," few people know what makes many plants blush in the autumn. Research has shown that leaves change color when their food-making processes shut off. The chemical chlorophyll, which gives leaves their green color, breaks down. This allows other leaf pigments—yellow and orange—to become visible.

No one knows exactly how global warming will alter forests and affect fall colors. J. Miller

But "there's still a lot we don't know about this," Lee says.

It isn't clear, for example, why different species of plants turn different colors. Or why some trees become redder than others, even when they're standing right next to each other. And no one knows exactly how global warming will alter forests and affect leaf-peeping season.

Food factory

In summer, when a plant is green, its leaves contain the pigment chlorophyll, which absorbs all colors of sunlight except green. We see the reflected green light.

The plant uses the energy it absorbs from the sun to turn carbon dioxide and water into sugars (food) and oxygen (waste). The process is called photosynthesis.

When chlorophyll breaks down, yellow pigments in leaves become visible. I. Peterson

As days get shorter and colder in the autumn, chlorophyll molecules break down. Leaves quickly lose their green color. Some leaves begin to look yellow or orange because they still contain pigments called carotenoids. One such pigment, carotene, gives carrots their bright-orange color.

But red is special. This brilliant color appears only because the leaves of some plants, including maples, actually produce new pigments, called anthocyanins.

That's a strange thing for a plant to do without a reason, says Bill Hoch of the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Why? Because it takes a lot of energy to make anthocyanins.

Why red?

To figure out the purpose of the red pigment, Hoch and his coworkers bred mutant plants that can't make anthocyanins and compared them with plants that do make anthocyanins. They found that plants that can make red pigments continue to absorb nutrients from their leaves long after the mutant plants have stopped.

Red leaves get their color from a pigment called anthocyanin. I. Peterson

This study and others suggest that anthocyanins work like a sunscreen. When chlorophyll breaks down, a plant's leaves become vulnerable to the sun's harsh rays. By turning red, plants protect themselves from sun damage. They can continue to take nutrients out of their dying leaves. These reserves help the plants stay healthy through the winter.

The more anthocyanins a plant produces, the redder its leaves become. This explains why colors vary from year to year, and even from tree to tree. Stressful conditions, such as drought and disease, often make a season redder.

Now, Hoch is breeding plants for a new set of experiments. He wants to find out whether turning red helps plants survive cold weather.

"There's a clear correlation between environments that get colder in the fall and the amount of red produced," he says. "Red maples turn bright red in Wisconsin. In Florida, they don't turn nearly as bright."

More protection

Elsewhere, scientists are looking at anthocyanins in other ways. A recent study in Greece, for instance, found that as leaves grow redder, insects eat them less. On the basis of this observation, some scientists argue that red pigments defend a plant against bugs.

Leaves may turn red in the autumn to protect themselves from the sun's ultraviolet rays. J. Miller

Hoch rejects that theory, but Lee thinks that it might make sense. He points out that red leaves contain less nitrogen than green ones do. "It may actually be that insects avoid red leaves because they're less nutritious," Lee says.

However, "it's pretty confusing at this point," Lee admits. "People debate back and forth."

To settle the debate, scientists will need to look at more species under more conditions, Lee says. So, he's now researching leafy plants rather than trees. He's especially interested in tropical plants, whose leaves turn red when they're young rather than old.

You can do your own leafy experiments. Observe the trees in your neighborhood and keep track of weather conditions. When autumn begins, write down when the leaves change, which species change first, and how rich the colors are. You can even see anthocyanins under a simple microscope. After several years, you might start to notice some patterns.

Going Deeper:

Additional Information

Questions about the Article

Word Find: Leaf Color

====== 11 ========

A teen turns an autumn chore into a science project

SAN JOSE, Calif. — It’s fall in the Northern Hemisphere, and that means some trees are losing their leaves. Many people might see all that yard waste as a chore to be cleaned up. But Bryant Liu, 13, looked at his leaf-blanketed lawn and saw a potential source of energy.

The freshman at Rocky Point High School in Rocky Point, N.Y., showed off his eighth grade science fair project at a competition here called Broadcom MASTERS (for Math, Applied Science, Technology and Engineering for Rising Stars). This program is sponsored by Broadcom, a company that builds devices to help computers connect to the Internet. Broadcom MASTERS was created by Society for Science & the Public and brings 30 students from across the United States together every year to present their middle-school research to each other and the public.

Right now, most people fuel their cars with gasoline made from fossil fuels such as petroleum. Fossil fuels come from the decayed remains of organisms that died many millions of years ago. But eventually, there won’t be any more fossil fuels to draw upon. So scientists are making biofuels— fuels based on the carbon stored in living organisms, such as plants. Such fuels are more renewable than fossil fuels because plants such as corn and sugarcane can be grown again and again. For instance, engineers can produce bioethanol— a type of alcohol fuel — from the sugars in these plants.

Sugarcane and corn have lots of sugar that is easy to ferment, meaning convert into alcohol. Turning to dead leaves instead presents a challenge for biofuel developers. Dead leaves have sugar, but they also have lots of lignin — a tough substance that strengthens the walls of plant cells. To get to the sugars inside, scientists first have to break down the lignin with chemicals. And that’s a potentially expensive process.

Bryant instead wanted to see if he could the get sugar for biofuels out of dead leaves by pretreating those leaves with acids or bases. These are chemicals that — owing to their pH — can, in high concentrations, eat away at tough materials such as lignin.

The young researcher gathered up three garbage bags full of oak leaves from his yard. Then he went to his father’s laboratory at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, N.Y. He ground up the dead leaves, and then carefully loaded equal amounts of this debris into test tubes. Afterward, he added an acid solution to the test tubes at concentrations of 0.25 percent, 0.5 percent or 1 percent. Other test tubes got a 0.5 percent, 1 percent or 2 percent solution of some base.

A third and final set of test tubes got no pretreatment. It served as a control — a part of the experiment with no change. This was Bryant’s favorite part. “I thought that was really fun,” he says. “It made me feel like a real scientist.”

Most test tubes in each group were heated — to 50° Celsius (122° Fahrenheit), 70 °C (158 °F) or 120 °C (248 °F). But for each group he also had a set of unheated controls.

Finally, Bryant added cellulase to all his tubes. This is an enzyme — a molecule that helps chemical reactions happen. Cellulase breaks down cellulose, a fiber in plant cell walls, into simple sugars. He then measured the sugar levels.

The teen found that pretreating leaves with either an acid or base boosted the release of sugar from his yard’s leaves.

He now concludes that either pre-treatment could help scientists get more sugar — and energy — out of plant materials, such as fall yard wastes. Right now, he explains, the process is still too expensive, but he hopes to find a way to cut the cost.

Bryant now wants to take the sugars from his finding to the next step — making ethanol — “and see how much I can produce from the leaves I collect.” If he could create a better method for producing biofuel, he explains, people would need fewer fossils fuels and “have a renewable energy source for the future.” And, Bryant adds, if people use all those dead leaves for biofuel, he and other kids may have to do less raking each fall.

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

acid A chemical that increases the level of hydrogen ions in a solution.

acidic An adjective for materials that contain acid. These materials often are capable of eating away at some minerals such as carbonate, or preventing their formation in the first place.

base (in chemistry) A chemical that produces hydroxide ions (OH-) in a solution. Basic solutions are also referred to as alkaline. (in genetics) A shortened version of the term nucleobase. These bases are building blocks of DNA and RNA molecules.

bioethanol An alcohol derived from crops such as corn or sugar cane that can be used as a fuel. Researchers therefore refer to it as a type of biofuel.

biofuels Energy sources derived from carbon stored in living organisms. Although wood is a biofuel, most people who support “green” sources of energy consider biofuels to be liquids that can substitute for gasoline. Examples include bioethanol, an alcohol derived from crops such as corn or sugar cane. Engineers are also developing ways to make biofuels from nonfood crops, such as trees and shrubs. Renewable biofuels are an alternative to nonrenewable fossil fuels.

cellulase An enzyme that breaks down cellulose into sugar (glucose) molecules.

cellulose A type of fiber found in plant cell walls. It is formed by chains of glucose molecules.

control A part of an experiment where there is no change from normal conditions. The control is essential to scientific experiments. It shows that any new effect is likely due only to the part of the test that a researcher has altered. For example, if scientists were testing different types of fertilizer in a garden, they would want one section of it to remain unfertilized, as the control. Its area would show how plants in this garden grow under normal conditions. And that give scientists something against which they can compare their experimental data.

enzymes Molecules made by living things to speed up chemical reactions.

fermentation The metabolic process of converting carbohydrates (sugars and starches) into short-chain fatty acids, gases or alcohol. Yeast and bacteria are central to the process of fermentation. Fermentation is a process used to liberate nutrients from food in the human gut. It also is an underlying process used to make alcoholic beverages, from wine and beer to stronger spirits.

fossil fuel Any fuel — such as coal, petroleum (crude oil) or natural gas — that has developed in the Earth over millions of years from the decayed remains of bacteria, plants or animals.

lignin A natural substance that helps strengthen the cell walls of plants. Although lignin is made from a large number of sugar molecules, which should provide energy, livestock can’t digest this material because of the way its sugars are chemically bonded together.

petroleum A thick flammable liquid mixture of hydrocarbons. Petroleum is a fossil fuel mainly found beneath the Earth’s surface. It is the source of the chemicals used to make gasoline, lubricating oils, plastics and many other products.

renewable energy Energy from a source that is not depleted by use, such as hydropower (water), wind power or solar power.

====== 12 ========

Zombies are real!

A zombie crawls through the forest. When it reaches a good spot, it freezes in place. A stalk slowly grows from its head. The stalk then spews out spores that spread, turning others into zombies.

This is no Halloween story about the zombie apocalypse. It's all true. The zombie isn’t a human, though. It’s an ant. And the stalk that emerges from its head is a fungus. Its spores infect other ants, which lets the zombie cycle begin anew.

Underneath that worm-like thing is a spider — now a zombie. The wasp larva on its back controls the spider’s brain, forcing it to spin a special web. That new web will protect the larva as it develops into an adult wasp. Keizo Takasuka

In order to grow and spread, this fungus must hijack an ant’s brain. However weird this might seem, it isn’t all that unusual. The natural world is full of zombies under mind control. Zombie spiders and cockroaches babysit developing wasp larvae — until the babies devour them. Zombie fish flip around and dart toward the surface of the water, seeming to beg for birds to eat them. Zombie crickets, beetles and praying mantises drown themselves in water. Zombie rats are drawn to the smell of the pee of cats that may devour them.

All of these “zombies” have one thing in common: parasites. A parasite lives inside or on another creature, known as its host. A parasite may be a fungus, a worm or another tiny creature. All parasites eventually weaken or sicken their hosts. Sometimes, the parasite kills or even eats its host. But death of the host isn’t the freakiest goal. A parasite might get its host to die in a certain place, or be eaten by a certain creature. In order to accomplish these tricks, some parasites have evolved the ability to hack into the host’s brain and influence its behavior in very specific ways.

How do parasites turn insects and other animals into the walking almost-dead? Every parasite has its own method, but the process usually involves altering chemicals within the victim’s brain. Researchers are working hard to identify which chemicals are involved and how they end up so bizarrely altering their host’s behavior.

Brains, brains! Ant brains!

A fungus doesn’t have a brain. And worms and single-celled critters obviously aren’t very smart. Yet somehow they still control the brains of larger, and smarter, animals.

“It blows my mind,” says Kelly Weinersmith. She is a biologist who studies parasites at Rice University in Houston, Texas. She is particularly interested in “zombie” creatures. True zombies, she points out, aren’t exactly like the type you find in horror stories. “In no way are these animals coming back from the dead,” she says. Most real zombies are doomed to die — and some have very little control over their actions.

One parasite causes infected rats to become attracted to the smell of cat pee. This helps the parasite because it needs a cat to eat the rat for its life cycle to continue. User2547783c_812/istockphoto

The horsehair worm, for instance, needs to emerge in water. To make this happen, it forces its insect host to leap into a lake or swimming pool. Often, the host drowns.

Toxoplasma gondii (TOX-oh-PLAZ-ma GON-dee-eye) is a single-celled creature that can only complete its life cycle inside a cat. But first, this parasite must live for a time in a different animal, such as a rat. To ensure this part-time host gets eaten by a cat, the parasite turns rats into cat-loving zombies.

In Thailand, a species of fungus — Ophiocordyceps — can force an ant to climb almost exactly 20 centimeters (about 8 inches) up a plant, to face north and then to bite down on a leaf. And it makes the ant do this when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. This provides ideal conditions for the fungus to grow and release its spores.

Biologist Charissa de Bekker wants to better understand how that fungus exerts that mind control over the ants. So she and her team have been studying a species related to the Ophiocordyceps fungus in Thailand. This U.S. cousin is a fungus native to South Carolina. It, too, forces ants to leave their colonies and climb. These ants, though, bite down on twigs instead of leaves. This is likely due to the fact that trees and plants in this state lose their leaves in the winter.

De Bekker began these studies at Pennsylvania State University in University Park. There, her team infected a few species of ant with the South Carolina fungus. The parasite could kill all of the different ants she introduced to it. But the fungus made plant-climbing zombies only out of the species that it naturally infects in the wild.

To figure out what was going on, de Bekker’s team collected new, uninfected ants of each species. Then, the researchers removed the insects’ brains. “You use forceps and a microscope,” she says. “It’s sort of like that game Operation.”

A fungus grows out of the head of this now-dead zombie ant. South Carolina photographer Kim Fleming discovered affected ants in her backyard. When scientists saw her photos, they realized she had probably discovered a new fungus. If correct, the zombifying species will probably be named after Fleming! Kim Fleming and Charissa de Bekker

The researchers kept the ant brains alive in small Petri dishes. When the fungus was exposed to its favorite brains (that is, ones from the ants that it naturally infects in the wild), it released thousands of chemicals. Many of these chemicals were completely new to science. The fungus also released chemicals when exposed to unfamiliar brains. These chemicals, however, were completely different. The researchers published their results in 2014.

The experiments at Penn State by de Bekker’s team were the first to create ant zombies in the lab. And the researchers only succeeded after setting up artificial 24-hour cycles of light and darkness for the zombies and their parasites.

It will take more work to learn how the parasite’s chemicals lead to zombie behavior in ants. “We are very much in the beginning of trying to figure this out,” says de Bekker. She now studies ant zombies at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich, Germany. There, she is now probing how that daily cycle of sunlight and darkness affects zombification.

Soul-sucking wasps

Of all parasites, wasps know some of the creepiest tricks. One wasp, Reclinervellus nielseni, lays its eggs only on orb-weaving spiders. When a wasp larva hatches, it slowly sips its host’s blood. The spider stays alive long enough to spin a web. But not just any web. It spins a nursery of sorts for the wriggly, worm-like wasp baby stuck to its back.

The spider will even break down its old web to start a new one for the larva. “The [new] web is stronger than the normal web,” explains Keizo Takasuka. He studies insect behavior and ecology at Kobe University in Japan. When the web is done, the larva eats its spider host.

Now the larva spins a cocoon in the middle of the web. The extra strong threads most likely help the larva stay safe until it emerges from its cocoon 10 days later.

Story continues after video.

In this video, the zombie spider has finished weaving an extra strong web for the wasp larva. The larva then eats the spider’s insides and spins itself a cocoon. Keizo Takasuka

The jewel wasp puts an insect on the menu it serves up to its young: cockroach. But before a wasp larva can chow down, its mother needs to catch a bug that’s twice her size. To do this, says Frederic Libersat, “she transforms the cockroach into a zombie.” Libersat is a neurobiologist who studies how the brain controls behavior. He works at Ben Gurion University in Beer-Sheva, Israel.

The jewel wasp’s sting takes away a cockroach’s ability to move on its own. But it follows like a dog on a leash when the wasp pulls on its antenna. The wasp leads the cockroach to her nest and lays an egg on it. Then she leaves, sealing the egg inside the nest with its dinner. When the egg hatches, the larva slowly devours its host. Being a zombie, this cockroach never tries to fight back or escape.

This scenario is so creepy that biologists named a similar wasp Ampulex dementor — after a supernatural enemy in the Harry Potter series. In these books, dementors can devour people’s minds. This leaves the victim alive but without a self or soul. (Although A. dementor is a close relative of the jewel wasp, Libersat notes that researchers have not yet confirmed that it also turns cockroaches or any other insect into mindless slaves.)

The green female jewel wasp stings a cockroach that’s twice her size. She targets a specific part of the roach’s brain, turning it into a zombie. From the Laboratory of Professor Libersat at Ben Gurion University

Libersat’s group has focused its research on figuring out what the jewel wasp does to the cockroach mind. The mother jewel wasp performs something like brain surgery. She uses her stinger to feel around for the right part of her victim’s brain. Once found, she then injects a zombifying venom.

When Libersat removed the targeted parts of a roach’s brain, the wasp would feel around what was left of the roach’s brain with her stinger for 10 to 15 minutes. “If the brain was present, [the wasp] would take less than a minute,” he notes. This shows that the wasp can sense the right place to inject its poison.

That venom might interfere with a chemical in the roach’s brain called octopamine, Libersat reports. This chemical helps the cockroach stay alert, walk and perform other tasks. When researchers injected a substance similar to octopamine into zombie cockroaches, the insects again began walking.

Libersat cautions, however, that this is likely just one piece of the puzzle. There is still work to do to understand the chemical process happening in the cockroach’s brain, he says. But Weinersmith, who was not involved in the research, notes that Libersat’s team has worked out this chemical process in more detail than is available for most types of zombie mind control.

Brain worms

Weinersmith’s specialty is zombie fish. She studies California killifish infected with a worm called Euhaplorchis californiensis (YU-ha-PLOR-kis CAL-ih-for-nee-EN-sis). A single fish may have thousands of these worms living on the surface of its brain. The wormier the brain, the more likely the fish is to behave strangely.

“We call them zombie fish,” she says, but admits that they are less like zombies than the ants, spiders or cockroaches. An infected fish will still eat normally and stay in a group with its pals. But it also tends to dart toward the surface, twist its body around or rub against rocks. All of these actions make it easier for birds to see the fish. Indeed, it’s almost like the infected fish wants to get eaten.

And that’s precisely the point, says Weinersmith — for the worm. This parasite can only reproduce inside a bird. So it alters the fish’s behavior in a way that attracts birds. Infected fish are 10 to 30 times more likely to get eaten. That's what Weinersmith’s colleagues Kevin Lafferty of the University of California, Santa Barbara and Kimo Morris of Santa Ana College in California discovered.

Weinersmith now is working with Øyvind Øverli at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences, in As. They are studying the chemical processes behind the zombie fish’s bird-seeking behavior. So far, it seems that zombie fish may be less stressed out than their normal cousins. Researchers know what chemical changes should happen to a killifish brain when something, such as the sight of a bird on the prowl, stresses it out. But in a zombie fish’s brain, these chemical changes don’t seem to occur.

This is the brain of a California killifish. Each tiny dot contains one worm curled up inside. A single fish brain may host thousands of these parasites. The more worms, the more the fish acts out in ways that make it easier for a bird to catch it. Kelly Weinersmith

It’s as if the fish notices the hunting bird but doesn’t get freaked out as it should. “We need to do further studies to confirm this is true,” says Weinersmith. Her group plans to analyze the chemicals in the brains of infected fish, then try to recreate the zombie effect in normal fish.

Success won’t come easily. Zombie mind control is a complicated matter. Parasites have developed their control of other creatures’ brains over millions of years of evolution. Scientists have found fossil evidence of fungus-controlled ants dating back 48 million years. Over this long period, she says, “the fungus ‘learned’ a lot more about how the ant’s brain works than human scientists have.”

But scientists are starting to catch up. “Now we can ask [the parasites] what they’ve learned,” quips Weinersmith.

Ant brains may be much simpler than human brains, but the chemistry going on inside them isn’t all that different. Figuring out the secrets of zombie mind control in bugs could help neuroscientists understand more about the links between the brain and behavior in people.

Eventually, this work could lead to new medicines or therapies for human brains. We just have to hope that a mad scientist won’t go out and start making human zombies!

====== 13 ========

Concerns explode over new health risks of vaping

When Irfan Rahman talked to young vapers, some complained of bleeding mouths and throats. And these bloody sores seemed slow to heal. Such reports concerned this toxicologist at the University of Rochester in New York. So he decided to investigate what the vapors inhaled from electronic cigarettes might be doing to mouth cells.

Last October, his team showed those vapors inflame mouth cells in ways that could potentially promote gum disease. That gum damage can destroy the tissues that hold teeth in place. So severe gum disease could lead to tooth loss.

But that’s hardly the end of it.

Vapers inhale those same gases and particles into their lungs. Rahman wondered what effects those vapors might have on cells there. One gauge would be to test how long any lung-cell damage took to heal. And his latest data confirm that e-cigarette vapors also make it hard for lung cells to repair damage.

Students as young as 12 or 13 are now more likely to vape than to smoke. Many are under the impression that because e-cigs don’t contain tobacco, they pose little risk to health. Wrong.

Over the past few months, research has turned up evidence that vaping can pose many brand new risks. The vapors mess with immunity, some studies show. “Smoker’s cough” and bloody sores have begun showing up in teen vapers. The hotter a vaped liquid gets, the harsher its effects on human cells. And a relatively new vaping behavior called “dripping” ups the heat. This threatens to intensify a teen’s risks from those vapors.

Some new data even suggest that e-cig vapors may contain cancer-causing chemicals.

“There are a lot of potentially harmful substances in e-cigarettes. If you’re a teen with your whole life in front of you, why take that risk?” asks Rob McConnell. He’s an internal medicine specialist at the University of Southern California (USC) in Los Angeles.

The newly emerging data suggest that adolescents ignore these risks at their peril.

Impaired wound healing

Cells in the body face constant damage from foreign substances, infections and injury. Most times, nothing bad happens to their host. That’s because the body has a system in place to heal itself. Most major organs have special cells — fibroblasts (FY-broh-blasts) — that repair damaged or injured tissue.

Fibroblasts make up the connective tissues that keep organs in place. But when injured, these cells morph into wound-healers. “If you cut your hand, fibroblasts are the guys that are going to come in and help heal it,” explains Rahman.

In their wound-healing form, fibroblasts at the edges of a cut will shrink. This causes the wound to close up. This squeezing or contraction of the skin takes a lot of energy. Fortunately, fibroblasts are powered by cellular engines. Called mitochondria (My-toh-KON-dree-uh), these tiny powerhouses turn food (sugar) into fuel.

Fibroblast cells (such as those seen here) repair damaged or injured tissues. The cells’ nuclei are colored blue. Their mitochondria are red. Filaments (green) help the fibroblast contract. ZEISS Microscopy/Wikimedia Commons ( CC-BY 2.0

In the lab, Rahman and his colleagues grew lung fibroblasts in Petri dishes. Then they cut into the community of growing cells to mimic a wound. Afterward, they exposed the growing cells to e-cigarette vapors.

As expected, the fibroblasts morphed into wound-healing cells. But unexpectedly, they didn’t close up the cut. Curious, Rahman looked more closely at the cellular machinery. Some mitochondria had been destroyed. The fibroblasts simply had run out of the energy they needed before they could successfully squeeze the wound closed.

Rahman’s team described its findings March 3 in Scientific Reports.

It’s not clear yet if the fibroblast damage that Rahman showed in the lab signals that wounds will heal more slowly in people who vape. After all, in the lab, scientists can manipulate one variable at a time while holding other factors constant. But in the body, many processes will be at work all at once. This can make it harder to tease out whether such lab tests mimic well what would happen to an otherwise healthy person.

And that’s why Rahman now hopes to compare rates of wound healing in people who vape to rates in those who don’t. For now, however, he’s worried that what he saw in the lab may indeed mimic risks to people.

Smoker’s cough becomes vaper’s cough?

Inhaling pollution can irritate the lungs. And when the assaulting particles are breathed in regularly, the lungs tend to respond by triggering a cough that won’t go away, explains McConnell at USC. He has been studying the effects of air pollution in kids. Inhaling irritating particles or gases may lead to bronchitis (Bron-KY-tis). That’s when the airways that channel oxygen to the lungs become irritated and inflamed.

Researchers have found evidence that vaping can irritate the lungs and lead to chronic wheezing and coughs, a condition known as bronchitis. AlexRaths/iStockphoto

Bronchitis may cause wheezing, too, and coughs that bring up thick mucus known as phlegm (FLEM). The germs that cause colds, flu and bacterial infections can sometimes trigger bronchitis. So can breathing in heavily polluted air, tobacco smoke or certain chemical fumes.

When these symptoms don’t go away, the bronchitis is called chronic (KRON-ik). And cigarette smoking is its most common cause. That’s why chronic bronchitis is typically referred to as “smoker’s cough.”

McConnell’s team decided to look for signs of bronchitis in vaping teens. After all, he explains, “There are a lot of these irritants in e-cigarette vapor.”

The researchers asked 2,000 students in the Los Angeles, Calif., area about their vaping habits. All were in their last two years of high school. The researchers also asked the teens about any respiratory symptoms. These could include coughs or phlegm.

Anyone who reported a daily cough for at least three straight months was judged to have chronic bronchitis. A student with persistent phlegm or congestion for three months or more that was not accompanied by a cold or flu also was suspected of having chronic bronchitis.

About 500 of the students said they had vaped at some point. And about 200 had vaped within the past 30 days. Those recent vapers were about twice as likely to have chronic bronchitis as were kids who had never vaped, the researchers report. Students who had vaped in the past, but not in the last month, also were about as likely as current vapers to have chronic bronchitis.

The researchers looked for other possible causes of the teens’ persistent coughs and phlegm. One of these was local air pollution. They also looked at the teens’ exposure to triggers for allergic asthma. Such triggers can include molds and pet dander. Yet even accounting for all of that did not erase the link between vaping and chronic bronchitis.

The findings, first announced in November, will appear in an upcoming issue of the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine.

These data also support what has been seen in studies conducted in human and animal cells, Rahman notes.

It worries McConnell that vapers show some of the same lung symptoms as cigarette smokers. It also worries him that more teens are taking up vaping. E-cigarette use grew an astounding 900 percent among high school students between 2011 and 2015.

Cigarette smokers with chronic bronchitis often develop permanent lung damage as they get older. Researchers don’t know yet whether long-term vapers will too.

“People haven’t been using e-cigarettes long enough to answer that question,” observes McConnell. E-cigarettes have been available in the United States only since 2007.

Teens lured by fruity flavors

A third new study investigated the role of flavor in e-cig use, especially by teens.

E-cigarettes don’t burn tobacco as true cigarettes do. Yet they still are considered tobacco products. That’s because the liquids that are vaporized in e-cigarettes usually contain nicotine. It’s the addictive substance found in tobacco leaves — one that also gives cigarettes their stimulant effect, or “buzz.”

Vaping liquids can come in many pleasing flavors, which can make e-cigarettes more appealing to kids and teens, scientists warn. Lindsay Fox/Wikimedia Commons ( CC-BY 2.0

A team of researchers led by Li-Ling Huang at the University of North Carolina (UNC) in Chapel Hill wanted to know whether the e-liquid’s flavor affected how safe people thought vaping was. To do this, they reviewed 40 studies on flavored tobacco products. These included flavored e-cigs. Most of the studies had been conducted between 2010 and 2016.

Both tobacco users and non-users said tobacco products were more appealing when the products had pleasing flavors. Younger people were particularly interested in fruity and candy-flavored products. In fact, this is one reason the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2009 banned cigarettes flavored with anything but menthol. It was to limit their appeal to kids.

“It turns out that an interest in flavors is one of the main reasons that youth try e-cigarettes,” says Adam Goldstein of UNC. An author of the new study, his past work had focused on tobacco use.

Teens also tended to perceive pleasantly flavored products as less harmful than tobacco-flavored ones, his team’s data show. Their findings are due to appear in an upcoming issue of Tobacco Control.

Goldstein says it’s important to note that just because something doesn’t taste like tobacco doesn’t mean it is safe. Studies have shown that some flavor compounds in e-liquids (such as cinnamon extract) appear to become harmful when heated in an e-cigarette.

Review studies like this one point to potentially important trends. Such studies may help shape new policies, Goldstein says. (Policies are actions taken by government, companies or other large groups.)

Goldstein believes that removing flavorings would be one way to discourage kids from experimenting with e-cigs. “Research suggests that if you remove the flavors, far fewer youth around the country would use any tobacco product,” he says. And that would put fewer kids at risk for vaping-related damage to the mouth and lungs.

Toxic metals in e-liquids

At the heart of every e-cigarette is a metal coil used to heat up the flavored e-liquid that will become a vapor. Scientists have found a number of harmful chemicals in e-cigarette vapors. Some can cause cancer. Among these are formaldehyde (For-MAAL-de-hide) and acetaldehyde (Ass-et-AAL-de-hide). Previous studies had shown that some e-liquids that were considered harmless could become toxic — but only after they were heated by an e-cig’s especially hot coil.

Now Catherine Hess of the University of California, Berkeley, and her colleagues have turned up traces of toxic metals in the e-liquids used in five different brands of e-cigarettes. Those liquids came packaged from the manufacturer in non-refillable e-cigs. The scientists chose to look at these “first-generation” e-cigarettes because they are inexpensive, which can make them especially attractive to teens.

Scientists have found toxic chemicals in the vapors of some e-cigarettes and toxic metals in some liquids that would be vaped. Alter_Photo/iStockphoto

The most concerning of these metals were nickel, chromium and manganese. The amounts of them varied between brands. All three metals occur naturally in rock formations all over the planet. Inside the body, though, they can cause trouble. Research suggests that nickel and certain forms of chromium may cause cancer. Manganese can harm the nervous system.

The researchers measured only the amount of toxic metals in the e-liquids, not how much ended up in the vapor. “More research is needed to see whether e-cigarette users are being exposed to these chemicals when they inhale — and what the long-term effects of those exposures might be,” says Rahman, who was not involved in this study.

Hess’s team published its results in the January Environmental Research.

Another new study turned up benzene in e-cig vapors. This chemical is known to pose a cancer risk to people. Chemist James Pankow and his team at Portland State University in Oregon don’t know the chemical’s source. Benzene is, however, a toxic component of cigarette smoke. The levels in e-cig vapors were not as high as in cigarette smoke. Still, Pankow argues, that does not mean that vaping poses little benzene risk.

“The fact that vaping can deliver benzene levels many times higher than those found in the ambient [air] — where it’s already recognized as a cancer risk — should be of concern to anyone using e-cigarettes,” he says. Higher-power e-cigs, which burn hotter, produced the most benzene in the Portland State tests. So, Pankow now urges, “Please stay away from high power if it’s available on your device.”

His team published its findings March 8 in the journal PLOS ONE.

Concerns about dripping

Newer-generation e-cigs allow users to choose — and change — what flavorings they heat up in their devices. Most vapers choose a liquid with nicotine (that addictive, stimulant found in tobacco). To get the biggest nicotine hit from each puff, some vapers take the outside cover off of their e-cigarette and use an eyedropper to “drip” the liquid directly onto the device’s coil.

This is an atomizer used for dripping. A couple drops of e-liquids are dripped directly onto the hot coils to create a vapor cloud. librakv/iStockphoto

E-liquids reach higher temperatures when dripped directly onto the coil. This also creates a bigger vapor cloud and provides a bigger throat hit. A new study now raises special concerns for teens who drip.

Allowing the liquid to get superhot can transform harmless chemicals in the e-liquid into toxic ones. (Note: At least one recent study showed that the hotter the vaped liquid became, the more likely it was to undergo such a toxic transformation.) And dripping makes this super-heating likely. Some people even use attachments, called atomizers, to do this more effectively.

Vaping hobbyists that do smoke tricks may have popularized dripping, says Suchitra Krishnan-Sarin. A psychiatrist at Yale University in New Haven, Conn., she’s been studying vaping behaviors in teens. Many now drip, she and her colleagues report.

This team surveyed 1,080 Connecticut high schoolers who said they vaped. One in every four teen vapers said he or she had tried dripping.

This is the first time any study has reported on the popularity of dripping in teens. (Researchers don’t yet know how common dripping is among adults.) The new statistics appear in the February Pediatrics.

Most teens who dripped said they had hoped it would let them make thicker vapor clouds or give the vapor a stronger taste. At present, little is known about the health risks of this type of vaping, Krishnan-Sarin notes.

And that worries her. “There’s great concern,” she says, “that kids are being exposed to higher levels of known carcinogens this way.” Researchers don’t yet know if this is true. And that’s because no one has yet studied whether more of these compounds get into the body when people drip instead of vaping normally.

For now, Krishnan-Sarin says a bigger vapor cloud or more flavorful hit probably isn’t worth the risk. “You don’t know what you’re exposing yourself to,” she points out, and no one should assume that the e-liquids and the vapors they generate are harmless.

====== 14 ========

New apps match donated items with people in need

WASHINGTON, D.C. — The internet often does a good job of playing matchmaker. Potential buyers can find sellers. Dating websites help guys meet girls, and girls meet guys. Now, two teens have come up with apps to link donors of aid with people who need assistance.

Akshaya Venkatesh, 14, from Scottsdale, Ariz., wants to help the hungry. Last year, this 9th-grader attended the BASIS Scottsdale school. Shreyas Kar, 13, a 9th-grader who last year attended Meyzeek Middle School in Louisville, Ky., wants to aid people in dire straits after natural disasters. These might include floods and hurricanes. Both young researchers showcased the results of their computer programming skills here, last month. They were among 30 finalists at the eighth annual Broadcom MASTERS competition.

The event brings together U.S. middle-school students each year to tackle team challenges. (MASTERS stands for Math, Applied Science, Technology and Engineering for Rising Stars.) The program was created by Society for Science & the Public, which publishes Science News for Students and this blog. The Broadcom Foundation, headquartered in Irvine, Calif., sponsors the event.

Unlike most science competitions, only a small share of a finalist’s overall score is based on their qualifying science-fair research from the previous year. Roughly four-fifths of the students’ score reflects the creativity they showed and how well they worked to solve research challenges as part of a team.

Helping the hungry

A lot of food ends up in the trash. If that seems wasteful, that’s because it is. In the United States, more than 38 million tons of food gets thrown away each year. That’s according to a 2016 study by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. A good-sized fraction of this waste consists of spoiled vegetables and fruit, notes Akshaya. “Even if something has a small brown spot on it, people will throw it away,” she says.

This teen had been volunteering to help the hungry. She collects fruit from neighbors’ trees, for instance, and then carries it to charities that feed the needy. “One family donates their lemons,” she says. “Another one donates their oranges.”

Akshaya Venkatesh, 14, of Scottsdale, Ariz., shows off her new matchmaking phone app. SSP

A couple of years ago, Akshaya decided to use her computer programming skills to help even more. “I love programming,” she notes. “People think it’s super nerdy, but I like it. It’s like a game.”

The app she created lets people log in and list the type of produce that they have: vegetables, fruit, whatever. They can also list other information, including their address. Then, any charity worker that logs in to the app can see what’s available. Users can contact the donors to arrange for workers to harvest or pick up the fresh produce.

One non-profit group has helped Akshaya test her app. She hopes to expand use of this program soon. If that happens, more organizations, including local food banks, should be able to receive donations of fresh food that might otherwise go to waste.

Akshaya’s app might help the world in other ways, too. Many crops are kept hydrated by feeding them irrigation water. If any of the harvested crops then go to waste, that irrigation water will also have been wasted, the teen notes. And then there is the climate impact of wasted food. When produce rots, it releases carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere. Emissions from all the world’s wasted food each year adds up to about 4.4 billion metric tons of CO 2 , Akshaya points out. That figure comes from a 2011 study by the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization. If the emissions from all rotting food were tallied as if they came from one country, only the United States and China would send more human-caused greenhouse gases into the air each year.

So, the less food that is wasted, Akshaya explains, the better it is for the environment.

After disasters strike

When hurricanes, fires or floods devastate an area, large numbers of people can suddenly become very needy. People, companies and organizations often rush in to help. Big problems can arise, though, in linking up these donors and the people who need their aid. That’s where apps such as the one being created by Shreyas might help.

Shreyas Kar, 13, of Louisville, Ky., wanted to help people in the wake of natural disasters, so he developed an app that enables charities helping the needy to identify and locate supplies donated by companies and individuals. SSP

Hurricane Harvey hit Houston, Texas, in August 2017. Storm damage there was followed by severe flooding. The next month, Hurricane Maria slammed into Puerto Rico. For much of a year, many residents of that U.S. island had no electricity. Shreyas saw that many people wanted to help end the suffering. “But many times, the donations didn’t match the need,” he notes. Right after such disasters, some of the greatest need is for basic items. This might be water, soap and toiletries, he points out. So he developed an app where a community could report what it needs.

First, he talked to people who work with charities to get their ideas. Then, he came up with ideas about what the pages in his app should look like. After that, he started programming. Finally, he ran a few tests. And they were largely successful, he notes.

Once logged in, someone “should be able to identify the most needed items,” the teen says, “and then donate them.” Donors can even schedule when and where to drop off their items. Or, charities that need aid could log into the app and see what donations are available. Then they could contact the donors to arrange for a pickup. As matches are made, the app could automatically update the inventory of available goods, Shreyas explains.

He has shared the app with some charities in his home town. He hopes the matchmaker app will become increasingly useful. For now, this teen is studying to become a mathematician. “I want to do more research and find new ways to solve problems,” he says.

The future would seem to hold many problems for young researchers like Akshaya and Shreyas to solve. Indeed, hunger and natural disasters will likely challenge humanity for decades to come.

====== 15 ========

Harry Potter can apparate. Can you?

In the universe where Harry Potter, Newt Scamander and fantastic beasts can be found, witches and wizards abound — and they can teleport from one place to the next. This ability is known as apparition. No one in the real world has this talent, especially not poor Muggles (non-magical people) like us. But while it is impossible for anyone to apparate from home to school or work, an atom is another matter. But enough of those atoms together, and it might actually be possible to create a copy of yourself somewhere else. The only catch? The process would probably kill you.

Characters in movies and books — like the magic users in the Harry Potter series by J.K. Rowling — don’t have to obey the laws of physics. We do. That’s one reason why nobody is ever going to apparate instantly from one place to another. Such instantaneous travel would be blocked by a universal limit, the speed of light.

“Nothing can really be transported from one place to another faster than the speed of light,” says Alexey Gorshkov. He’s a physicist at the Joint Quantum Institute in College Park, Md. (In the Harry Potter world, he notes, he’d be a Gryffindor.) “Even teleportation is limited by the speed of light,” he says.

Light speed is about 300 million meters per second (some 671 million miles per hour). At speeds like that, you could get from London to Paris in 0.001 second. So if someone were to apparate at light speed, they’d move pretty quickly. There would just be a very slight delay between when they’d disappear and appear. And that delay would be bigger the farther they traveled.

In a world without magic, though, how could someone move that fast? Gorshkov has an idea. First, you would have to learn every itsy bitsy thing about a person. “It’s a full description of a human being, all your flaws, and where all your atoms are,” Gorshkov explains. That last bit is really important. Then, you would put all those data into a very advanced computer and send them somewhere else — say from Japan to Brazil. When the data arrive, you could take a pile of matching atoms — carbon, hydrogen and everything else in a body — and assemble a copy of the person in Brazil. You’ve now apparated.

There are some problems with this method of apparition. For one, scientists don’t have any way to figure out the position of every single atom in the body. But the bigger problem is that you end up with two copies of the same person. “The original copy would still be there [in Japan], and someone would probably have to kill you there,” Gorshkov says. But, he notes, the process of getting all that information about the position of every atom in your body might kill you anyway. Still, you’d be alive in Brazil, as a copy of yourself — at least in theory.

In the world of Harry Potter and Newt Scamander, wizards can appear and disappear in swirls of magic. Could they really?

Let’s get quantum

Another way of moving data from one place to another comes from the quantum world. Quantum physics is used to explain how matter behaves at the very tiniest scale — single atoms and light particles, for example.

In quantum physics, apparition still isn’t possible. “But we do have something kind of similar, and we call it quantum teleportation,” says Krister Shalm. He’s a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Boulder, Colo. (In the Harry Potter universe, he says, he’d be a Slytherin.)

Teleportation in the quantum world requires something called entanglement. This is when particles — say, negatively charged particles called electrons — are linked, even when they aren’t physically close to each other.

When two electrons are entangled, something about them — their position, for example, or which way they spin — is perfectly connected. If electron A in Japan is entangled with electron B in Brazil, a scientist measuring the speed of A also knows what B’s speed is. That’s true even though she’s never seen that faraway electron.

If the scientist in Japan has data on a third electron (electron C) to send to Brazil, then, Gorshkov explains, they can use A to send a bit of information about C to the entangled particle B in Brazil.

The advantage of this kind of transfer, Shalm says, is that the data are teleported, not copied. So you don’t end up with a copy of a person in Brazil and an unfortunate clone left behind in Japan. This method would move all the details about the person from Japan to a waiting pile of atoms in Brazil. Left behind in Japan would be only a pile of atoms without the corresponding information about where everything goes. “The person left over would be a blank canvas,” Shalm explains.

This would be disturbing, he adds. What’s more, scientists can’t do this very well for even a single particle. “With light [particles], it only succeeds 50 percent of the time,” he says. “Would you risk it if it only worked 50 percent of the time?” With odds like that, he notes, it’s better to just walk.

Wilder wormhole theories

There might be ways to apparate that scientists have only theorized about. One is something called a wormhole. Wormholes are tunnels that connect two points in space and time. And if Doctor Who’s TARDIS can use a wormhole, why not a wizard?

In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Harry describes apparating as being “pressed very hard from all directions.” That feeling of pressure could be from going down the wormhole, says J.J. Eldridge. She’s an astrophysicist — someone who studies the properties of objects in space — at the University of Auckland in New Zealand. (In the Harry Potter world, she’s a Hufflepuff.). “I just don’t think a single wizard could warp spacetime enough to make one. That would require a lot of energy and mass.” Wormholes also would have to be real. Scientists think that wormholes could exist, but no one — wizard or Muggle — ever has seen one.

And then there’s the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. It states that the more someone knows about the position of a particle, the less they know about how fast the particle is going. Look at it the other way, it means that if someone knows exactly how fast a particle is going, they don’t know anything about where it is. It could be anywhere. It could, for example, have teleported somewhere else.

So if a witch knew enough about exactly how fast she was going, she would know so little about where she was that she could end up somewhere else. “When apparition is described, it says it’s like being pushed in from all sides, so this made me wonder if what’s going on is that the magic user is trying to constrain their speed and slow themselves down,” Eldridge explains. If they slow down, then the magic-user would know a lot about how fast they were going — they aren’t moving at all. But because of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, they would know less and less about where they were. “Then the uncertainty in their position must grow so that they suddenly vanish and reappear in the direction they’re trying to restrict their [speed] to,” she adds.

Right now, though, Eldridge doesn’t know how someone would make this happen. All she knows is that it would take a lot of energy. “The only way I can think of to slow something down is to decrease its temperature,” she says. “You might need a lot of energy to cool the person down, so all the particles are frozen in place and then jump to the new location.” Freezing all your particles in place, though, is not a healthy thing to do. If it lasted more than an instant, you’d probably be dead.

So maybe it’s better to leave apparition to the quantum world — and the wizards.

====== 16 ========

Scientists vote to fix the world’s weight-loss problem

[NOTE: This story has been updated (see bottom) to account for the vote.]

November is election time, and not only for voters in the United States. On November 16, hundreds of scientists will gather in Paris, France, for the most unusual election this year, if not this century. Maybe ever. The voting scientists won’t be choosing new leaders or passing new laws.

They’ll be voting on something more elementary: a definition.

If the vote passes, they’ll permanently change the meaning of the word kilogram. The change will help scientists and engineers measure more precisely. Experts have been preparing for this vote for a decade. It they have done their job, they’ll fix a looming problem — and the rest of the world won’t even notice.

“I will go, and I will vote,” says Peter Mohr. He’s a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Gaithersburg, Md. He is also to blame, at least partially, for the vote. Twenty years ago, Mohr helped write papers arguing that the kilogram needed a new definition.

He expects the vote to pass with flying colors. “Hopefully there won’t be surprises,” he says. “But you never know.”

To understand why changing a kilogram is a big deal, you have to consider what the word means now. And to understand that, you have to visit a secure vault in Europe. This quiet, small room is opened only once a year.

In the center is NIST’s platinum-iridium kilogram, a replica of the IPK in France. J.L. Lee/NIST

The kilogram

The underground vault is in Sèvres, France, close to Paris. Inside lies an unusual treasure nicknamed Le Grand K. It’s also known as the International Prototype of the Kilogram, or the IPK. It’s a squat cylinder made of polished metal. It stands about as tall as someone’s thumb, and has a diameter equal to its height. It sits inside a vacuum-sealed bell jar and no bare hands ever handle it!

To unlock the vault requires not one but three keys, each in the possession of a different person. Hao Fang doesn’t have a key, but she has been inside the room. She’s a physicist at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, which takes care of Le Grand K. Every year, she’s part of a small group of scientists who enter the vault to visit the cylinder.

Le Grand K is a platinum and iridium cylinder that for nearly 144 years has been the definition of the kilogram. It sits under a glass jar in a vault near Paris. This isn’t Le Grand K, but this photo shows how the standard is kept. Photo courtesy of the BIPM

“It’s a small room, with lots of sensors,” she says. “We only stay a short time because we don’t want to disturb the environment. We check that everything is okay.”

That may seem like a lot of bother, but Le Grand K isn’t just any ordinary cylinder. Every time you weigh something or measure its mass, the accuracy of your measurement depends on Le Grand K.

That’s because this curious and shiny little doodad is the exact definition of a kilogram — at least until November 16.

Kilograms are used to describe the mass of an object, which tells you how much matter the object contains. A bowling ball has a mass of about 5 kilograms. A basketball has a mass of about 0.5 kilogram. If you compare those two numbers, you can confirm what you already knew from picking them up. A bowling ball contains more matter than a basketball.

If you live somewhere that measures mass in pounds, the new change will affect you, too. That’s because a pound is defined as 0.4536 kilogram. That bowling ball is 11 pounds. And the basketball is 1.1 pounds. And this means that if the definition of a kilogram changes, so does the definition of a pound.

By our current definition, noting that a bowling ball has a mass of 5 kilograms is the same as noting that it contains exactly five times as much matter as Le Grand K. (But of course, we don’t learn it that way, or say that. We don’t say that because it’s a lot of words, and because it sounds ridiculous.) Every mass measurement, no matter where it’s done or what it’s done on, no matter how big or how small, traces back to Le Grand K.

And that’s a problem, say experts. If you define a unit with a physical object like Le Grand K, you have to consider some strange problems. For example: What if something happened to the cylinder?

“If someone dropped the IPK, the mass of the world would change,” says Stephan Schlamminger. He’s a physicist at NIST who is working on the new definition. In a split second, he notes, “everyone will have the wrong measurement.”

But this situation should change soon. Scientists are expected to vote to no longer define a kilogram as the mass of Le Grand K. Instead, a kilogram will be defined according to a mathematical formula that uses a natural constant of the universe. It’s called Planck’s constant. A constant is a number that doesn’t change. Planck’s constant is a number that shows up when scientists study quantum mechanics. These are the rules that describe the behavior of subatomic particles.

Is this the first time scientists have decided on a new definition for the kilogram?

No. The quest for a precise unit of mass has a long history. Historians know the Romans had a system of weights and measures, for example. But at the end of the 18th century, scientists all over the world were becoming frustrated because units had different values from country to country.

In 1799, during the French Revolution, scientists adopted a specially-designed copper metal bar as the definition of one meter (3.3 feet). A small platinum cylinder became the definition of one kilogram (2.2 pounds). The cylinder represented the mass of 1,000 cubic centimeters of water near its freezing point.

Those two objects represented the beginning of the metric system. In 1889, scientists from all over the world came to Paris for a meeting to agree on units that they would all use. It was called the General Conference on Weights and Measures. That’s the same group that will meet and vote this month. (Though with different members, of course.)

The metric system is still the most commonly used system in the world.

What is the metric system anyway?

The metric system is a measuring system that uses seven so-called “base units.” They are part of the International System of Units. It’s called the SI system for short. The meter and kilogram are two base units. The others include the second (time), the kelvin (temperature), the ampere (electric current), the candela (intensity of light) and the mole (numbers of molecules).

One feature that makes the metric system special is that it is based on the number 10. For instance, 10 millimeters make up a centimeter. And 100 centimeters (100 is 10 times 10) make up a meter.

I’ve never heard of some of those base units.

If you keep studying science, you will meet them all.

I live in the United States, and we measure length in feet or miles, and weight in pounds. Why should I care?

The United States doesn’t use the SI system. Instead, it uses “customary units.” In this system, length is measured using units like feet and inches. People measure weight in pounds. This system isn’t based on the number 10. For instance, 12 inches make up a foot. Three feet make up a yard. And 1,760 yards make up a mile.

These customary units are, however, defined by SI units. A pound is exactly 2.2 kilograms, for instance. So changing the definition of the kilogram will change the definition of a pound.

That sounds incredibly confusing. Why doesn’t everyone just the same system?

It’s hard to teach an old country new units.

Fine. Do scientists still use a copper rod to define a meter?

The definition of the meter once relied on a metal bar, such as these. Today, that definition is based on a constant, the speed of light. H. Mark Helfer/NIST

No. Like the kilogram, the meter has a history of scientific debate that goes back hundreds of years. In 1960, scientists voted to retire the copper rod. They recognized that if the rod changed, even a little, the definition of the meter would change. For example, what if an earthquake knocked the rod around, and it lost some atoms?

They changed the definition of a meter to the length of electromagnetic waves produced by a form of the element krypton called krypton-86. Krypton-86 is radioactive. That means it emits energy in the form of waves.

Two decades later, scientists changed the meter again to be even more precise. They connected it to the speed of light in a vacuum. That speed of light is a natural constant. It never changes and can be measured precisely. In one second, light travels 299,792,458 meters (186,282 miles). Since 1983, a meter has been equivalent to how far light travels in 1/299,792,458th of a second.

You mentioned a bunch of other units.

Five, to be exact.

Let me guess. They’re also up for a vote?

Some are. Metrologists want…

Stop! What’s a metrologist?

Metrology is the study of measurement. A metrologist is someone like Hao Fang, a scientist interested in how we measure things.

Okay, got it. Continue.

So metrologists like Peter Mohr, Hao Fang and Stephan Schlamminger want to link all the SI units to fundamental constants.

Like the way the meter is connected to the speed of light.

Exactly. In November, in addition to the kilogram, scientists will vote on new definitions of the kelvin, the ampere and the mole. All of those units are tied to natural constants. However, the kilogram is the only unit that’s still connected to a physical object, Le Grand K.

What’s the name of the natural constant used in the new definition?

Planck’s constant.

I don’t know what that is.

It’s named after Max Planck, a German physicist who won the Nobel Prize in physics in 1918. He showed that energy transmitted by photons — the particles associated with light — can exist only in small packets called quanta. Planck’s constant connects that energy to the wavelength of light. You have to study quantum mechanics to find out more, but it’s worth the trouble.

Let’s get back to Le Grand K. I have more questions about this shiny cylinder.

Fire away.

What’s it made of?

It’s 90 percent platinum and 10 percent iridium.

Is it the only one of its kind?

Yes and no. The IPK in France is the official kilogram. But many countries have their own copies. Each copy is engraved with a number. Nations can use those copies as a national standard, so metrologists don’t have to go to France every time they want to check their work. Checking a mass against any of these standards, though, is cumbersome. And that’s only one of the problems with using Le Grande K as the standard for the kilogram.

Perfectly round silicon spheres, like this one, have helped scientists refine the new definition of the kilogram. NIST

What are the other problems?

Every few decades, scientists open the vault to clean and check the IPK. It’s a long and drawn out process of steam-cleaning, and you have to handle the cylinder with special tweezers and gloves. It was during one of these checkups, in 1993, that scientists found a big problem. When metrologists compared Le Grand K to its official copies, the found that the copies all weighed more than Le Grand K. That meant that either they’d all gained mass, or Le Grand K had lost some. But if Le Grand K had lost mass, then the definition of the kilogram had shifted.

That’s not only a problem for people who want to measure kilograms. “Other units depend on the definition of the kilogram,” says Fang. “So if the IPK changes in mass, the other units also change. This is a problem.”

Can another definition for the kilogram overcome these problems?

Scientists have been debating that for decades. They’ve proposed many ways to redefine the kilogram. One involves using perfect spheres made of silicon. By counting the atoms in a sphere and using a mathematical equation, they can measure Planck’s constant. These spheres have played an important role in the process of the redefinition.

Schlamminger, though, notes that a silicon sphere has the same problem as Le Grand K. “It will become the artifact,” he says. “And we’re always worried about using the artifact. You may destroy it. Or change it.”

Instead of the silicon spheres, scientists have chosen a different way to measure Planck’s constant — and thus redefine the kilogram. It’s called a Kibble balance.

Leon Chao pictured with NIST’s Kibble balance. It has measured the Planck constant very precisely, to within 34 parts per billion. These measurements have helped shape the redefinition of the kilogram. Curt Suplee/NIST

Kibble, as in pet food?

No, Kibble as in Bryan Kibble, the British physicist who invented it. He died in 2016. The Kibble balance (previously called the Watt balance) is a scale, but it’s not like one you use in the bathroom. It uses electricity and magnetism to balance the weight of a small object. Measurements taken during that balancing act can be used to find Planck’s constant. Once Planck’s constant is determined, the scale will have been calibrated. Then, scientists can use the Kibble balance — and some mathematical equations — to determine the exact mass of an object.

Why is this better than the IPK?

The fact that the kilogram will no longer be a physical object provides several advantages. “The Kibble balance is a machine, and the more you use it, the better you get at it,” Schlamminger says. He should know: He’s spent years helping to design and test the latest version of the machine.

Also, there’s more than one Kibble balance. NIST has one. So do Canada and Switzerland. France has two. More will surely be built. That means there will be no need to travel to one place to determine an official mass. And because a balance can determine mass for objects of different size, scientists will be able, with high precision, to measure things that are much smaller and much bigger than a kilogram.

So what will happen when the kilogram changes from one definition to the other?

You won’t notice anything different. Scientists will officially adopt the value of Planck’s constant. From that point on, they’ll use that value to determine mass. They will turn to the Kibble balance to figure out the mass of an object instead of making a comparison to the IPK.

What will happen to Le Grande K?

“We will keep it for historical interest,” says Fang. “But it will no longer have the role of the IPK.” It won’t be shelved immediately, though. Fang points out that the Kibble balance is a complicated machine that requires a lot of time and people-power to operate. In the short term, the IPK and its sisters around the world will remain easier ways to measure mass.

And the change won’t officially go into effect until May 20, 2019. That day is celebrated as World Metrology Day because it marks the day in 1875, in France, when scientists agreed to use the same units in their scientific measurements.

How should I celebrate?

Measure something!

Update: On Nov. 16, 2018, the International Bureau of Weights and Measures issued this statement: "Today, in a landmark decision, representatives from 60 countries voted to redefine the International System of Units (SI), changing the world’s definition of the kilogram, the ampere, the kelvin and the mole, forever." In fact, representatives of only 54 nations were present for the vote, notes

Fiona Autry. But they unanimously gave their consent during a vote at 1:40 p.m. Central European Time, she add. Autry works for Britain's National Physical Laboratory.

(Note: This story has been corrected for an earlier typo in describing the relationship between the cylinder's size and the mass of water it equaled.)

====== 17 ========

How your brain is like a film editor

Our lives are continuous experiences. But like the scenes of a movie, we tend to remember particular moments or scenes plucked from those experiences. Maybe you remember what your third-grade classroom looked like. Or kicking a goal in a soccer game. Or some particular meal that you ate at a friend’s house. New research suggests these memories may have been saved thanks to a part of the brain called the hippocampus.

The hippocampus may slice up our life’s moments in ways that can be stored away as memories. Think of it as the film editor of our lives.

Gabriel Radvansky studies the psychology of memory at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. He wasn't part of the new research. But it offers a new way to study how people form memories, he says. “Research like this helps us identify, ‘What is an event?’ from the point of view of the brain.”

Many lab tests of memory check how well people can recall dull lists of information. “So much research is done with these little bits and pieces — words, pictures, things like that,” Radvansky says. But those dry tidbits aren’t what the human brain usually handles. “The mind is built to deal with complex events.”

For the new study, researchers turned to something more like real life: movies.

Aya Ben-Yakov and Rik Henson work at the University of Cambridge in England. As cognitive neuroscientists, they study the brain’s role in thinking, memory and other mental processes. They wondered how people remember certain moments from their lives. So they researched what happens in the brain as people watched feature length videos.

Sixteen viewers were asked to note when one scene ended and another began. And those transition spots occurred at the same time that one part of the brain became especially active in more than 260 other viewers of these same movies. That response “was actually quite striking,” Ben-Yakov notes. “I wasn’t expecting it to be this strong and this clear.”

The brain goes to the movies

Ben-Yakov and Henson used data from two earlier projects. Each project had recorded people’s brain activity as they watched videos. While lying in a brain scanner, 15 watched the 1994 movie “Forrest Gump.” Another 253 people watched Alfred Hitchcock’s 1961 television drama, “Bang! You’re Dead.”

Ben-Yakov and Henson then lined up the brain activity in each of these 268 volunteers with the transition points that had been marked by 16 new observers. At those times, activity spiked in one brain structure. Called the hippocampus, it is important for memory and navigation. The researchers also looked at behavior in this part of the brain throughout the full shows.

These movie transitions didn’t always involve jumps to new places or times in a story. One such boundary came near the beginning of “Forrest Gump.” In the scene, Forrest sits quietly on a bench. Suddenly, he blurts out his famous greeting: “Hello. My name’s Forrest. Forrest Gump.”

The hippocampus may have helped slice that continuous bench scene into two events: the before-talking and after-talking periods. Such divisions may help package distinct segments so that they can then be stored as memories, the researchers now conclude.

The Cambridge team reported its findings October 8 in the Journal of Neuroscience.

Of course, the brain does not necessarily respond to films in exactly the same way as it does to events in someone’s own life, Ben-Yakov says. Someone’s hippocampus might behave somewhat differently. And that’s important, she says, because “our goal is to understand real life.”

====== 18 ========

The immune system has a say in how hard ‘teen’ rats play

Teenage boys like to wrestle. They bite at each other and will pin the other one down. But as they get older, this playful wrestling turns into a more dignified sniffing, and occasionally, a real fight. These aren’t human boys, of course. They’re rats. And a new study has shown that immune cells in their brains play some role in directing the transition from rough-and-tumble play to serious adult behaviors.

Young female rats don’t show nearly as much rough-and-tumble play as the guys their age. They don’t show the same style of style of brain development, either. That difference could help scientists learn more about how people’s brains mature — and what generally makes boys and girls behave so differently.

When humans hit adolescence, their behaviors change. As children, they valued adult attention most. As teens? Friends matter more. Teen rats are the same way, Ashley Kopec notes. She’s a neuroscientist — someone who studies the brain. She works at Harvard Medical School in Boston, Mass. “Adolescents [even rats] seem to be trying to get out on their own,” she says. Playing with friends is a part of that. “In rodents there’s a time when social play increases.”

And boy rats like to brawl. “It’s super cute,” Kopec says. “It’s rough-and-tumble wrestling.” The rats jump around the cage, pin each other down and nip at each other. Some of this pinning and nipping might be a way to practice attacking and defending themselves. Male rats will need such skills as they head out into the adult world.

It’s clear the play is also fun — and for a good reason. It activates dopamine (DOAP-uh-meen). This is a chemical that serves as a messenger between cells. Dopamine, in particular, is a messenger associated with things that feel good. It spikes in an area of the brain called the nucleus accumbens (NOO-klee-us Uh-KUM-benz) when a substance (such as food) or activity (such as play) is pleasing. In adult rats, play gives a brief dopamine zing. As they get older, however, the spikes in dopamine taper off. And now the antics aren’t so much fun. But in teen rats, the wrestling — and the dopamine surge — never get old.

Calling in the brain cops

Of course, adolescent rats eventually become adults. Teen boys go from all-night adventures to middle-aged dads who drone on about mowing the lawn. Rats go from the joy of rat wrestling to the dignified sniffed greetings of the old and boring. This means their brains must change. Their dopamine systems, in particular, must simmer down with time. Kopec wondered if immune cells in the brain might play a role in this.

Male ‘teenage’ rats love to wrestle, and the immune system might help explain why they eventually grow out of it. CathyKeifer/iStockPhoto

The immune system works to keep the body from harm. It does this by chomping up dangerous bacteria and chasing down viral invaders. The precious brain is protected from most of this activity. It’s carefully tucked away behind a barrier to give it extra armor and prevent germs from getting in. But that extra barrier means that while most germy threats can’t invade, the body’s immune system also can’t get in. So the brain also has its own separate immune police force. It’s made up of cells called microglia (My-kroh-GLEE-uh).

These cells patrol the brain. They chow down on dead neurons (nerve cells in the brain) and swallow up invading germs. They also trim the ends of healthy neurons. Neurons are specialized cells with ends that connect to each other. They pass messages back and forth. Those conversations help us not only learn movements and store memories, but also do so much more. Such cellular connections change over time. Some become stronger. Others weaken. Eventually, some old connections aren’t needed anymore. So microglia step in as the neurons’ personal barbers. They prune off old, less useful, connections at the ends of cells so that new ones can emerge.

Of course the microglia need to know which neurons are due for a cellular styling and which aren’t. To do that, they rely on a chemical called complement three, or C3. Scientists aren’t always sure what makes a neuron know when a bit of it needs to go. But when a neuron is ready for a trim, it puts out a C3 “flag.”

“Microglia can identify C3,” Kopec explains. When one of these cells spots a C3 tag, it heads to the neuron and trims off the bit with the flag.

Kopec knew that as animals (including people) are developing, connections between neurons get trimmed and restyled. She and her colleagues began to wonder if microglia might be responsible for at least some of that.

Microglia chomp down dopamine

To find out, Kopec’s team looked at groups of rats of different ages. Life comes at rats fast. They grow from kids to adults in a matter of weeks. Age is measured in post-natal days, or the number of days after birth. Male rats hit their peak playfulness at 30 days after birth. Females grow up even faster. They hit peak wrestling time at post-natal day 22 (though they don’t ever wrestle as much). That’s 8 days earlier than males.

So Kopec’s team looked at rats between 22 and 54 days after birth. (That’s about the equivalent of a human teen.) They were especially interested in a dopamine receptor known as D1.

Receptors are parts of a cell that “sniff out” chemical messengers and make cells take action based on what they “smell.” D1 receptors in the nucleus accumbens help cells take action in response to a dopamine surge. But Kopec and her colleagues found that as male rats move into their late teen years (er, days), neurons in their nucleus accumbens have fewer and fewer D1 receptors.

The red dot here is the nucleus accumbens, an area of the brain that shows a lot of activity when things (like play!) feel good. Geof B. Hall/Wikimedia Commons ( CC0

Where did those D1 receptors go? To find out, Kopec’s team used a drug known as NIF. (That’s short for neutrophil inhibitor factor.) This drug blocks the C3 tags in a rat’s brain. When NIF was present, the microglia could not spot C3. So they no longer trimmed the neurons. The D1 receptors remained, and that meant that the nucleus accumbens cells retained their ability to sense dopamine. The treated male rats now played just as rough as before, even though they should have been too old for such scuffles.

This research, then, showed microglia normally view the C3 flags on neurons as a call to chow down on a dinner of D1 receptors. And as D1 levels disappear, so will the male rats’ appetite for rough play.

But in females, it was a completely different story. Their D1 receptor levels were already low by post-natal day 22. Their rough-and-tumble days were over. So blocking microglia had no effect on how hard they played.

These results suggest that by chewing up D1 receptors, the brain’s immune system transforms adolescent male rats into chilled-out adults. Kopec and her team published their findings September 25 in Nature Communications.

Growing up rat

What makes the study especially interesting is that it links the way rats’ microglia chew up D1 receptors with how they play, says Ukpong Eyo. He’s a neuroscientist at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. But, he asks, are microglia chewing up living cells’ D1 receptors? Or do the microglia only cut off the cellular ends that were already dead or dying? Put another way, are the immune cells helping to control brain development — or just taking out the trash?

“The play behavior is interesting because it shows sex differences,” says Kathryn Lenz. She’s a neuroscientist at Ohio State University in Columbus. This play is “also a social behavior,” she notes. “We know boys engage in more rough-and-tumble play than girls, [and] we know that’s due to hormones.” But hormones don’t act alone, she points out. And the role of microglia is especially exciting, she says, because the brain’s immune cells are activated by stress. Those cells also can play a role in mental illnesses.

Two young female rats play. Female rats never wrestle as much as males. And they grow out of it much faster. A.Coopersville/YouTube

Understanding more about the way microglia shape behavior in teens — both in rats and people — could help scientists understand why some mental illnesses (such as anxiety) tend to develop in adolescence. It also might eventually help explain why some disorders, such as autism or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, are more common in males than in females, Lenz says.

Kopec now knows that microglia are trimming male rat brains as they develop. But what about in females? The role of those cells in them remains a mystery that she’s determined to solve. “Every time I look further at the females, they always have some kind of confusing result,” she says. They may have other behaviors, ones that matter much more than rough-and-tumble wrestling. Kopec just needs to figure out what to look for.

====== 19 ========

California’s Carr Fire spawned a true fire tornado

What’s scarier than a tornado? How about a tornado made of fire? On July 26, 2018, the so-called Carr Fire outside Redding, Calif., spawned the strongest tornado in state history: a fire tornado, or firenado.

This rare and terrifying phenomenon was only the second true fire tornado in recorded history — and the first witnessed in the United States.

Wildfires have become an all too common phenomenon in California. The region’s low humidity and scarce rainfall make it an environment ripe for blazes. In fact, much of the state should burn naturally every 50 to 100 years or so. An occasional fire can even help the ecosystem. It’s a way for nature to restore nutrients to the soil while cleansing the landscape of an overgrowth of moisture-robbing vegetation. But people have been building homes in these regions. So when a forest goes up in flames, so too can houses. (Witness the estimated 6,000-plus homes destroyed by the so-called Camp Fire, this month, in Paradise, Calif.)

The Carr Fire was first reported on July 23, west of Redding, Calif. An RV trailer suffered a flat tire, which caused the wheel’s metal rim to scrape against the roadway. Authorities believe that sent sparks flying, USA Today reported in August.

Dry debris nearby caught fire. Eventually, this blaze consumed an area three times the size of Washington, D.C., according to CalFire. That’s the state’s wildfire-fighting agency. The flames spread from forest to neighborhoods. And by the time it finally died out, the fire had claimed 7 lives and 1,604 homes and other structures.

But the truly remarkable part: This inferno grew so strong that it unleashed a massive tornado.

Wildfires can make for wild weather

Roughly half of all land burned in U.S. wildfires in 2017 was in California, Montana, Nevada, Texas and Alaska. That’s according to a November 2018 report by the Insurance Information Institute. And because of California’s large and dense population, wildfires in this state are among the most costly, both in terms of damage and lives lost.

Much of California is dry almost year-round. Large parts of it also get quite hot. Winter is usually the wettest season. That’s when big Pacific storms carry the Pineapple Express — a river of moisture that develops in the middle atmosphere. These storms target the California coast with a seeming firehose of moisture. Those rains fuel the growth of vegetation.

The Carr Fire outside Redding, Calif., burned for more than five weeks. Among the more notable features of this immense and deadly fire was its generation of a true tornado. Indeed, it was the biggest twister in California history. USFS Pacific Southwest Region 5 ( Brenna Jones,USFS Pacific Southwest Region 5 ( CC BY 2.0 )/ Flickr

In the spring and summer, winds from the west pull in cool air from the Pacific Ocean. That gives San Francisco its famous fog. These winds also force moist air up the mountains. But when it sinks back down on the other side of the state’s mountains, that air dries out. This desert-like air can suck the moisture out of anything it touches. So any dead plant matter begins to dry up. By mid-summer, much of the ground throughout the state is littered with brittle sticks and leaves. This becomes a powder keg of fuel for a fire to gobble up. Lightning, unattended campfires, discarded cigarettes and sparks from vehicle tailpipes — all of those can ignite the dry forest debris.

Farther inland, winds swirl clockwise around a semi-permanent system of high pressure that parks itself near Reno, Nevada. This sends occasional spurts of wind and dry air westward through the Santa Ana Mountains and Sierra Nevada. These so-called Santa Ana winds can top 97 kilometers (60 miles) per hour. They dry the air out and can fan the flames of a wildfire.

If they get big enough, wildfires can create their own weather. The largest of them suck in so much air that the entering winds can flow at speeds of up to 130 kilometers (80 miles) per hour. These winds also supply fires with plenty of oxygen, which the blazes need to burn.

Once in a while, a wildfire will reach so high into the atmosphere that it causes rain. That happens when the warm, steamy updraft carries water vapor to a level where this gas condenses and falls out as liquid droplets.

Some wildfires even produce lightning. Soot, smoke, ash and tree-formed hydrocarbons can become electrically charged as they interact with ice crystals above 7,600 meters (some 25,000 feet). The ice takes on a positive charge. Raindrops become negatively charged. This charge-producing phenomenon has a really long name: triboelectrification (TRY-boh-ee-LEK-trih-fih-KAY-shun). When the electrical charges between the ice and rain grow large enough, a lightning bolt can pass between them.

The Carr Fire churned up some particularly wild weather — a true fire tornado. And one key factor behind that was the speed of the storm’s updraft.

The evolution of a fiery ‘tornado’

The National Weather Service, or NWS, releases weather balloons to collect a vertical profile of the temperatures, humidity, wind speeds and barometric pressure as they rise through the atmosphere. One of these daily soundings was taken with a balloon sent up before sunrise from Oakland, Calif., on July 26.

The balloon’s instruments detected a thin layer of warm air at about 1,000 meters (3,280 feet). Known as an inversion layer, it tends to hold air near to the ground from rising high into the atmosphere. In the Carr Fire, this “cap” trapped hot smoke close to the ground.

As energy continued to build beneath the inversion, the hot air pushed upward. That caused the cap to rise… and rise… and rise some more. This occurred all morning and afternoon. Around dinnertime, those hot gases had lifted the inversion layer to right around 6,100 meters (20,000 feet).

Then, around 7:20 p.m., the fire won. Two upwardly rising plumes of hot smoke and gas punctured through the cap. Within a half hour, these updrafts soared explosively — doubling in height to 12,800 meters (42,000 feet). That’s above the altitude at which jet airliners fly.

When the updrafts busted through the cap, they spanned multiple layers of the atmosphere. Wind shear shoved the budding storm clouds in many different directions. There also was plenty of rotational energy in the atmosphere — what's known as vorticity. In short order, he towering updrafts started to spin.

As the fires grew in height, the rotation of winds within them became more intense. As this rotating column of air was vertically stretched the conservation of angular momentum came into play. Think of an ice skater twirling. As she draws in her arms, she spins faster. The same thing happened here. The rapid doubling in height of the updrafts stretched the columns of spinning air. As their radius shrunk, they rotated faster. Before long, the fire clouds were spinning like a top.

It was the southern storm “cell” — one individual updraft — that produced the fiery tornado. At times this cell approached 0.8 kilometer (a half mile) wide. It became the first documented firenado in U.S. history.

A fire tornado is a true tornado. It’s born from rotating clouds and then reaches down from the clouds. Its winds are incredibly powerful, and it can have an impressive, potentially deadly impact. Plus, a firenado is incredibly rare.

News accounts might give you a different impression, though. They sometimes use the term firenado to describe something very different — a firewhirl. These are much, much smaller than a firenado.

Such small whirling masses of air usually are no more than a meter or two (up to 8 feet) across. Wildfires can spew these whirls of twirling, fiery debris by the dozen. One may even form over backyard campfires. They tend to have the same strength as leaf swirls on a gusty, fall day, and last less than a minute. More importantly, they’re not connected to a cloud. They just spin up from the ground in response to intense heat at the surface.

How strong was the Redding firenado?

After receiving reports of significant damage in the wake of the Redding fire’s tornado, the NWS Sacramento office sent out a team of meteorologists to investigate. One NWS tweet on August 2 noted that: “Preliminary reports include the collapse of high tension power lines, uprooted trees, and the complete removal of tree bark.” Its experts also had found evidence of winds in excess of 230 kilometers (143 miles) per hour.

The event met the American Meteorological Society’s definition of a tornado. AMS characterizes a tornado as a “rotating column of air, in contact with the surface, pendant from a cumuliform cloud.” The word cumuliform means a cloud with a powerful updraft. The July fire tornado was rooted in the massive cloud — one that were rotating. It also was fed by an intense updraft. And it was attached to a rapidly-growing fire-generated “cumuliform” cloud. It was, in fact, a cumulonimbus cloud.

Scientists use the Enhanced Fujita Scale to rank the strength — wind speed and destructive force — of tornadoes on a 0 to 5 scale. The Carr Fire’s tornado was a powerful EF-3. Most of the thousand or so U.S. tornadoes that touch down each year are EF-0’s or EF-1’s. Fewer than 6 in every 100 reach an EF-3 or higher.

California had seen two EF-3's in the 1970s. But neither was more than 60 meters (200 feet) wide. The Carr Fire tornado was 12 times that broad. Indeed, the Redding firenado was the strongest tornado of any type ever recorded in California.

The first recorded fire tornado was Down Under

On January 18, 2003, lightning sparked a wildfire near Canberra, Australia. Its smoke produced a cumulonimbus cloud. And like the system in Redding, the clouds grew into a supercell thunderstorm.

The Australian wildfire produced winds of up to 130 kilometers (80 miles) per hour. This challenged efforts to curb its growth. Jason Sharples is a fire scientist at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia. He and three other scientists described this fire’s tornado in a 2013 paper. At some point, they note, clouds associated with the violent fire began to rotate. This spawned a terrifying twister. It was even worse than California’s. Though it stayed mainly over open countryside, it did level one neighborhood.

Jim Venn, a resident of the suburb of Wanniassa, captured the twister in a photograph from his back deck. The scientists then used math to analyze the photo to estimate the size of the cyclone’s rotating structure. They gauged the updraft speed of the tornado at an enormous 200 to 250 kilometers (124 to 155 miles) per hour. That’s enough to lift and toss a vehicle. It may come as no surprise, then, that this funnel was able to throw the 7-metric-ton (15,000 pound) roof of a water tower more than 0.8 kilometer (a half mile).

The tornado, which touched down six times, was also captured on video. The scientists argue it “meets the definition of a tornado.” It also appears to stand alone, with the Redding event, as the only two true tornadoes born of fire.

The 2003 Mount Arawang fire tornado in Australia. The emergence of its funnel occurred as the videographer was shooting the event. The firenado exhibited a strong upward motion within the whirling vortex. The Weather Channel

And now come reports that another firenado may have sprung to life on November 9. It was at the edge of the deadly Woolsey Fire in Malibu, Calif. Something tore up trees and pulled the posts for power lines out of the ground. And video showed a clockwise-spinning vortex.

That rotation, however, is opposite to the spin direction of most tornadoes in the northern hemisphere. A later analysis of Doppler radar now suggests this furious funnel may have been a landspout — a twister-like vortex with a tornado’s strength. This blazing cyclone appeared to contain winds of 129 to 153 kilometers (80 to 95 miles) per hour. It likely formed in response to small eddies (circling winds) moving downhill and gathering strength. Unlike most full-fledged tornadoes, this twister’s circulation was shallow. It gathered and lofted enough loose debris to be picked up on radar. Though scary, it wouldn’t have been a firenado.

====== 20 ========

Plants don’t grow well when always on high alert

(for more about Power Words, click here)

Arabidopsis thaliana A weedy mustard plant frequently used to study the growth and behavior of plants. It is so commonly used by plant scientists that it has come to be called the “lab rat” of green-plant studies.

biology The study of living things. The scientists who study them are known as biologists.

bug The slang term for an insect. Sometimes it’s even used to refer to a germ.

carbon The chemical element having the atomic number 6. It is the physical basis of all life on Earth. Carbon exists freely as graphite and diamond. It is an important part of coal, limestone and petroleum, and is capable of self-bonding, chemically, to form an enormous number of chemically, biologically and commercially important molecules.

carbon dioxide (or CO 2 ) A colorless, odorless gas produced by all animals when the oxygen they inhale reacts with the carbon-rich foods that they’ve eaten. Carbon dioxide also is released when organic matter burns (including fossil fuels like oil or gas). Carbon dioxide acts as a greenhouse gas, trapping heat in Earth’s atmosphere. Plants convert carbon dioxide into oxygen during photosynthesis, the process they use to make their own food.

chemical A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H 2 O. Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are the result of various reactions between different compounds.

crop (in agriculture) A type of plant grown intentionally grown and nurtured by farmers, such as corn, coffee or tomatoes. Or the term could apply to the part of the plant harvested and sold by farmers.

defense (in biology) A natural protective action taken or chemical response that occurs when a species confront predators or agents that might harm it. (adj. defensive)

DNA (short for deoxyribonucleic acid) A long, double-stranded and spiral-shaped molecule inside most living cells that carries genetic instructions. It is built on a backbone of phosphorus, oxygen, and carbon atoms. In all living things, from plants and animals to microbes, these instructions tell cells which molecules to make.

ecology See A branch of biology that deals with the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical surroundings. A scientist who works in this field is called an ecologist.

gene (adj. genetic) A segment of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for a cell’s production of a protein. Offspring inherit genes from their parents. Genes influence how an organism looks and behaves.

insect A type of arthropod that as an adult will have six segmented legs and three body parts: a head, thorax and abdomen. There are hundreds of thousands of insects, which include bees, beetles, flies and moths.

mutation (v. mutate) Some change that occurs to a gene in an organism’s DNA. Some mutations occur naturally. Others can be triggered by outside factors, such as pollution, radiation, medicines or something in the diet. A gene with this change is referred to as a mutant.

pesticide A chemical or mix of compounds used to kill insects, rodents or other organisms harmful to cultivated plants, pets or livestock; or unwanted organisms that infest homes, offices, farm buildings and other protected structures.

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences A prestigious journal publishing original scientific research, begun in 1914. The journal's content spans the biological, physical, and social sciences. Each of the more than 3,000 papers it publishes each year, now, are not only peer reviewed but also approved by a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.

protein A compound made from one or more long chains of amino acids. Proteins are an essential part of all living organisms. They form the basis of living cells, muscle and tissues; they also do the work inside of cells. Among the better-known, stand-alone proteins are the hemoglobin (in blood) and the antibodies (also in blood) that attempt to fight infections. Medicines frequently work by latching onto proteins.

species A group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce.

vein Part of the body’s circulation system, these tubes usually carrying blood toward the heart.

viable Able to live and survive. (in biology) Able to survive and/or live a normal lifespan. (in engineering) Something that should work or operate according to plan, as in a “viable concept.”

weed (in botany) A plant growing wild in, around — and sometimes smothering over — valued plants, such as crops or landscape species (including lawn grasses, flowers and shrubs). Often a plant becomes such a botanical bully when it enters a new environment with no natural predators or controlling conditions, such as hard frosts.

====== 21 ========

Super-water-repellent surfaces can generate energy

Scientists knew that they could generate electricity by running salt water across an electrically charged surface. But they could never get the process to make enough energy to be useful. Now engineers have figured out a way to do that. Their trick: Make the water flow over that surface much more quickly. They achieved this by making the surface super water repellent.

Prab Bandaru is a mechanical engineer and materials scientist at the University of California San Diego. His team’s innovation grew out of frustration. None of the other things they tried had worked. One “spur of the moment thing … just happened to work,” he says with a laugh. It was hardly planned.

Scientists describe a surface that repels water as hydrophobic (HY-droh-FOH-bik). The term comes from the Greek words for water (hydro) and hating (phobic). The UCSD team describes the material it uses as super-hydrophobic.

Their new energy system starts with table salt, or sodium chloride. As its name suggests, this salt is made from bonded atoms of sodium and chlorine. When the atoms react to make salt, an electron from a sodium atom breaks off and attaches to a chlorine atom. This turns each neutral atom into a type of charged atom called an ion. The sodium atom now has a positive electrical charge. Opposite charges attract. So that sodium ion now is strongly attracted to the chlorine atom, which now has a negative charge.

When the salt is dissolved in water, the water molecules cause the association between the sodium and chlorine ions to loosen. As this salt water flows over a surface with a negative charge, its positively charged sodium ions will be attracted to it and slow down. Meanwhile, its negatively charged chlorine ions will keep flowing. This breaks the bond between the two atoms. And that releases the energy that had been stored within it.

The challenge was to get the water to move quickly enough. “When the chlorine flows away fast, then the relative velocity between the slow sodium and the fast chlorine is enhanced,” Bandaru explains. And that will increase the electric power it generates.

The team described its innovation on October 3 in Nature Communications.

This use of a super-water-repellent surface to generate energy is “really, really exciting,” says Daniel Tartakovsky. He’s an engineer at Stanford University who was not involved in the research.

The innovation

Other researchers have tried to use water repellency to boost the energy production of a salt-water electric generator. They did it by adding tiny grooves to the surface. When the water flowed over the grooves, it encountered less friction as it traveled over the air. Yet even though the water flowed faster, the energy production didn’t increase very much. And that, Bandaru says, is because the air also cut the water’s exposure to the negatively charged surface.

His team tried different ways to get around this problem. They tried making the surface more porous. Their idea was to speed the water’s flow by providing even more air at the surface. “We were in the lab, thinking, ‘Why isn’t this working?’” he recalls. “Then we said, ‘Why don’t we put liquid inside [the surface]?’”

It was just a brainstorming idea. The researchers hadn’t done any calculations to figure out if it might work. They just tried replacing the air in the surface’s grooves with oil. And it worked! “We were very surprised,” Bandaru says. “We got a very, very high result for the [electrical] voltage.” To probe whether they’d made some mistake, Bandaru says, they quickly realized “‘We have to try this again!’”

They did several more times. And each time, the results came out the same. “It was reproducible,” Bandaru says. This reassured them that their initial success was no accident.

Later, they examined the physics of the liquid-filled surface. Recalls Bandaru, “It was one of those ‘Duh’ moments when we realized, ‘Of course it had to work.’”

Why it works

Like air, oil repels water. Some oils are far more hydrophobic than air — and can hold a negative charge. Bandaru’s team tested five oils to find which offered the best mix of water repellency and negative charge. Another advantage to using oil: It doesn’t wash away when the water flows over it because a physical force known as surface tension holds it to the grooves.

The team’s newly reported tests offer proof that the concept works. Other experiments will need to test how well it might work on a larger scale — one that might deliver a useful amount of electricity.

But the technique might find use even in small-scale applications. For instance, it might be used as a power source for “lab-on-a-chip” assays. Here, tiny devices perform tests on very small amounts of fluid, such a drop of water or blood. On a larger scale, it might be used to generate electricity from ocean waves, or even using the wastes moving through water-treatment plants. “It doesn’t have to be salt water,” Bandaru explains. “Maybe there is wastewater that contains ions. As long as there are ions in the liquid, one can use this scheme for generating voltage.”

Using a liquid like oil to speed up the flow of water while also conducting electricity might greatly improve the efficiency of such power systems. “If it works,” Tartakovsky says, it might even offer “a big breakthrough in battery technology.”

====== 22 ========

T. rex pulverized bones with an incredible amount of force

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A powerful bite, strong teeth and repeated crunching. This is what allowed Tyrannosaurus rex to pulverize the bones of its prey. That’s the conclusion of a new analysis of the giant predator’s chomp.

Bones have an inner cavity containing marrow and other nutrients. To access those goodies, some animals crunch through the dense outer protective layer of bone. Most do so by clamping their jaws together to crush the bone. Some meat-eating mammals, like spotted hyenas and gray wolves, can do this. But bone-crushing is unknown among living reptiles. Their upper and lower teeth simply don’t fit together in a way that allows them to clamp. Instead, most modern reptilian predators swallow bones whole to get at the nutrients.

Fossil evidence suggests tyrannosaurs, including T. rex, somehow pulverized the bones of their prey. But their teeth didn’t fit together like mammals’ do. So how did they crush those bones?

Paul Gignac and Gregory Erickson teamed up to figure this out. Gignac studies body structure as an anatomist at Oklahoma State University in Tulsa. And Erickson is a vertebrate paleontologist at Florida State University in Tallahassee. That means he specializes in fossils of animals with backbones.

Together, the two looked at fossils of the teeth from T. rex and at this dino’s prey. The duo also measured the bite strength of living dino relatives. For that, they studied birds — the only living dinosaurs. They also studied crocodiles, which are dinosaurs’ closest living relatives. From these, the researchers estimated the chomping force of a T. rex bite. They also predicted how much pressure the dinos’ teeth could exert at their tips.

My what big choppers. This closeup shows the bite of Sue, a T. rex skeleton on display at Chicago’s Field Museum. Jill Sakai

A single bite could deliver a force up to 34,000 newtons, they now estimate. (A newton is a measure of force.) That’s more than twice the bite strength of a croc, the strongest living chomper. They also showed that the dinos’ teeth could exert intense pressure at their tips. That pressure could reach up to 3 billion pascals, the scientists estimate. (A pascal measures pressure, or the amount of force applied on an area.)

T. rex could crush bones thanks to that bite strength and the shape of its teeth, the scientists say. The massive pressure from those teeth helped create cracks that weakened bones. T. rex would also chomp over and over in the same spot to break bones.

These advantages may have helped the predator get the most out of its prey. Gignac and Erickson described their findings on October 20 here, in New Mexico, at the annual meeting of the Society for Vertebrate Paleontology.

====== 23 ========

R.I.P. Kepler, the planet-hunting telescope

The Kepler space telescope can no longer search for planets orbiting other stars. After 9½ years, NASA’s premier exoplanet-hunter is out of gas.

NASA officials announced the mission’s end at a news conference on October 30.

“Because of fuel exhaustion, the Kepler spacecraft has reached the end of its service life,” said Charlie Sobeck. He is a project system engineer. Sobeck works at NASA’s Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, Calif. “While this is a sad event, we are by no means unhappy with this remarkable machine.”

Kepler’s discoveries have forever changed the way astronomers think about planets in other solar systems. Known as exoplanets, only about 350 were known to exist before Kepler launched in 2009. And nearly all of these were the size of Jupiter or larger.

As of this week, there are now more than 3,800 known exoplanets. And Kepler discovered 2,720 of them. The spacecraft found planets in all shapes, sizes and family structures. For instance, it found seven planets orbiting one star. Some planets had two suns. Other planets orbited their star at jaunty angles. And five that Kepler found orbiting one star were more than twice as old as Earth. “These planets formed at the beginning of the formation of our galaxy,” says William Borucki. “Imagine what life might be like on such planets.” Until he retired in 2015, this astronomer was Kepler’s principal investigator.

Astronomers also have used Kepler’s exoplanet tally to predict that every one of the hundreds of billions of stars in the Milky Way should have at least one planet. And scientists suspect that billions of these planets might have the right size and temperatures to support life.

Here’s a chart graphing the number of exoplanets discovered over time. Kepler turned up the vast majority of them (yellow). Jessie Dotson And Wendy Stenzel/Ames Research Center/NASA

Second death notice for the spacecraft

Kepler was declared dead once before. In 2013, the telescope lost use of a second of its four reaction wheels. These devices helped to keep the telescope pointed steadily at a selected patch of the sky. That consistent pointing was crucial for Kepler’s planet-hunting strategy. It worked by spotting a slight dip in stars’ light as planets cross in front of them. Five years ago, this seemed to mark the end of Kepler.

But engineers soon revived the telescope. They arranged for it to work in a new observing mode. It now used the pressure of sunlight on Kepler’s solar panels to keep it pointing straight.

“I always felt like it was the little spacecraft that could,” said astronomer Jessie Dotson. She’s a Kepler project scientist at NASA Ames. “It always did everything we asked of it,” she said, “and sometimes more. That’s a great thing to have in a spacecraft.”

Kepler’s official demise came two weeks ago. That’s when the telescope’s fuel pressure dropped by three-quarters in a matter of hours, Sobeck said. Before it shut down, NASA had Kepler send all of its remaining data back to Earth. “In the end,” he observed, “we didn’t have a drop of fuel left.”

Kepler’s legacy lives on, however. TESS, or the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, launched this past spring. And this planet-hunting telescope has already spotted some exoplanets.

For its final acts, the Kepler team will remotely turn off the telescope’s radio transmitters. The team will also turn off protective systems that might allow those transmitters to be turned back on. “The spacecraft will then be left on its own to drift away in a safe and stable orbit around the sun,” Sobeck said.

====== 24 ========

Only a small fraction of space has been searched for aliens

Scientists have been searching for signals of aliens for 60 years. So far, they’ve had no luck in finding any. So you’d be forgiven for thinking, “Where is everyone?”

In fact, the lack of success may just reflect not looking widely enough.

A new calculation shows that if space is an ocean, we’ve barely dipped in a toe. The volume of observable space combed so far for E.T. is comparable to searching a volume the size of a large hot tub for evidence of fish in Earth’s oceans. That’s according to Jason Wright and his colleagues. Wright is an astronomer at Pennsylvania State University in University Park. His team presented its calculations in a paper posted online September 19 at arXiv.org.

“If you looked at a random hot tub’s worth of water in the ocean, you wouldn’t always expect a fish,” Wright says.

Still, that’s far more space searched than had been calculated back in 2010. That estimate had been done for the 50th anniversary of the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, or SETI.

SETI programs have searched for messages from aliens in radio waves. This is the same range of frequencies over which music and news are sent to your car. But it’s also the range that scientists think is easiest to monitor for communication from across the universe.

In the 2010 work, SETI pioneer Jill Tarter and her colleagues imagined a “cosmic haystack.” It was made not of hay, but of naturally occurring radio waves. The researchers considered what it would be like to sift through that haystack for the proverbial needle. That needle would be an artificial, alien beacon. Her haystack went beyond physical space. It also included factors such as a possible signal’s duration, frequency, variations and strength. And it accounted for the sensitivity of radio telescopes on Earth that would attempt to detect a signal.

Tarter’s group concluded that searches had covered about a drinking glass’s worth of seawater. That would hardly be enough to conclude an ocean is fishless.

Wright worked with his colleagues Shubham Kanodia and Emily Lubar to update Tarter’s calculation. They devised a slightly different haystack. It included factors like the frequency and bandwidth aliens might broadcast in. It also included more recent SETI searches such as the Breakthrough Listen project. It’s the largest project yet to search for signs of alien life.

The researchers converted the volume of space to liters of ocean for the sake of analogy. And SETI has covered the equivalent of 7,700 liters out of 1.335 billion trillion liters of water in Earth’s oceans, they now conclude. That’s like taking a hot-tub’s worth of water out of the ocean. You might find a fish in there, but if you don’t, it would not be all that surprising.

“We’re finally getting to the point today … that we have a chance of finding something, depending on how much there is to find,” Wright says. So there’s no point in giving up the search yet.

====== 25 ========

The movie ‘First Man’ captures early spaceflight's terror

Neil Armstrong is famous for being the first man on the moon. But the movie about him, First Man, is not entirely about that. This biopic, which opened October 12, follows about eight years of Armstrong’s life and spends only about eight minutes depicting the lunar surface. Many movies on the space race focus on things like the triumphant ticker tape parades that hailed the men after their successful flights. First Man focuses instead on the terror, grief and heartache that led to that one small step.

“It’s a very different movie and storyline than people expect,” says James Hansen. He wrote the 2005 biography of Armstrong that shares the film’s name. He was also a consultant on the film.

The story opens in January 1962. It’s shortly before Armstrong’s 2-year-old daughter, Karen, died of a brain tumor. That loss hangs over the rest of the film. It also sets the movie’s surprisingly somber emotional tone. First Man is darker than most space movies. Colors are muted. The music is ominous or absent. A lot of scenes include only ambient sounds. For instance, you may hear only a pen scratching on paper, a glass breaking or a phone clicking into the receiver.

Karen’s death also seems to motivate the rest of Armstrong’s journey. As portrayed by Ryan Gosling, Armstrong never says exactly what motivated him to apply to NASA’s astronaut program. But he may have been trying to get a fresh start while grieving the loss of his young daughter. And without giving too much away, a private moment Armstrong takes at the edge of Little West crater on the moon recalls his enduring bond with her.

Hansen’s book also makes the case that Karen’s death motivated Armstrong’s astronaut career. Armstrong’s oldest son, Rick, was 12 when his father landed on the moon. And he agrees that it’s plausible the death was related. “But it’s not something that he ever really definitively talked about,” Rick Armstrong says.

Armstrong’s reticence about Karen — and almost everything else — is true to life. That’s not all the film got right. Gosling captured the serious side of Armstrong as well as his humor. And as his wife, Janet, Claire Foy “is just amazing,” Rick Armstrong says.

The filmmakers went to great lengths to make the technical aspects of spaceflight historically accurate. The Gemini and Apollo cockpits that Gosling sits in are replicas of the real spacecraft. And he flipped switches and hit buttons that would have controlled real flight. Much of the dialog during space scenes was taken verbatim from NASA’s control room logs, Hansen says.

The result is a good sense of how frightening and risky those early flights were. The spacecraft rattled and creaked like they were about to fall apart. The scene of Armstrong’s flight on the 1966 Gemini 8 mission is terrifying. That flight ended early when the spacecraft spun out of control and almost killed its passengers. The 1967 fire inside the Apollo 1 spacecraft is gruesome. (The fire killed astronauts Ed White, Gus Grissom and Roger Chaffee.)

“We wanted to treat that one with extreme care and love and get it exactly right,” Hansen says. “What we have in that scene, none of it’s made up.”

Meanwhile, present-day astronauts are not immune to harrowing brushes with death. A Russian Soyuz capsule carrying two astronauts malfunctioned on October 11. The astronauts had to evacuate in an alarming “ballistic descent.” NASA is currently talking about when and how to send astronauts back to the moon from American soil. The first commercial-crew astronauts, who will test spacecraft built by Boeing and SpaceX, were announced in August.

First Man is a timely and sobering reminder of the risks involved in taking these giant leaps.

====== 26 ========

Hubble may have spotted a possible ‘exomoon’

There may be a moon the size of Neptune far out in space. It appears to be orbiting a planet in another solar system. Such planets are known as exoplanets. So its moon would be exomoon. If it exists, this orb would challenge ideas of how moons are born.

David Kipping and Alex Teachey spotted signs of the exomoon with the Hubble Space Telescope. Both astronomers work at Columbia University in New York City. The pair pointed the telescope on the star Kepler 1625. Then it watched the star for 40 hours on October 28 and 29, 2017. Earlier, the Kepler space telescope had shown this star had a Jupiter-sized planet. It orbited its sun every 287 days. Scientists spotted the planet from dips in starlight reaching the telescope. Those dips were a darkening of starlight as the planet transited — passed in front of — the star.

But Teachey and Kipping saw something else in the Kepler data: signs of a second dimming. It happened either before or after the planet’s transit. And that second dimming is exactly what astronomers would expect if an exomoon were orbiting the planet.

The astronomers named this possible moon Kepler 1625b i. Informally, they call it Neptmoon. But there was always the chance it could simply be another planet. Or the dimming might reflect some activity on the star. To be sure it really was a moon, the researchers needed more data.

That’s why they turned to Hubble. It is 3.8 times more sensitive to dips in light than Kepler is.

And Hubble also spotted the secondary dip in light after the planet’s 19 hour transit of its star. That transit started 77.8 minutes earlier than expected. This suggested something was tugging gravitationally on the planet. Kipping, Teachey and colleagues reported their finding October 3 in Science Advances.

Both the dip in light and the early transit are consistent with there being a Neptmoon. Still, “we’re not cracking open champagne bottles just yet,” Teachey said in an Oct. 1 news conference. His team wants to check with Hubble again. Teachey said they might try in May 2019. That’s the next time the planet transits Kepler 1625.

René Heller is an astrophysicist at the Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research in Göttingen, Germany. He finds the new analysis of the transit data impressive. Still, he says, “I remain skeptical” that the exomoon exists. He, too, wants to see another transit and better observations of the star.

One reason to be cautious about the new data is how a moon as large as this one would form. In our solar system, moons have formed in only three ways. Some are knocked out of the body of a planet by an impact. Others form from gas and rock orbiting a planet. A moon might also be grabbed by the planet’s gravity. None of scenarios, however, should result in a moon as large as the new apparent exomoon.

“Kepler 1625b i, if real, would be about 10 times as massive as the mass of all moons and terrestrial planets in [our] solar system combined,” says Heller. “This suggests that this moon would have formed in a completely different way.”

====== 27 ========

Adhesive from trees could make tape more eco-friendly

When you have to wrap a gift or mend the ripped page of a book, you probably reach for a piece of tape. The sticky stuff is everywhere. But tape has a downside. Its adhesive — the substance that makes it stick — is made from a fossil fuel. Now a team of scientists has come up with a greener solution. They’ve made a new glue from chemicals found in trees.

They described their innovation online May 15 in the journal ACS Central Science.

Sticky tape has been around for more than 80 years. It relies on a special kind of glue. As you push down on a piece of tape, the adhesive on the sticky side seals tightly. But you can easily peel it back off. Some adhesives even come off without leaving anything behind.

Tape adhesives are polymers. These are long molecules made from chains of repeating chemical building blocks. To make polymers, researchers can use ingredients from many different sources. One common source is crude oil. Companies today use the hydrocarbons that make up this oil for their tape adhesives.

But crude oil is a fossil fuel. It takes millions of years to develop. So once people extract fossil fuels from the Earth, they can’t be quickly replaced. Processing them also emits pollution, including greenhouse gases.

A team of researchers at the University of Delaware, in Newark, thought they could find a greener option — one friendlier to the environment. “We wanted to make polymers from natural, renewable resources,” says Shu Wang. She is a materials scientist who now works at Bridgestone Americas in Nashville, Tenn.

Lignin is a natural polymer. It makes woody plants strong and stable. And viewed up close, lignin’s chemical structure resembles that of oil’s hydrocarbons. So Wang and her colleagues wondered whether they could substitute plants for oil as a starting ingredient. And their new data confirm that they can.

Turning trees into tape

Wang’s team started with poplar trees. They soaked its wood in chemicals to break the lignin’s long, chain-like molecules into smaller bits. They collected these small pieces. Then they made some minor chemical tweaks. This gave their polymer the chemical traits that they wanted. Finally, the team linked these altered fragments to build new polymers. They designed these chains to mimic the oil-based types used for today’s tape adhesives.

Sludge from paper making contains chemicals that could be used in many ways. Lignin, one of these chemicals, could become a raw ingredient for tape adhesives. U.S. Department of Energy/Flickr

They coated a thin, tape-like piece of plastic with the new glue. Then they conducted “peel tests.” They measured the force needed to peel off the tape after it had been pressed down flat. The researchers compared this test tape to types that you can buy today in the store.

And their new tape performed well. “The force needed to pull up tape with our adhesive on it was similar to the force needed to pull up Scotch tape, or Fisherbrand labeling tape,” Wang says. (Keep in mind, you don’t want tape to peel up too easily. If it does, those ripped book pages won’t stay mended.)

If this new adhesive were someday used for store-bought tapes, it could help the environment in more than one way. Lignin is a waste from making paper and ethanol from trees. So this glue wouldn’t just replace adhesives made from crude oil. It also would prevent lignin from going in the trash.

Thomas Epps III is a chemical engineer and materials scientist at the University of Delaware. He led the team that invented the new glue. “We have taken a renewable material that is normally thrown away,” he notes, “and turned it into something useful.”

Zhuohua Sun agrees. A chemist at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, he did not take part in the new research. “They’ve made something useful from a renewable and widely available material,” he says.

Epps hopes that he and his colleagues can use different plants to make even more adhesives. “Could we use corn or switchgrass as an alternative to trees?” he asks. “If this is possible, it would certainly expand the types of glues we can create.”

====== 28 ========

Tarzan the robot was actually inspired by a sloth

Working on a farm and tending crops can be hot, time consuming and difficult. Engineers have long wanted to build robots to lighten the load. But it has proven no easy task. Robots that walk or roll along the ground can trample delicate plants. And they can get bogged down when rain turns fields muddy. “Tarzan,” however, could overcome some of those challenges. Like its namesake, this new robot swings through the air.

Jonathan Rogers is a robotics expert at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. When it comes to a farm environment, he realized, many robots would face a number of problems. “They tend to get tangled. They tend to get stuck,” he says. What’s more, he notes, “It’s very hard to leave them out for long periods without a human assisting them.”

That’s when inspiration hit him: What if the robot could move above the crops? After all, he realized, “Sloths move from tree branch to tree branch to avoid having to walk around the forest floor.”

Inspired, his team set out to design a robot that could swing hand-to-hand along wires suspended above a field. He named their invention Tarzan, after the jungle-swinging character of books and movie fame. Why not name it for a sloth? “There’s no famous sloths that I know of,” he says. (Apparently, Rogers never watched the 2016 Disney flick, Zootopia. If he had, he’d know about Flash, the “fastest working sloth in the DMV.”)

Drones, another type of robot, fly above the land. Yet these, too, have some disadvantages. A gust of wind can blow them off course, for instance. And if their propellers got too close, drones might damage plants. More importantly, drones have a short battery life. To tackle long tasks, farmers might have to recharge them every half hour or so.

Swinging, in contrast, is an energy-efficient motion. The reason: It makes use of gravity to power movement. This is similar to the way a child can pump their legs to get a playground swing to go higher and higher. With that efficiency, a robot like Tarzan work out in a field for months at a time, without needing to be recharged, Rogers says.

What makes this swinger new

Tarzan is not the first swinging robot, notes Mark Spong. He’s a robotics researcher at the University of Texas at Dallas. Some teams have built robots that do gymnastics. Others imitate primates. He says one inventor even covered a swinging robot in fur to make it look like an orangutan. But what’s new, he says, is using swinging motion to save energy — and the idea of building a wire structure to move around above crops.

“When you’re out in the field and can’t plug into a wall socket, energy is really important,” he points out. “These [robots] can live out there and hang around and swing when they need to, maybe even recharge with solar cells.”

Rogers first envisioned that Tarzan could help farmers monitor crops with sensors and cameras. But future versions could do other work as well. They might deliver water to a particular thirsty plant or fertilize one that needs a nutritional boost. And adding a third “hand” could allow such an automaton to harvest fruits and vegetables.

Eventually the robot could move off the farm and into the city, Rogers says, doing jobs such as inspecting power lines or crawling around wires to move traffic sensors and security cameras from place to place.

While Tarzan has shown it has what it takes to swing around the lab, Rogers says the next step is to test the robot in the field. “We really want to get this robot crawling around networks of cables,” he says.

====== 29 ========

New tech helps deaf-blind people ‘watch’ TV

You may enjoy TV — as do many people with hearing or visual disabilities. But those who are both deaf and blind need special help to follow along. Now an innovative technology is turning television signals into a form that deaf-blind people can understand.

Deaf people can’t hear. But they can use closed captioning to read subtitles of the words spoken on TV. Blind people can’t see. But they can make use of visual description in voice-over comments that describe what’s happening on the TV screen. Neither method, however, works for people who are both deaf and blind. That makes it harder for them to “watch” television shows or programs.

Roughly 45,000 to 50,000 deaf-blind people live in the United States, according to the National Center on Deaf-Blindness in Monmouth, Ore. By that center’s count, almost 10,000 of them are under age 22. Thousands more deaf-blind people live elsewhere around the world.

Ángel García Crespo is a computer engineer at Carlos III University of Madrid in Spain. His group has invented a new way for deaf-blind people to “watch” TV. He unveiled the technology at a conference, last year, in Aveiro, Portugal. The team went on to describe what they'd done in a paper, earlier this year.

The idea for the system grew out of previous work by García Crespo's group. The team had already worked on making audiovisual materials accessible to people with either vision or hearing disabilities. But the group wanted to help people with both challenges. So they asked some deaf-blind people what would help.

“We heard from them that they would like to know, without intermediaries, what is said in the TV newscasts,” García Crespo says. In other words, the deaf-blind people didn’t want to always need someone else to tell them what was going on. That sent the team brainstorming.

Getting technologies to work together

Deaf-blind people rely on their sense of touch to communicate. One way to get info is to have someone on hand — literally. A deaf-blind person can get and give information through touch-based hand signals with another person. But it isn’t always “handy” to have someone else around.

An innovative system can let deaf-blind people “watch” television in real time on their own. Audio and video information from the TV is sent to a machine called a refreshable braille display so deaf-blind people can read it with their fingers. Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

People who can’t see can also get and send information with a braille line, better known as a refreshable braille display. The braille system uses patterns of raised dots to stand for letters and numbers. A refreshable braille display is an electronic machine with a changeable braille display. Dots or pins rise up or drop down based on electronic information sent to the machine. With such a portable device, someone who cannot see a screen can still read email or other information from a computer.

The new system converts TV signals to data that a refreshable braille display can use.

“Key to the system is the possibility of using subtitles to collect TV information,” García Crespo explains. “Subtitles travel with the image and the audio in electromagnetic waves that we do not see. But an electronic system can capture those waves. That is what we do.”

First, a computer program, or app, pulls out the subtitles and visual descriptions from the broadcast signal. The system then combines the information and converts both into data for braille. “No one had done this before,” García Crespo notes.

Now another app gets to work. It sends the data out to people’s refreshable braille displays on demand. “This is done in real time, in less than a second,” García Crespo says. This lets a deaf-blind person “watch” TV as it is broadcast. The system will work with all types of refreshable braille displays, as long as there is a Bluetooth connection available.

Currently, the system is only used in Europe. Teams need to tweak the decoding process to work with the TV signals used by broadcasters in different regions. Indeed, it should soon be available in the United States.

The Dicapta Foundation in Winter Springs, Fla., has been working with García Crespo’s team and others to make that happen. They call their project GoCC4All. Apps for Google and Apple phones are just about ready, says Lourdes Fiallos. She’s a project manager at Dicapta. Testing with deaf-blind users should start in a few weeks.

García Crespo’s team also wants to create a “universal communicator” for deaf-blind people. It would let them communicate with anyone without the need to have a human assistant present.

Ángel García Crespo (right) chats with Javier, who is deaf-blind, through an interpreter ( off screen ) and a machine that presents words in Braille. Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Anindya "Bapin" Bhattacharyya is a technology-development and training specialist at the Helen Keller National Center for Deaf-Blind Youths and Adults. It's in Sands Point, N.Y. Bapin is deaf-blind himself. And he says the new technology sounds like “a great development.”

Bapin does raise a few questions. “There needs to be a menu to allow me to select a channel or show that is captioned and also has audio/visual descriptions,” he points out.

Bapin also would like a way to skip an ad. People with sight and hearing can take a break when a commercial comes on. When they hear or see that the show resumed, they can again pay attention. Deaf-blind people would like such a signal to let them know when a show resumes, he says.

Technologies to assist people with disabilities “are fantastic and give deaf-blind people access to digital info and communication,” Bapin says. However, he notes, gaps remain. Examples include self-help machines at some stores and banks. Too often the developers forget to include accessibility features.

Inventing new technologies to boost their accessibility takes work, as García Crespo’s team has learned. For instance, the TV system had to work in real time. Yet no one knew in advance which show someone might want to “watch.” To deal with that, the team has different computer processors handle each TV channel’s signal. Then one server centrally manages all of them. It collects the processed subtitles and visual descriptions and then sends them to users on demand.

Getting the whole set-up to work was tricky, but García Crespo liked the challenge.

“I like to solve problems,” he says. “If the solutions are related to technology to improve people’s lives, I like those problems better.”

====== 30 ========

Many food supplements unlawfully contain drugs

(for more about Power Words, click here)

ad Short for advertisement. It may appear in any medium (print, online or broadcast) and has been prepared to sell someone on a product, idea or point of view.

amphetamine A class of potent prescription drugs used to stimulate the nervous system. They work by altering levels of certain natural chemicals in the brain. Doctors prescribe these drugs to treat narcolepsy (a sleep problem), to boost nervous-system responses, to control symptoms in people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and sometimes to treat obese people for a few weeks as they start a reduced calorie diet and exercise program for weight loss. These drugs can be habit forming (somewhat addictive). In high doses, they can provide euphoria, delirium and other symptoms similar to cocaine.

blood sugar The body circulates glucose, a type of simple sugar, in blood to tissues of the body where it will be used as a fuel. The body extracts this simple sugar from breakdown of sugars and starches. However, some diseases, most notably diabetes, can allow an unhealthy concentration of this sugar to build up in blood.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention An agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, CDC is charged with protecting public health and safety by working to control and prevent disease, injury and disabilities. It does this by investigating disease outbreaks, tracking exposures by Americans to infections and toxic chemicals, and regularly surveying diet and other habits among a representative cross-section of all Americans.

chemical A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H 2 O. Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are the result of various reactions between different compounds.

chondroitin A natural chemical found in the connective tissue of people and animals. Synthetic versions are sold as a food supplement to deal with joint pain, especially in people with arthritis.

colleague Someone who works with another; a co-worker or team member.

compound (often used as a synonym for chemical) A compound is a substance formed when two or more chemical elements unite (bond) in fixed proportions. For example, water is a compound made of two hydrogen atoms bonded to one oxygen atom. Its chemical symbol is H 2 O.

consumer (n.) Term for someone who buys something or uses something. (adj.) A person who uses goods and services that must be paid for.

contaminant Pollutant; a chemical, biological or other substance that is unwanted or unnatural in an environment (such as water, soil, air, the body or food).

database An organized collection of related data.

emergency room Also known as the ER. It's that part of the hospital where doctors initially attend to the immediate medical needs of accident victims and others who need critical care.

Food and Drug Administration (or FDA) A part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, FDA is charged with overseeing the safety of many products. For instance, it is responsible for making sure drugs are properly labeled, safe and effective; that cosmetics and food supplements are safe and properly labeled; and that tobacco products are regulated.

internal medicine A branch of medicine where doctors diagnose and treat adults for conditions that don’t need surgery. Doctors who work in this field are known as internists.

kidney Each in a pair of organs in mammals that filters blood and produces urine.

liver An organ of the body of animals with backbones that performs a number of important functions. It can store fat and sugar as energy, break down harmful substances for excretion by the body, and secrete bile, a greenish fluid released into the gut, where it helps digest fats and neutralize acids.

mineral Crystal-forming substances that make up rock, such as quartz, apatite or various carbonates. Most rocks contain several different minerals mish-mashed together. A mineral usually is solid and stable at room temperatures and has a specific formula, or recipe (with atoms occurring in certain proportions) and a specific crystalline structure (meaning that its atoms are organized in regular three-dimensional patterns). (in physiology) The same chemicals that are needed by the body to make and feed tissues to maintain health.

muscle A type of tissue used to produce movement by contracting its cells, known as muscle fibers. Muscle is rich in protein, which is why predatory species seek prey containing lots of this tissue.

online (n.) On the internet. (adj.) A term for what can be found or accessed on the internet.

recall A procedure whereby companies remove particular products from the market (i.e. store shelves) because the products were defective, dangerous or might pose some newfound risk of harm. Or a product that had already been purchased (such as a car or lawn mower) might be recalled so that a manufacturer could fix a problem in it or give people their money back.

regulate (n. regulation) To control with actions. Governments write rules and regulations — laws — that are enforced by police and the courts.

risk The chance or mathematical likelihood that some bad thing might happen. For instance, exposure to radiation poses a risk of cancer. Or the hazard — or peril — itself. (For instance: Among cancer risks that the people faced were radiation and drinking water tainted with arsenic.)

steroid (in biology) A chemical that serves as a signaling molecule in living things. Steroids are usually hormones — which means they are released in the bloodstream to have effects throughout the body. They can serve as stress hormones or as hormones that make children develop sexually during puberty. (in sports) Some steroids help build muscle mass. Cheating athletes may use injections of steroid hormones to build extra muscle. This cheating is called doping.

supplement (verb) To add to something. (in nutrition) Something taken in pill or liquid form — often a vitamin or mineral — to improve the diet. For instance, it may provide more of some nutrient that is believed to benefit health. It may also provide some substance to the diet that is claimed to promote health.

symptom A physical or mental indicator generally regarded to be characteristic of a disease. Sometimes a single symptom — especially a general one, such as fever or pain — can be a sign of any of many different types of injury or disease.

taint To contaminate something with an unexpected, unnatural or illegal substance.

transplant (in medicine) The replacement of a tissue or an organ with that from another organism. It is also a term for the material that will be transplanted.

vitamin Any of a group of chemicals that are essential for normal growth and nutrition and are required in small quantities in the diet because either they cannot be made by the body or the body cannot easily make them in sufficient amounts to support health.

====== 31 ========

Less screentime linked to better memory, learning in kids

Screens — on computers, smartphones, tablets and more — surround us more than ever. But it might be best to look away. Nearly two out of three U.S. kids spend more than two hours a day looking at screens, a new study finds. The kids who spend more time staring at screens perform worse on memory, language and thinking tests than do those who spend less time in front of a device. That’s the result of a study of more than 4,500 kids 8- to 11-years old.

Time on devices has its pros and cons. Screen time before bed can make it harder to sleep. But some time with devices also can improve a student’s moods. For this study, researchers wanted to find out how much time kids were spending on screens — whether a smartphone, a television, an iPad or a computer. They also wanted to look at how much sleep and exercise these kids were getting. Finally, the scientists wanted to gauge kids’ cognitive abilities. These are mental activities — such as solving puzzles, remembering things or learning something new.

The researchers used data gathered as part of a large, long-term study. Called the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study, it surveyed more than 4,500 kids and their parents. The study asked about screen time. It also asked about exercise and sleep, and tested memory and learning.

So how much screen time is too much? The researchers went with guidelines from experts. These recommend no more than two hours of recreational screen time a day. They also advise kids to get at least an hour of exercise each day and between nine and 11 hours of sleep at night.

If that prescription seems strict, it was. Only five in every 100 of the surveyed children met all three guidelines. In fact, 29 in every 100 didn’t meet any of the guidelines. So they were “getting less than nine hours of sleep, they’re on their screens for longer than two hours and they’re not being physically active,” notes Jeremy Walsh. He’s an exercise physiologist — someone who studies how bodies work during exercise. He works at the University of British Columbia in Okanagan.

Lots of screens, not so much sleep

On average, children in this study spent 3.6 hours a day using screens for video games, videos and other fun. They also exercised an hour or more fewer than four days a week. At least they slept an average of 9.1 hours a night.

Less screen time was linked with better cognitive scores. Children who spent fewer than two hours on screens scored about four percent higher on thinking-related tests than did kids who spent more time on their screens. Kids who met the recommendations for both screen time and sleep also got better scores on their thinking tests. When analyzed on their own, sleep and physical activity didn’t seem to influence test results. It was screen time that really made a difference.

“This raises a flag,” Walsh says. The new data add to concerns that heavy use of smartphones, tablets or televisions can hurt growing minds. Walsh and his colleagues published their findings online September 26 in Lancet Child & Adolescent Health.

Because the study only asked people about their habits once, it only captures a single snapshot in time. That means that Walsh and his colleagues can’t tell if the amount of screen time kids get actually changes brain development. But, Walsh adds, “Without [knowing] what kids are actually doing with their screens, we’re seeing that the two-hour mark actually seems to be a good recommendation for benefiting cognition.”

The study can’t say whether screen time actually hurt thinking skills. Kids who spend lots of time with devices might miss out on other activities that improve their memory or problem-solving skills. “You don’t know which is the chicken and which is the egg here,” cautions Michael Rich. He is a pediatrician. That’s a doctor who focuses on children. Rich works at Boston Children’s Hospital in Massachusetts. It could be that smarter kids are less likely to spend lots of time on screens, he says. If true, they would get better test scores — but it wouldn’t be because they used devices less.

Simple cause-and-effect relationships often don’t exist in human behavior, Rich says. Instead of broad rules for all kids, “we need to tailor what we learn from science to individual children.”

But by looking at screen, sleep and exercise behaviors in combination, the results offer a fuller look at children’s health. That’s a peek that’s sorely needed, says Eduardo Esteban Bustamante. He’s a kinesiologist — someone who studies how bodies move. He works at the University of Illinois in Chicago. “We don’t know a lot yet about how these behaviors interact with one another to influence kids’ cognitive development,” he says.

The ABCD Study will keep collecting data from these families for another 10 years. This means scientists may be able to learn more about how screen time affects kids through their teen years and beyond. “I’m really excited to see where this line of research goes,” Bustamante says.

====== 32 ========

Soft robots get their power from the skin they’re in

A new type of soft robot gets its power from the skin it’s in.

This robotic skin bends, stretches and contracts. That flexibility lets it wrap around inanimate objects. Wrap it around the legs of a stuffed animal and presto! A flexible lightweight robot. Putting removable, reusable sheets of this “skin” on other objects could turn them into useful grippers or wearable devices. Researchers described their new invention online September 19 in Science Robotics.

“It’s an interesting approach,” says Christopher Atkeson. He’s a roboticist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa., who did not work on the project. Sometimes it might be simpler to use a soft ready-made robot for a specific purpose. Like squeezing through tight spaces, for example, or gently grabbing objects. The new robotic skins might come in handy for other things, such as search-and-rescue operations or space exploration. These are missions where users might not know in advance what types of robotic helpers they’ll need. They also are missions where packing light is key, Atkeson notes.

Each piece of robotic skin is made of an elastic polymer (PAHL-ih-murr) or fabric. That stretchy skin can hold air pouches that inflate when pumped full of gas. Or it might hold nickel titanium (Ty-TAY-nee-um) coils that contract when heated by an electric current. Such gas pouches or coils would allow the robotic skin to move and change shape.

Rebecca Kramer-Bottiglio is an engineer at Yale University in New Haven, Conn. She and colleagues used the skin to build several robots. They gave the robots different types of motion two ways. In one, they changed the layout of air pouches or coils in the skin. For the other, they attached pieces of skin to an object in various ways.

For instance, wrapping the skin around foam tubes in one direction created robots that crawled like inchworms. Wrapping it another direction created robots that paddled forward on two ends. Patches of robotic skin around three foam fingers created a soft robot “grabber.”

The researchers also fastened robotic skin to a shirt to create a garment that monitors posture. Whenever the skin sensed the user’s shoulders slumping, it wriggled gently as a reminder to sit up straight. Robotic skin stitched into clothing could give the wearer a massage. Or it could provide tactile (touch) feedback in virtual reality systems, Atkeson says.

The robotic skin isn’t ready for off-the-shelf use just yet. To work, each piece must be tethered to hoses or wires. These feed into its gas pouches or electric coils. But future versions might include portable air pressure and electricity devices, Kramer-Bottiglio says.

====== 33 ========

Science News for Students, Physicists finally calculated where the proton’s...

A proton’s mass is more just than the sum of its parts. And now scientists know just what accounts for the subatomic particle’s heft.

Protons are made up of even smaller particles called quarks, so you might expect that simply adding up the quarks’ masses should give you the proton’s mass. However, that sum is much too small to explain the proton’s bulk. And new, detailed calculations show that only 9 percent of the proton’s heft comes from the mass of constituent quarks. The rest of the proton’s mass comes from complicated effects occurring inside the particle, researchers report in the Nov. 23 Physical Review Letters.

====== 34 ========

Science News for Students, Why a chemistry teacher started a science board...

A physicist, a gamer and two editors walk into a bar. No, this isn’t the setup for some joke. After work one night, a few Science News staffers tried out a new board game, Subatomic. This deck-building game combines chemistry and particle physics for an enjoyable — and educational — time.

====== 35 ========

Sign up

You already know how this works.

Once you follow a blog, all of its posts show up in your dashboard, just like you’d expect. See something great? Reblog it to your own blog. Add commentary if you like. Make it your own. Other people will do the same to your posts. That’s how you meet people here.

====== 36 ========

Science News for Students, Renewable energy might be able to green a desert

Wind turbines and solar panels that create electricity are examples of environmentally friendly — or “green” — technology. A new study finds that these forms of renewable energy might be green in another sense, too. Large collections of those turbines or so-called farms of solar panels appear capable of bringing rains to the desert. And that would allow more plants to grow.



====== 37 ========

Sign up

You already know how this works.

Once you follow a blog, all of its posts show up in your dashboard, just like you’d expect. See something great? Reblog it to your own blog. Add commentary if you like. Make it your own. Other people will do the same to your posts. That’s how you meet people here.

====== 38 ========

Science News for Students, Climate change sets people on the move

This is the first in a 10-part series about the ongoing global impacts of climate change. These stories will look at the current effects of a changing planet, what the emerging science suggests is behind those changes and what we all can do to adapt to them.

On September 21, 2017, the day after Hurricane Maria swept across Puerto Rico, Yolimar Garayalde Figueroa stepped outside her home. At once, she saw that everything had changed.

“It felt like we were back in my grandparents’ time,” she recalls. “Everything was destroyed…. There was absolutely no phone reception, no TV, no wifi. If you wanted to know about a person, you had to go directly to them.”

During the storm, a tree fell on the family home, cracking the ceiling above Figueroa’s bed. The rain and wind, which peaked at 250 kilometers (155 miles) per hour, blew in the home’s windows. Water flooded the structure, destroying many of the family’s possessions.

Hurricane Maria caused damage to homes across Puerto Rico. The house at the center top of this image, for instance, lost much of its roof.Airman 1st Class Nicholas Dutton/U.S. Air Force via USDA/Flickr

Soon Figueroa would discover the storm had destroyed much of the rest of her island as well. That included its power grid, meaning no one had electricity. For many — including Figueroa and her family — water no longer flowed from the kitchen tap. “We went eight months without electricity and six without water,” she notes.

Before the storm, Figueroa attended the University of Puerto Rico. But she soon found it impractical to return that fall. The hurricane had destroyed one of the family’s two cars. Now they all had to share just one. With no power or wifi, studying would be impossible. Plus, she adds, “I knew I had to work even more hours than I already did to help my family get back on track.”

Then an opportunity arose. The University of Central Florida offered the teen a spot at its campus in Orlando. Figueroa’s parents encouraged her to go for it. “They told me I needed to stay focused on my studies.” So Figueroa packed her bags, got on a plane and joined thousands of storm-ravaged Puerto Ricans who left this U.S. territory for the mainland.

Many people move away from home when they grow up. They may leave for a better education, better job opportunities or because they’ve just always wanted to live somewhere else. But they also may leave because some event made their home a dangerous or unwelcome place to live or work. Natural disasters, for instance, prompt some 26.4 million people globally to leave their homes, on average, each year.

“Migration has always been a strategy and has always been a part of human life,” notes Julia Blocher. She studies the links between climate change and migration at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impacts Research in Germany.

Hurricane Maria is just one of the many recent natural events believed to have been made worse by climate change. Scientists now point to events around the globe — heat waves, droughts, floods, powerful storms and more — as evidence that climate change is no longer a figment of the future. It is happening now. And it can affect someone’s decision to leave or stay, even if they don’t realize it.

Some, such as Figueroa, move within their home country. Others cross borders to foreign lands. Some eventually return home. Others will never be able to return. So far, the numbers aren’t huge. But in the not-too-distant future, millions could find themselves migrating long distances in response to Earth’s changing climate.

====== 39 ========

Sign up

You already know how this works.

Once you follow a blog, all of its posts show up in your dashboard, just like you’d expect. See something great? Reblog it to your own blog. Add commentary if you like. Make it your own. Other people will do the same to your posts. That’s how you meet people here.

====== 40 ========

Science News for Students, New tools aim to better predict blooms of toxic...

The stench of thousands of dead, bloated fish hung over the beaches of western Florida for months in 2018. The fish were casualties of an algae bloom — an uncontrolled growth of small organisms. Such blooms hit the Gulf of Mexico’s coastlines almost every year.

Called a red tide, this year’s bloom has been particularly intense — and toxic. The algae that turn the water a murky reddish tint also emit a poison. It can cause breathing problems for people — and kill sea creatures. Dolphins and endangered sea turtles may turn up among the dead.

“Algae” is a catch-all term used for a variety of water dwellers that use photosynthesis to make energy from the sun. They can range in size from bacteria and other single-celled organisms to larger algae, such as kelp.

Not all algae are bad. But harmful algae blooms — abbreviated HABs — can be sickening, even deadly. That’s why scientists are at work to better predict when and where blooms might emerge. Many systems are being developed to forecast blooms. Most can predict such toxic tides only three to seven days off.

Climate change could further worsen toxic tides, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency warns. Those changes could include warmer water temperatures, growing salinity and higher sea levels of carbon dioxide.

And Florida’s red tide is not the only bloom plaguing U.S. waters. Other types of toxic tides are also appearing ever more frequently. They also are popping up in more places and lasting longer.

====== 41 ========

Science News for Students, How these poison frogs avoid poisoning themselves

Poison dart frogs tend to advertise their toxic nature with a brightly colored skin. The toxic chemical made by those frogs can kill a human. It does not, however, harm the frog. A new study shows that for some frogs, evolving a way to make and use this defensive weapon came with a price.

A genetic change protected one group of frogs from epibatidine (Ep-ih-BAT-ih-deen). It’s a lethal toxin that the frogs derive by recycling some toxic materials in their diet. But the change that keeps the frogs from being poisoned by this chemical also disrupts a key chemical — one that relays messages in its brain. The frogs have managed to sidestep that potentially damaging side effect, however. It required evolving some additional genetic tweaks. Researchers describe what those tweaks are in the September 22 Science.

====== 42 ========

Science News for Students, For teens, a good mood depends on good sleep

For families with teenagers, school nights may fall into a familiar pattern. Parents urge their kids to go to bed early. But teens would rather stay up late. Maybe they have homework or want to spend time with friends. Or maybe it’s just hard to fall asleep. But a new study confirms that adolescents need eight to 10 hours of sleep at night to feel their best the next day.

As kids reach adolescence, they often face increasing workloads and responsibilities. But they are not yet adults. Their bodies and brains are still changing. As a result, “Their sleep needs are like that of a developing child,” says Rafael Pelayo. He is a sleep doctor at the Stanford Center for Sleep Sciences and Medicine in California. He was not involved in the new study.

====== 43 ========

Science News for Students, An orbiter glitch may mean some signs of liquid...

Thanks to the way data from NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter are handled, the spacecraft may be seeing signs of hydrated salts that aren’t really there , planetary scientists report online November 9 in Geophysical Research Letters.

Well this is a bit embarrassing

It appears that the requested content could not load or is not available anymore, however there's plenty more cool stuff to be found on our home page.

====== 44 ========

Cool Jobs: Getting to know volcanoes

Something was wrong with Ben Kennedy’s pumice. He had placed the porous, volcanic rock into an autoclave. The high temperature and pressure inside this device would imitate the interior of a volcano. But when the scientist opened the door to take out the rock, it had shrunk. It was now only about half its original size.

Kennedy didn’t think it had simply melted. “The weird thing was, it didn’t just shrink vertically,” he recalls. “It also shrank sideways.” Kennedy began a years-long quest to figure out what had happened to his pumice. It would lead this volcanologist to a discovery that changed scientists’ understanding of how volcanoes work.

Ancient volcanoes helped build and shape our world. Their eruptions create new land. They’re also a dramatic force of destruction. People who live near a volcano may have to leave their homes when lava flows out. When an eruption spews clouds of ash into the air, planes have to fly around it. Even hundreds of miles away, volcano smoke — called vog — can pollute the air and make it hard for some people to breathe.

Extreme temperatures, frequent explosions and poisonous gases make it impossible for people to climb inside an active volcano. It can be difficult to even get close. So scientists use other tools to learn about them. They study samples of lava or write computer programs to simulate explosions. Some even use the equivalent of a stethoscope to listen to a volcano’s internal gurgling and coughs.

Here are three people who are helping explain how volcanoes work — from the inside out.

The incredible, shrinking pumice

Kennedy works at the University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand. He had set out to study what happens to water when it mixes with magma — or liquid rock — inside a volcano. But he was so curious about what had happened to his pumice that he had to learn more. “That became the focus of the research,” he says — “to try and work out why the pumice was shrinking in this weird way.”

He and his colleagues started by reading about foam. Pumice is similar to foam, because it too is full of air bubbles. Those bubbles connect to one another. This lets gas pass through the rock. Some bubbles are large enough to see. Others are tiny — so small, a human hair could not squeeze through. When the scientists repeated their heating of the pumice and looked at what happened to its bubbles, they spied a clue.

“A lot of these really small bubbles had disappeared,” Kennedy says. It was their first inkling that the shrinking had something to do with the molten rock’s surface tension. Surface tension is the force that holds a droplet of water together. It causes the molecules in a liquid to pull closer together.

To learn more, his team sought to find out how fast the pumice shrank. “We didn’t know if the change happened in the first five minutes or if it happened gradually,” Kennedy says. So they repeated the test yet again. This time, before they started, they replaced the autoclave door with strong, heat-resistant glass. It let them see inside and measure how quickly the rock shrank. The results proved surface tension indeed was at play.

Even Kennedy was surprised. “Surface tension is an incredibly small force,” he says. “When people think about volcanoes, they think surface tension is insignificant, because there are such bigger things going on."

On bubbly lava

The findings help explain how some volcanoes work. In the past, volcanologists believed that flowing lava sinks back down after an eruption, pressing on the magma below and squashing all the bubbles. Pressure builds up under the compacted lava. This leaves the lava, like a cork, plugging up the volcano — until it explodes. This suggests why some volcanoes will go through cycles of flowing and explosive eruptions.

“We’re not saying that’s not true,” he now says. “But there’s actually a lot of volcanoes that don’t do that.”

Some volcanoes simply don’t explode. Kennedy and his colleagues showed how surface tension could let lava release gas without pressure, by collapsing the tiny bubbles inside. “A pressurized volcano explodes. A less pressurized volcano might just ooze more lava out,” he explains.

The team checked its results against a real volcano in Japan that behaved in this way. They studied samples of its cooled lava. “We looked at the textures,” he says. “And you could see they were missing the small bubbles, in the same way we were missing the small bubbles in our experiment.”

How could something as small as surface tension make a difference in a volcano? “Often inside a volcano, a lot of your forces are actually quite balanced,” Kennedy says. Even when magma has the weight of lava and rock squashing it from above, it also has pressures building up below. Sometimes, the small force of surface tension is enough to tip the balance, he now concludes.

Kennedy traveled to Hawaii to study lava from Kilauea volcano. A TV crew filmed the trip. “I got to wear one of those ridiculous silver spaceman suits, scoop out some flowing lava with a big spade, and we could see that it was also deflated. So the same thing was going on in Hawaiian lava flows."

But, he notes, the fancy gear was “mostly for show.” The gloves were so thin, his hands got scorched as he dug into the 1,000° Celsius (1,830° Fahrenheit) lava.

“To be honest, those suits are something people do for TV. It’s much more effective to just wear firefighters’ equipment,” he says. “The most important thing is good gloves and a face shield.”

Listening to a volcano

When David Fee’s phone rings in the middle of the night, he knows it’s probably just his volcano alarm.

Fee is a scientist with the Alaska Volcano Observatory. He studies noises produced by volcanoes at low frequencies called infrasound. These are sound waves so deep and low, humans can’t hear them. But listening for them with special equipment can tell scientists when a volcano is acting up.

That’s what happened one night last July. A microphone near Alaska’s Cleveland volcano recorded the telltale low rumbling of an explosion. A computer monitoring the microphone recognized that an eruption was underway. So it sent an automatic text message to Fee, waking him up. It was his job to look at the data and confirm it — then warn officials if the eruption was dangerous.

Fee studied geophysics in graduate school. He had done some work in seismology, the study of earthquakes. Then he learned about infrasound and got excited to study volcanoes by listening to them. “I enjoy seismology, but there had been a lot of work done already,” he says. “Infrasound was new, with a lot of discoveries still to be made."

Infrasound reveals many clues about a volcano — starting with whether or not it’s even erupting. “That sounds obvious, but it’s sometimes very difficult to determine,” Fee says. Seismic activity, or shaking in the ground, may just be the result of an earthquake. Sound is sometimes the only sure way to know if an eruption is underway. This is especially true in a place like Alaska. If an eruption happens far from people in an area covered by clouds, no one will know it.

Infrasound also can help scientists pinpoint an eruption — useful when two volcanoes are close together. And the size and shape of the sound waves can tell scientists something about what’s coming out — like how much ash a volcano is producing, how fast the ash is moving and how big the plume will get.

Before he can start recording and studying a volcano’s sound, Fee needs to get his microphones in just the right spots. Some volcanoes are nearby and easy to reach. When he can, he likes to put as many as 10 or 12 microphones around the volcano, to record all its roaring and rumbling. “More is always better,” he says. But sometimes he must go to remote or dangerous areas. That might mean he can only set up one microphone to listen to several nearby volcanoes.

He and his team may spend a week or two around the volcano. They set up equipment, test it to make sure it works and gather other data. They might use infrared cameras to take pictures of the hot material coming out of the volcano, or study the amount and types of gases being emitted. They always wear hard hats and carry gas masks. This is to protect themselves from flying rocks and poisonous air. They keep a close eye on the volcano, and stay in contact with one another. “You have to pay attention at all times, because things can change quickly,” Fee says.

In addition to monitoring volcanoes in Alaska, Fee and his colleagues visit other parts of the world to study volcanic infrasound. In a remote mountain range in Russia, he could hear the volcanoes rumbling and feel the ground shaking under his feet. But that wasn’t the only thing he had to worry about. “It’s hot, there’s bugs, there’s bears around, and you have an explosive volcano just a few miles away at the same time,” he recalled.

Back in July, when Fee’s volcano alarm woke him up, he got out of bed and studied the data. The microphones had picked up an infrasound signal that was very loud, but short. That meant the eruption had only lasted a few seconds. The recording station registered the roughly 135 decibel sound. That's intense. If it had been audible to people, it would have had "a similar loudness to being close to a jet engine or loud gun," Fee notes.

“It was a simple, quick explosion," the data showed. "So it was likely a small ash cloud," Fee concluded. He helped get the information to authorities. Just to be safe, they then set up temporary flight restrictions in the area.

Fee says he likes knowing that his work can help make a difference in the real world. “I don’t like to be woken up at 2 a.m., but it’s very satisfying to see that in play,” he says.

Cloudy, with a chance of vog

When a volcano erupts, lava isn’t the only danger to people living nearby. Gas and dust can fill the air with a hazy smoke called vog. “It’s highly toxic,” says Steven Businger. “It causes burning eyes and hurts the throat. People who are sensitive to it can have asthma attacks or breathing problems."

Businger is an atmospheric scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. He worked with researchers at the Hawaii Volcano Observatory to develop a computer model that predicts how vog will spread. They report predictions made by the model on a website. It provides a daily vog forecast.

On the island of Hawaii, vog is most concentrated downwind of the island’s active volcanoes. But under the right conditions, it can spread across the entire state, more than 480 kilometers (300 miles). Besides making it hard to breathe, vog can also be bad for business. Flower farmers near the volcano sometimes lose their crop when their plants and blossoms are burned by the toxic chemicals. And on the island of Maui, more than 100 miles away, a local sugar plantation can’t burn its fields for harvest when vog is already polluting the air.

To model current vog conditions, scientists measure the amount of sulfur dioxide gas that the Kilauea volcano is spewing. They use what they know about the gas’s properties and how it spreads. Then they add wind forecasts. By combining the information in a computer program, they can predict how vog will likely spread around the island and across the state.

Many government agencies rely on the university’s model. Businesses and individual people check the website daily for its predictions. This lets them plan their activities in such a way as to avoid vog. And local meteorologists use the site to provide a daily vog forecast on the TV news.

“We had a pretty good idea of where the vog was going” even before they created the model, Businger says. “It was satisfying that we were able to get a model prediction that was good enough for people to benefit from it."

Their research has also turned up some new insights on vog. For instance, Businger notes, “We discovered that when a vog plume is ingested into a hurricane, it produces more lightning."

Next, he would like to study if the chemicals that make up vog act differently when the air is cloudy, compared to when it’s clear. Knowing this could improve vog forecasts even more.

But the scientists’ biggest challenge isn’t a volcano — it’s funding. The vog model cost about $400,000 to develop. To keep it running, it now costs another $100,000 to $150,000 each year. Businger is working with a group of state and other government agencies, hoping they can combine funds to support the project.

“There are thousands of people a day who visit that site,” he says. If the money dries up, “It could close down tomorrow,” he warns.

Funding is far from the only challenge facing volcano scientists. They also must be prepared to deal with poisonous gases, extreme heat and dangerous “lava bombs.” But for now, these researchers will continue their work to better understand the Earth and keep people safe. And one reason they just keep forging on: their love of volcano science!

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

asthma A disease affecting the body’s airways,which are the tubes through which animals breathe. Asthma obstructs these airways through swelling, the production of too much mucus or a tightening of the tubes. As a result, the body can expand to breathe in air, but loses the ability to exhale appropriately. The most common cause of asthma is an allergy. It is a leading cause of hospitalization and the top chronic disease responsible for kids missing school.

atmospheric science A field of meteorology that is related to climate science and pollution impacts. People who work in this field, called atmospheric scientists, use computers and math to model the properties of Earth's atmosphere that drive weather, climate and the movement of gases and pollutants through the air.

autoclave A heated pressure chamber, normally used to sterilize instruments.

computer model A program that runs on a computer that creates a model, or simulation, of a real-world feature, phenomenon or event.

geophysics The study of matter and energy on Earth and how they interact.

graduate school Programs at a university that offer advanced degrees, such as a Master’s or PhD degree. It’s called graduate school because it is started only after someone has already graduated from college (usually with a four-year degree).

infrasound Sound waves with frequencies below the lower limit of human hearing.

lava Molten rock that comes up from the mantle, through Earth’s crust, and out of a volcano.

lava bomb A clump of lava — molten rock — that can be flung up from a pool of lava at the top of a volcano, usually when a gas bubble bursts at the pool’s surface.

magma The molten rock that resides under Earth’s crust. When it erupts from a volcano, this material is referred to as lava.

meteorologist Someone who studies weather and climate events.

model A simulation of a real-world event (usually using a computer) that has been developed to predict one or more likely outcomes.

porous The description of a substance that contains tiny holes, called pores, through which a liquid or gas can pass.

pumice A light-colored, porous rock flung from the lava of an erupting volcano. The rock tends to be relatively light-weight because the frothy lava had contained a large quantity of water and gases. These created little bubbles in lava, which broke open, then hardened. The material cooled so quickly that atoms in the liquid rock could not form crystals. Pumice is therefore a type of volcanic glass with an amorphous (irregular) structure.

seismic (adj.) Caused by or having to do with an earthquake.

seismology The science concerned with earthquakes and related phenomena. People who work in this field are known as seismologists.

simulate To deceive in some way by imitating the form or function of something. A simulated dietary fat, for instance, may deceive the mouth that it has tasted a real fat because it has the same feel on the tongue — without having any calories. A simulated sense of touch may fool the brain into thinking a finger has touched something even though a hand may no longer exists and has been replaced by a synthetic limb. (in computing) To try and imitate the conditions, functions or appearance of something. Computer programs that do this are referred to as simulations.

sulfur dioxide A compound made of sulfur and oxygen. It is one of the pollutants that can form when a fossil fuel is burned. It’s also a gas naturally emitted during volcanic eruptions. Its scientific symbol is SO 2 .

surface tension The surface film of a liquid caused by the strong bonds between the molecules in the surface layer.

toxic Poisonous or able to harm or kill cells, tissues or whole organisms. The measure of risk posed by such a poison is its toxicity.

vog The haze of smoke, dust and gasses released by a volcano.

volcanism The processes by which volcanoes form and change over time. Scientists who study this are known as volcanologists and their field of science is known as volcanology.

volcano A place on Earth’s crust that opens, allowing magma and gases to spew out from underground reservoirs of molten material. The magma rises through a system of pipes or channels, sometimes spending time in chambers where it bubbles with gas and undergoes chemical transformations. This plumbing system can become more complex over time. This can result in a change, over time, to the chemical composition of the lava as well. The surface around a volcano’s opening can grow into a mound or cone shape as successive eruptions send more lava onto the surface, where it cools into hard rock.

====== 45 ========

Cool Jobs: Saving precious objects

Astronaut Neil Armstrong will always be famous as the first human to walk on the moon. But Armstrong said his mission succeeded because of thousands of people on the ground. Mechanics, inspectors and others who worked on the Apollo 11 flight all had the same attitude, he said: “If anything goes wrong here, it’s not going to be my fault, because my part is going to be better than I have to make it.”

Lisa Young is now charged with the care of one key part of that mission. Young works at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C. As a conservator of museum artifacts, her job is to conserve, or protect, prized items so that they will last as long as possible. She works with curators — experts who choose objects for the museum’s collections and who decide how to display them. But Young’s job is more specialized. Objects change as they age. She must learn what it takes to preserve them.

Young manages a collection of more than 200 spacesuits, including Armstrong’s. The suits were designed to go to the moon and back. On Earth, however, they have proven fragile.

“Each suit is made of more than 24 materials,” Young explains. They include metal, synthetic fabrics, rubber and plastics. “They are attached to one another in layers,” she notes. And one material can interact with its neighbor. “We can’t separate them because that would mean taking the suits apart.” Adding to the problem, curators can’t see what is happening inside of those layers.

Objects age, just as people do. Drawings and photos fade. Metals turn dull or rusty. Cloth can dry out and become brittle. Spacesuits start to come apart. Conservators like Young are experts at protecting and restoring precious objects. Along with art or history, many also have studied chemistry, physics, archaeology or other scientific fields. They work behind the scenes, often using advanced tools such as laser scanners and computer modeling.

Here we learn how three conservators are saving rare and valued objects. Young wanted to figure out what happens as high-tech materials age so that she could learn how to better preserve spacesuits. One museum wanted to use conservation technologies to sculpt new missing pieces for a valued — but broken — sculpture from the 1740s. And another museum wanted to learn how it could display a set of huge modern paintings so that they wouldn’t look as badly faded as they had become.

In each case, conservators found unique ways to study the damage so that they can slow it. Even better, they might be able to restore those works so museum goers can appreciate the art or artifacts for generations — if not centuries — to come.

Home from space

Until the Space Shuttle program began in 1981, spacesuits were designed to be used once and then discarded. No one worried about whether the materials would last. But now signs of the suits’ aging are obvious. Light has faded the outer fabrics, Young notes. Fibers are becoming brittle and threaten to break. Plastics have lost some of the plasticizers — chemicals that once made them flexible. Aluminum parts have been corroding. “If you don’t handle the suits correctly,” she says, “you can certainly damage them.”

To minimize exposure to light and moisture, the museum staff rotates which suits are on display. To limit damage, staff members put the suits onto trays before moving them into or out of storage. Even small amounts of moisture in the air can corrode metals, so the suits are always kept in low-humidity display cases. Conservators put packets of silica gel and charcoal into the cases, too. These absorb moisture and any gases produced by materials that may be breaking down.

The suit Armstrong wore to the moon is the prize of the collection. The museum would like to put it back on display to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the moon landing in 2019. “To do that we need to build a mannequin inside the suit to support it,” explains Young. But that can’t be done until her team has assessed what parts of the suit have given out over time. And “we would never consider taking Neil Armstrong’s suit apart,” she notes. Any change to it, she explains, could risk erasing some of “the history associated with his mission.”

So in October 2014, Young and other museum staffers carefully moved the spacesuit to the nearby National Museum of Natural History. It, too, is a Smithsonian facility. There the suit would get a CT scan. CT stands for computerized tomography. It’s the same technology used at many hospitals. (It can peer inside the human body without cutting it open.)

A machine beams X-rays at some target from many different angles. A computer then assembles the resulting X-ray images to produce a view of what’s inside the scanned object. The conservators are still analyzing data from the scan. But it should show what is happening between the suit’s many layers. With such data in hand, Young’s staff will be able to design a mannequin to support the suit without causing any more damage.

In college, Young studied history and archaeology. Back then, she expected to work with old objects, not modern objects, such as spacesuits. She earned a graduate degree in conservation science, which included two years of chemistry. Then she worked on digs at U.S. Civil War sites and learned how rubber and other 19th-century materials aged. Now she works with conservators who handle aluminum and other space-age materials.

“These suits are fragile," Young notes. "But they worked well. And we’re still learning from them.”

A porcelain puzzle

Slowing the time-related breakdown of aging artifacts is just one of the challenges that museum conservators face. Sometimes they have to repair valued items that have sustained damage over the years. That includes a huge fountain at the Victoria & Albert Museum in London. It depicts the god Neptune with his bride being pulled on a chariot made of seashells. The sculpture is made of porcelain, a famous kind of hard white china. But when the museum acquired it in 1870, it consisted of a mound of broken pieces — more than 150 in all.

“We had cupboards full of broken parts,” says Reino Liefkes. As a curator at this museum, he helped design exhibits and manage artifacts. In this case, some of the fountain’s pieces were missing, he notes, “and we had extras of others.”

Two years ago, Liefkes launched a project to finally put this porcelain puzzle back together.

He started by visiting the company in Meissen, Germany, that had produced it. Its factory is still producing fine porcelain. Liefkes also found a garden fountain in the nearby city of Dresden that had been the model for the Meissen sculpture. He even tracked down a reproduction of the porcelain fountain that had been made in the 1800s.

A photographer made three-dimensional (3-D) images of that 19th-century fountain. He started by scanning it with a laser. That laser projected a pattern onto the fountain’s surface. The object’s complex shapes created distortions in the pattern. With a camera, the photographer recorded these shape-linked patterns from several angles.

Later, a computer linked all of the images taken into a full 3-D representation of the fountain. The computer also filled in any gaps for areas that were not quite clear on the scans.

Conservators then compared this to the pieces of the fountain they had in storage. This showed them what pieces they were missing. By feeding descriptions of them into a 3-D printer, they could now build replacement pieces out of resin. This was the first time this museum had used 3-D printing to reconstruct a damaged object.

To make new porcelain parts, technicians made molds from the 3-D printed pieces, and the porcelain clay was pressed into these molds. Yet even knowing what shape they should be, making the new parts proved challenging. For instance, porcelain clay shrinks about 18 percent when it is fired. So Liefkes’ team had to enlarge the 3-D scans so the pieces they created would shrink to the correct size.

“To get them exactly the right size,” says Liefkes, “there were endless trials of different glazes and porcelain types.”

The treasure again measures 4 meters (13 feet) long — about equal to four baseball bats laid end to end — and 1 meter high. Made in 1748, it came from a time when wealthy nobles liked to impress guests at their fancy dinner parties. After the main course, diners would leave the room while servants cleared away the dishes. When the guests returned for dessert, the tables were set with fancy sculptures called table fountains. Water scented with rose petals ran through it, flowing over the figures and down into a basin. Such art works showed off the host’s wealth and good taste.

The Neptune fountain was a prime example of this type of art.

“It’s magical to see it reconstructed with modern tools,” Liefkes says. The fountain will go on display in the fall of 2015 at the museum. “Meissen was the most famous factory of its time,” he notes. The restored fountain now will be a highlight of the museum's collection.

(Story continues beneath slideshow)

Liefkes is from the Netherlands. There he studied art history at Leyden University. He joined the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1992, and eight years later became head of its Ceramics and Glass Section.

What always fascinates him, he says, is the fact that these materials come from very basic raw ingredients — clay (for ceramics) and sand (for glass). But using heat, artistry and technology, people can “shape them into something beautiful and useful,” he notes.

In the red

At the Harvard Art Museums in Cambridge, Mass., there is one room that holds just five paintings. Each is huge. Known as murals, they stretch from ceiling to floor, covering large swaths of wall. They were painted by Mark Rothko. These “color field” paintings show large shapes floating against colored backgrounds. The Russian-born Rothko wanted viewers to see his works close up so that they would feel surrounded by color. Some of his color-field paintings have sold for more than $70 million.

The Harvard University murals, painted in shades of deep red and plum, were designed to be hung in a dining room at the top of a tall building there. The room had large windows. Rothko knew sunlight would fade a paint’s colorful pigments. The sun’s ultraviolet rays can break the chemical bonds in these pigments. So Rothko warned officials to install curtains to protect the murals.

But the staff hadn’t accounted for what the students might want. Appreciating the view across Cambridge from these windows, students kept opening the curtains. Just a few years after the murals were hung in 1964, they already had faded badly. So Harvard removed them in 1979 and put them in storage.

Six years ago, conservators decided to try to restore the murals. They knew they could not repaint them. “Every conservation treatment needs to be reversible, and you never want to cover up an artist’s work,” explains Narayan Khandekar. He’s a senior conservation scientist at the museum.

One thing the museum could change was its lighting. We perceive color when light strikes special cells in our eyes, called cones. By altering the color of the light shining on the paintings, conservators could change how the viewers’ eyes interpreted the paintings’ colors.

But first the scientists had to figure out what the paintings looked like when they were new.

Photographs from 1964 existed. However, like the paintings, they too had faded. So the conservators called on Rudolf Gschwind for help. An expert on film aging, he works at the University of Basel in Switzerland. Gschwind helped the Harvard team calculate the photos’ original colors. Conservators also studied the colors of a sixth, related mural that Rothko still owned.

From this information, the conservators created “target images” — depictions of what the murals must have looked like when they were new. Next they photographed each faded mural and used computer models to create “compensation images.” Khandekar describes these as “maps of the missing colors.” Each of these compensation images is made up of more than two million pixels, or tiny dots of color.

Five digital projectors now hang from the ceiling of the mural gallery. Each beams a compensation image onto one of the paintings. When visitors look at the murals, they see them as Rothko painted them. Even with the projectors on, though, lighting in the gallery is kept low to halt further fading.

“This is the first time light has been used to restore paintings. Now people can see them as Rothko intended,” Khandekar says.

It took a team of five people — art historians and conservators — to “restore” the murals. These specialists worked with Gschwind and experts at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

“Some of us figured out why Rothko’s paints faded,” says Khandekar. “Others calculated how much color was missing. Still others wrote software that told the computers how to fix it.” Khandekar added his own expertise: organic chemistry and painting conservation. The paintings went on display in late November 2014 and will be shown through July 26, 2015.

By investigating how precious items age, experts like Young, Liefkes and Khandekar can assemble teams that use modern technology to fix the ravages of time. They work at a crossroads where art, science and history come together. And they don’t work alone. Finding answers usually requires tapping the skills and knowledge of researchers from many different fields.

We don’t usually see conservators when we visit museums. But we can see the fruits of their research and handiwork every time we admire an old and treasured artifact.

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

artifact An object made by people.

chemical bonds Attractive forces between atoms that are strong enough to make the linked elements function as a single unit. Some of the attractive forces are weak, some are very strong. All bonds appear to link atoms through a sharing of — or an attempt to share — electrons

chemistry The field of science that deals with the composition, structure and properties of substances and how they interact with one another. Chemists use this knowledge to study unfamiliar substances, to reproduce large quantities of useful substances or to design and create new and useful substances. (about compounds) The term is used to refer to the recipe of a compound, the way it’s produced or some of its properties.

civil war A war fought between two or more opposing groups that are citizens of the same country. In the U.S. Civil War, which took place from 1861 to 1865, southern “Confederate” states that had supported slavery fought unsuccessfully to break from the United States and form a new country.

computerized axial tomography (CAT or CT, for short). A special kind of x-ray scanning technology that produces cross-sectional views of the inside of a bone or body.

computer model A program that runs on a computer that creates a model, or simulation, of a real-world feature, phenomenon or event.

conservation The act of preserving or protecting something. The focus of this work can range from art objects to endangered species or other aspects of the natural environment.

conservator A person in charge of protecting and/or restoring valuable items.

corrode A process whereby metals react with gases or other materials in their environment and undergo a type of degradation. The rusting of iron, for instance, is one example of corrosion, driven by exposure to moisture.

curator Someone who manages a collection of items, for instance in a museum, library or art gallery. This person’s primary job is to design exhibits, organize and acquire collections and do research on the artifacts included in the collection.

digital (in electronics) A term for the type of technology based on semiconductors. (in computer science and engineering) An adjective indicating that something has been developed numerically on a computer or on some other electronic device, based on a binary system (where all numbers are displayed using a series of only zeros and ones).

glaze A material used to give a smooth, glossy coating to materials, especially porcelain. When pigments are included in this material, it can impart color to the surface as well.

graduate degree An advanced degree that universities offer, such as a Master’s degree or PhD. These are called graduate degrees because someone usually qualifies to start work on them only after already graduating from college (usually with a four-year degree).

laser A device that generates an intense beam of coherent light of a single color. Lasers are used in drilling and cutting, alignment and guidance, in data storage and in surgery.

mannequin A human form (often made of wood and/or plastic) that is used to display clothing in a store or other exhibit.

pixel Short for picture element. A tiny area of illumination on a computer screen, or a dot on a printed page, usually placed in an array to form a digital image. Photographs are made of thousands of pixels, each of different brightness and color, and each too small to be seen unless the image is magnified.

physics The scientific study of the nature and properties of matter and energy. Classical physics is an explanation of the nature and properties of matter and energy that relies on descriptions such as Newton’s laws of motion. It’s an alternative to quantum physics in explaining the motions and behavior of matter. A scientist who works in that field is known as a physicist.

pigment A material, like the natural colorings in skin, that alter the light reflected off of an object or transmitted through it. The overall color of a pigment typically depends on which wavelengths of visible light it absorbs and which ones it reflects. For example, a red pigment tends to reflect red wavelengths of light very well and typically absorbs other colors. Pigment also is the term for chemicals that manufacturers use to tint paint.

plasticizer Any of several chemicals added to certain synthetic materials to make them soft and/or pliable.

porcelain A hard, brittle material made by treating clay to a long heat treatment. The process, first perfected in Asia, came to be known as “china.” When treated before heating with a glaze, its surface can become impermeable, making it a good material for holding foods or liquids.

resin A sticky, sometimes aromatic substance, often secreted by plants. It may also be the viscous starting ingredient for some plastics that will harden when heated or treated with light.

scanner A machine that runs some sort of light (which includes anything from X-rays to infrared energy) over a person or object to get a succession of images. When a computer brings these images together, they can provide a motion picture of something or can offer a three-dimensional view through the target. Such systems are often used to see inside the human body or solid objects without breaching their surface.

silica gel A material that is crystalline when dry. It is used to absorb moisture from the environment. Manufacturers or museum conservators often include packets of this material to prevent moisture damage to valuable products (such as cameras or exhibited artifacts).

synthetic An adjective that describes something that did not arise naturally, but was instead created by people. Many have been developed to stand in for natural materials, such as synthetic rubber, synthetic diamond or a synthetic hormone. Some may even have a chemical makeup and structure identical to the original.

three-dimensional (3-D) printer A machine that takes instructions from a computer program on where to lay down successive layers of some raw material to create a three-dimensional object.

three-dimensional (3-D) printing The creation of a three-dimensional object with a machine that follows instructions from a computer program. The computer tells the printer where to lay down successive layers of some raw material, which can be plastic, metals, food or even living cells. 3-D printing is also called additive manufacturing.

ultraviolet A portion of the light spectrum that is close to violet but invisible to the human eye.

X-ray A type of radiation analogous to gamma rays, but of somewhat lower energy.

====== 46 ========

Cool Jobs: Crime scene investigators

TV shows such as CSI: Crime Scene Investigation and Bones make forensics look exciting — and in many cases, using science and technology to investigate crime is exciting.

Some crime scenes come loaded with clues: fingerprints, bullet holes, blood spots and even a body or two. Others have almost none: Maybe just a small swatch of an escapee’s clothing snagged on a fence, or a tiny scrape where a burglar jimmied a window. In still other cases, the clues can be so minuscule that they require a microscope to reveal.

If anything, television shows make solving crimes seem easier, more glamorous and certainly quicker than in reality. “Those shows are mostly just for entertainment,” says Kendall Stoner, an analyst at the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation’s crime laboratory in Nashville. “We only have basic computers, and our lab doesn’t look like a movie set,” she says. “But we get the job done.”

Here we profile Stoner and two other real forensic experts. Each job requires very individual skills, yet all three work in teams to decipher crime scenes, identify evidence and help bring criminals to justice. Oh, and these specialist crime fighters also help ensure no innocent people are punished for crimes they didn’t commit.

“It’s all about making sure that the correct person is prosecuted,” says Reanna Day, an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Knoxville, Tenn.

On the scene

Arson, bank robbery, kidnapping and murder are just a few of the many serious crimes forensic experts will investigate. These crimes can happen just about anywhere, from the tallest office building to the deepest forest. Solving such a diverse set of offenses across a range of scenes is challenging. But there’s good news: “Anything can be a piece of evidence,” Day points out.

Day leads one of the response teams that the FBI trains to probe for clues at crime scenes. While Day studied Japanese and math in college, the FBI Academy in Quantico, Va., taught her the science of collecting evidence, including hair and carpet fibers. “These are things that can disappear or be tracked from one part of the crime scene to another if you’re not careful,” she notes. She also learned how to collect and preserve fingerprints, as well as samples of blood.

Photographs are an important part of Day’s job, since they document exactly how a crime scene looked before her investigating scours the site for evidence. Later, this scene-setting information helps analysts interpret that evidence, which law-enforcement agents also use to identify suspects. Eventually, attorneys rely on that same evidence to help show a suspect’s guilt or innocence.

Examining a crime scene can take 12 or more hours. It might involve poring over a single room for a handful of clues — or a broad patch of forest laden with thousands of potential clues. Day and her team sometimes work quickly. “If it’s raining or snowing, we have to rush to protect evidence before it gets erased,” she notes. Other times, at the scenes of crimes that occurred outdoors long ago, the team works at a careful pace familiar to any archaeologist.

Day and her response team are real evidence sleuths. They find and collect physical clues. They then leave the analysis to experts with other types of specialized training.

Meanwhile, back at the lab

The job of the crime analyst is to study evidence collected at a crime scene. Often, that means comparing evidence to information contained in huge databases. Those databases contain everything from the treads of thousands of different sneakers, boots and other footwear to millions of fingerprints. Making a match can help identify clues and nab criminals.

In recent years, DNA analysis has become one of the greatest forensic tools for identifying crime suspects. For Kendall Stoner, it is every bit as important as the magnifying glass was a century ago.

About 99.8 percent of human DNA is identical among all people. However, the remaining 0.2 percent contains enough differences to give each person a unique genetic signature. (Except in identical twins, and even then there are individual differences in the chemicals attached to their genes.)

Many detectives call a DNA profile a “genetic fingerprint.” That is because just like an actual fingerprint, a suspect’s unique DNA also can provide a link to a crime scene.

DNA analysis is like the puzzles (and crime novels) that Stoner loved as a teen. “Anything where I was working toward an answer,” Stoner says. “I loved the challenge.”

Even before Stoner went to college she wanted to work in law enforcement. At the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, she also became interested in genetics and earned a degree in biology. Later, she received a graduate degree in forensic science, this time from the University of Alabama in Birmingham. Today, Kendall is one of 10 DNA analysts at the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation’s crime lab in Nashville.

For each analysis, Stoner starts by collecting DNA from evidence collected at a crime scene. She might swab a bloodstained piece of clothing or snip a piece of skin collected from under a victim’s fingernails — skin that may have been scratched from a suspect while fending off an attack.

Stoner then drops the swab, and any cells it has picked up, into a test tube holding a chemical solution. That solution extracts the DNA from the cells. Next, she adds dyes that reveal whether there’s enough DNA present to produce a genetic profile. If there is, she uses a process called polymerase (po LIM er aze) chain reaction, or PCR, to copy the DNA over and over. PCR can take just one-billionth of a gram of a person’s genetic material and create thousands or millions of copies of that DNA. Finally, Stoner places this amplified — or copied — genetic material into a machine that converts genes in the DNA into a series of numbers. These numbers can be compared to other DNA profiles.

Stoner often mixes her own chemical solutions: The fresher they are, the better the results, she notes. While Stoner falls back on the science she learned in school, she also constantly learns new skills. That is because the science of DNA profiling is evolving so quickly, there are always new tricks of the trade to learn. The tradeoff? New developments in chemistry and technology now let Stoner produce genetic fingerprints from smaller amounts of genetic material than ever.

Even in the fictional world of television, Stoner notes characters often are shown using real forensic techniques. Still, these crime shows can give viewers some wrong ideas. For instance, Stoner says, “one cell doesn’t provide a full DNA profile. Also, you can’t collect DNA off of just anything.”

Last year, Stoner and her fellow DNA analysts in Nashville performed about 10,000 DNA tests on almost 5,700 pieces of evidence. “You’re always learning something, and every case is different,” Stoner says. “If you want to sit behind a desk and do the same thing day after day, this is not the job for you.”

E-I, E-I … oh!

While investigators discover some murder scenes very quickly, they may not find others for weeks, months or even years. By then, all that’s left of a victim might be a bare skeleton. Determining a victim’s identity, much less how and when he or she died, poses a challenge.

In such cases, investigators often turn to forensic anthropologists like William Bass, of the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. Bass and other experts often can identify victims even after they have been burned, mutilated or left to rot. For example, the length of the leg’s femur can reveal how tall a victim was. The shape of the pelvis can indicate a victim’s gender. Even the skull can provide clues about a victim’s gender and race.

In many cases, Bass says, the best clue to identifying a victim can come from pinning down when the person died. Even a range of dates can let investigators, relying on reports of missing persons, narrow the list of possible victims. It also can help support or refute the alibis of murder suspects.

Before the 1970s, estimating a victim’s date of death was more guesswork than science. “No one had really scientifically studied how bodies decompose,” observes Bass. So no one knew the answers to some simple — but grim — questions, such as: When do the teeth begin to fall out of the skull? At what point do the arms detach? What causes the greasy black stain beneath decomposing bodies (and how long does that last)?

In 1980, in an attempt to find some answers, Bass and another colleague at the University of Tennessee founded what’s now called the Forensic Anthropology Center. Today it is better known by its nickname: the Body Farm.

Corpses that end up at this 1-acre plot of land, alongside a river near the university’s downtown campus, aren’t crime victims. Instead, the bodies — what physicians refer to as cadavers — have been donated to science.

Each cadaver is a separate science experiment. The Body Farm’s cadavers include males and females of all ages. Researchers leave some cadavers lying in the sunshine on open ground; others they place in the shade beneath trees. Some are clothed, others naked. Leaves and branches cover some bodies. Others are buried in shallow graves — or even under a concrete slab. Some bodies are left to decompose in small sheds or buildings, while others are left in the trunks of cars. “There are thousands of possible variations, and we’re studying only a few,” Bass says.

Each variation reproduces a certain type of crime scene. By studying all aspects of body decomposition, over long periods, the researchers have compiled a wealth of data that law enforcement analysts can use.

Not surprisingly, bodies quickly decompose in summer, Bass says. “They can go from fresh body to a complete skeleton in only two weeks,” he notes. Maggots, or the larvae of blowflies, play a big role. These insects (Bass calls them “nature’s little helpers”) can swarm a body by the hundreds within minutes. “They’re the first insects to attack a body,” Bass observes.

But blowflies aren’t active at temperatures below 52°F (11.1°C). So during cold weather, decomposition slows dramatically. “You can leave a body out in November, and it can still be in pretty good shape until April or so,” the researcher says.

As gruesome as the work is, it’s still science. Bass and his colleagues use biology, anatomy, chemistry, entomology (the study of insects) and anthropology (the study of humans and their culture) to unravel each case.

“This is an interesting field, if you like puzzles,” says Bass, who is now retired but still collaborates on research projects.

Whatever the particular job, the challenges of finding answers makes forensics an interesting career for the curious. There is also the reward of helping fight crime — something Day, Stoner and Bass all say motivates them too.

Power Words

forensics The use of science and technology in investigating crimes.

anthropology The study of humans, their culture and sometimes the evolution of their physical traits.

arson The crime of intentionally setting a fire with the intent to cause damage.

cadaver A human corpse.

database An organized collection of information.

decomposition The process by which organic materials, including animal remains, break down over time.

DNA (Deoxyribonucleic acid) A molecule found in nearly all cells of all living organisms. This genetic material contains the instructions needed for the organism to develop, function and reproduce.

DNA fingerprint The unique set of genetic markers that identify an individual.

polymerase chain reaction (PCR) A biochemical process that repeatedly copies a particular sequence of DNA.

maggot The larva of a fly.

====== 47 ========

Cool Jobs: Pet science

A few years ago, a young Bengal cat was brought into the veterinary hospital at the University of California, Davis. Normally, when light shines into a cat’s eyes in the dark, the eyes appear to glow. But this kitty’s owner said the cat had unusual eye shine.

An animal ophthalmologist (OP-thoh-MOL-uh-jist) — a doctor that treats eyes — looked at the cat and discovered it was blind. He then called in Leslie Lyons. This cat geneticist, who now works at the University of Missouri–Columbia, studies DNA. Inside the cells of all living things, DNA holds the instructions for life.

Lyons and her colleagues began studying the cat and its relatives. All were born with normal vision, they found. Their blindness set in as they grew older. And the cause of the blindness was a mutation, or change, in a single gene.

“The cat,” Lyons notes, “is a model for human disease.” So are dogs and other animals. Understanding them and their genes can lead to treatments for human illnesses. But perhaps more importantly, pets matter because they are often more than just animals — they have been invited in to share the households of so many human families.

In the United States, we have a lot of these furry, scaled and feathered family members. There are 86 million cats, 78 million dogs and more than 100 million pet fish. And there are millions more horses, birds, reptiles and various small animals living with us.

Veterinarians and vet techs work to keep these animals healthy. They treat pets that are sick. But they aren’t the only experts who work with our cats, dogs and other animals. Here we meet three researchers who are working to keep our pets healthy and happy — and their owners, too.

Ninety-nine lives

From a young age, Lyons says, “I knew I wanted to be a scientist because I knew I always wanted to learn things.” But she didn’t set out to study cats. She got her PhD in human genetics. For her postdoctoral research, she worked at the National Cancer Institute. NCI is a government organization that studies human cancers. But researchers there discovered in the 1970s that a virus can cause cancer in cats. So NCI scientists began studying felines to see if they could provide insight into human disease.

“All mammals share their 19,000 genes or so. Very few are specific to a species,” Lyons explains. Whether an animal has a tail or whiskers, for example, depends on which of those genes are turned on or off. And because of that, she says, “Anything that we discover in a cat can absolutely be translated into something in humans as well.”

Lyons switched from studying humans to studying cats. Today, her “Lyons’ Den” lab at the University of Missouri focuses on finding mutations in cat genes that cause diseases or interesting traits. One example: the kinked tail of a Japanese bobtail cat.

Recently, Lyons has started a more ambitious project. She calls it “99 Lives.” That name is a play on a cat’s mythical nine lives. Lyons and other kitty researchers aim to sequence — chemically map — the genomes of 99 cats. (A genome is an organism’s entire set of DNA.)

A 4-year-old Abyssinian named Cinnamon was the first cat to have its genome sequenced. But while Cinnamon’s genes are similar to every other cat’s, they are not exactly the same. “Every genome is a little bit different,” Lyons points out. If scientists sequence the genomes of many cats, “then you start to understand … what are the important parts, what are the unimportant parts. Having one cat is a good start, but you need a bunch of cats to start understanding … the dynamics” — the variety and changes possible within those genes.

To sequence the genome of a cat or any animal, scientists start with a sample of tissue. Blood works well, and only a teaspoon or so is needed. They isolate DNA from inside the cells. That DNA ends up in pieces, in one big soup, Lyons explains. Chunks of DNA are taken out of the soup and sequenced. Analyze enough scoops and researchers will have most of the genome. Computer algorithms (sets of instructions) then assemble the partial sequences in order.

Having Cinnamon’s complete sequence, all of the genetic letters — in order — makes it easier and cheaper to sequence the DNA of other cats.

Cinnamon “gives us a reference,” Lyons explains. “Having Cinnamon is like having the picture on the front of the puzzle box.” Cinnamon’s sequence tells scientists the general order of the genome in other cats. That lets them sequence the genomes of other cats in days, instead of years. And they can do it for thousands of dollars, instead of millions.

Lyons and other cat geneticists have sequenced 53 cats so far (though not her own two, Withers and Figaro). Some are sick. Others are not. If scientists want to find a mutation that makes a cat ill, they need cats without the mutation for comparison. They even have two wild cats in their genome collection, a Pallas’s cat and a black-footed cat. “Wild [cats] will help find the sicknesses in domestic cats and vice versa,” Lyons says. They also can provide insight into cat evolution.

The 53 genome sequences now in hand are a powerful resource, Lyons says. “We’d love to get hundreds or thousands.” And one day, sequencing cat genomes may be so cheap and easy that any cat owner can send off a bit of cat tissue to get a sequence. “There’s no stopping at 99,” she says. “We just had a clever name.”

There’s a good doggie

Dogs are the most common pets in U.S. households. (There are more cats overall because many cat households are home to more than one.) “Dogs have a very intimate role in our lives,” says Clive Wynne. They live in our houses and even sleep on our beds.

Wynne is an animal psychologist at Arizona State University in Tempe. For a long time, such scientists studied animals that were easy to keep in cages in the lab, such as pigeons and rats. But now they study all sorts of animals. Wynne chose to work on dogs, in part because he was interested in dog behavior. But he also wanted to know more about the relationship between animals and people.

“Trying to understand dog behavior, how dogs work, how dogs think — these things are fun. But they’re fun with consequences,” he says. A badly behaved dog might bite a person. And if its behavior is bad enough, it might be sent to a shelter or even put to death.

Genetic evidence suggests that the relationship between dogs and humans began at least 15,000 years ago. But in many ways, scientists know less about dogs than about the rats and pigeons that they studied for so long. “It’s just astonishing how many simple, straightforward questions any middle-schooler might ask about their dog have never been the subject of scientific study,” Wynne says.

For example: Do dogs prefer vocal praise (“You are such a good doggie!”) or being petted? The answer might seem obvious to a dog owner. But no one had ever given the question a serious test. So Wynne and his then-graduate student Erica Feuerbacher (now at Carroll College in Helena, Mont.) decided to find out.

In their first experiment, a dog was placed in a pen with two people. One offered vocal praise. The other would pet the dog whenever it came near. Dogs spent more time, on average, near the person who petted them than with the one who said nice things. Shelter dogs seemed especially fond of being petted. Dogs that had owners often preferred the praise at first, if the person praising them was their owner. But even they eventually chose to spend more time with the person who pet them.

Feuerbacher and Wynne then performed a second test. They let each dog roam near an experimenter who, when the canine approached, either praised the dog or petted it. The researchers recorded how much time the dog spent near the human. Again, dogs spent more time with people when they offered petting.

Dogs indeed prefer petting over vocal praise, the researchers concluded.

“If you think that you can reward a dog by telling it it’s a good dog, well, your training method is not going to be terribly successful,” Wynne says. This is important to know, he says, because training is important. It’s how we teach dogs to guide blind people or detect bombs. It’s also how we get better pets that don’t dig up the garden or eat the family roast.

Wynne still talks to his own dog, Xethos. “I think it does me good,” he says. “It doesn’t have to be always about her.” But, he adds, if you really want to motivate a dog, use food. It trumps everything else.

Don’t lick your turtle

Though pets usually bring their owners a lot of joy, sometimes animals also can transmit disease. Often such illnesses are preventable. But to know how to stop their spread, scientists first need to know who is getting sick and why. That’s where Tory Whitten and her colleagues at the Minnesota Department of Health in St. Paul come in.

As an epidemiologist (EP-ih-dee-mee-OLL-oh-jist), Whitten tracks diseases in her state. She focuses on zoonoses (ZOO-uh-NO-sees). These are diseases that can be passed between animals and people. Whitten and her colleagues work on public health. This is different from what doctors do. “A doctor or veterinarian focuses very specifically on what’s troubling a certain person [or animal],” she explains. In public health, “we look at the bigger picture,” she says. This includes the whole population, including its animals, people — even environmental factors.

One disease of concern is salmonellosis (SAM-muh-nel-OH-sis). It’s caused by Salmonella bacteria. When infected, healthy human adults may develop some stomach cramping and diarrhea. They’ll feel bad for a few days, but then quickly get better. Older people and those with weakened immune systems (such as diabetics or cancer patients) can get more seriously ill. And young children may develop complications. These may include bloodstream infections or meningitis. Indeed, Whitten notes, “Little kids and infants are more likely to be hospitalized.”

People often catch Salmonella from tainted food. But pets, especially reptiles, are another important source of the bacteria. They have been linked to Salmonella outbreaks that start at schools, zoos and even potluck dinners. Whitten and her colleagues wanted to know more about salmonellosis cases tied to reptiles. That might help her team head off infections.

Since 1996, Minnesota has collected reports of salmonellosis from doctors. Staff from the state’s health department then talk to the sickened people (or their parents, if it’s a child). They ask about where the patient had been, what foods they had eaten before getting sick and any animals they had been near. If the patient had come in contact with a pet reptile, the interviewer also asked about the pet.

Between 1996 and 2011, more than 10,000 people became infected with Salmonella. Of those, 290 people had contact with a reptile during the week before they got sick. Those reptiles included snakes, lizards and turtles. Two-thirds of the patients had been under the age of 20. Nearly one-third were under the age of 5.

In 70 cases, the researchers were able to test the reptiles for germs. And 60 of the 70 were infected with the bacteria. These animals can pick up Salmonella from their environment. Snakes also can get it from the mice they have been fed.

Researchers have known for years that reptiles can pass Salmonella to people. And experts have recommended that schools with little kids, and homes with children under age 5, not keep pet reptiles. But this study showed how important it is to make sure that message reaches the public. It will help guide the state’s health communications.

Whitten says she’d also like places that sell reptiles to be a little more up front about the fact that these animals can carry Salmonella — “and maybe even do a little bit more on screening the person that’s buying it and making sure they don’t have anyone under the age of 5.” People can largely avoid the disease by washing their hands after touching a reptile. Unfortunately, little kids aren’t very good at that.

When Whitten was growing up, she wanted to be a veterinarian. But she got interested in public health while in college. She’s still helping animals, she says, just in a different way. Her department works not only to keep people safe from diseases spread by animals, but also to keep animals safe from illnesses spread by people. “We totally understand the importance of a human-animal bond and learning about animals,” she says, “and think that’s really important.”

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

Abyssinian cat A breed of shorthaired domestic cat with brown fur, a slender body and large, pointed ears. The first cat to have its genome sequenced was an Abyssinian named Cinnamon.

algorithm A group of rules or procedures for solving a problem in a series of steps. Algorithms are used in mathematics and in computer programs for figuring out solutions.

bacterium (plural bacteria) A single-celled organism. These dwell nearly everywhere on Earth, from the bottom of the sea to inside animals.

Bengal cat A breed of domestic cat that looks like a small leopard. These cats are hybrids of domestic cats and wild Asian leopard cats.

black-footed cat The smallest species of wild cat in Africa.

canid The biological family of mammals that are carnivores and omnivores. The family includes dogs, wolves, foxes, jackals and coyotes. Members of this family are known as canines.

cancer Any of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the rapid, uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells. The development and growth of cancers, also known as malignancies, can lead to tumors, pain and death.

cell The smallest structural and functional unit of an organism. Typically too small to see with the naked eye, it consists of watery fluid surrounded by a membrane or wall. Animals are made of anywhere from thousands to trillions of cells, depending on their size.

diabetes A disease where the body either makes too little of the hormone insulin (known as type 1 disease) or ignores the presence of too much insulin when it is present (known as type 2 diabetes).

DNA (short for deoxyribonucleic acid) A long, double-stranded and spiral-shaped molecule inside most living cells that carries genetic instructions. In all living things, from plants and animals to microbes, these instructions tell cells which molecules to make.

domestic animal A tame animal that commonly lives with people, such as a dog, cat or horse.

dynamic An adjective that signifies something is active, changing or moving. (noun) The change or range of variability seen or measured within something.

environment The sum of all of the things that exist around some organism or the process and the condition those things create for that organism or process. Environment may refer to the weather and ecosystem in which some animal lives, or, perhaps, the temperature, humidity and placement of components in some electronics system or product.

epidemiologist Like health detectives, these researchers figure out what causes a particular illness and how to limit its spread.

evolution A process by which species undergo changes over time, usually through genetic variation and natural selection. These changes usually result in a new type of organism better suited for its environment than the earlier type. The newer type is not necessarily more “advanced,” just better adapted to the conditions in which it developed.

gene (adj. genetic) A segment of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for producing a protein. Offspring inherit genes from their parents. Genes influence how an organism looks and behaves.

genetic Having to do with chromosomes, DNA and the genes contained within DNA. The field of science dealing with these biological instructions is known as genetics. People who work in this field are geneticists.

genome The complete set of genes or genetic material in a cell or an organism. The study of this genetic inheritance housed within cells is known as genomics.

immune system The collection of cells and their responses that help the body fight off infections and deal with foreign substances that may provoke allergies.

mammal A warm-blooded animal distinguished by the possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for feeding the young, and (typically) the bearing of live young.

meningitis A potentially deadly bacterial infection that affects the protective membranes, known as meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord. Symptoms may include a sudden fever, headache and stiff neck. Vomiting, sensitivity to light and confusion may also develop.

mutation Some change that occurs to a gene in an organism’s DNA. Some mutations occur naturally. Others can be triggered by outside factors, such as pollution, radiation, medicines or something in the diet. A gene with this change is referred to as a mutant.

National Cancer Institute The largest of the 21 institutes making up the National Institutes of Health. With a staff of almost 4,000 people, NCI is based in Bethesda, Md. It’s budget of almost $5 billion a year goes to support research — by its scientists and outside researchers — to better understand, diagnose and treat cancers.

ophthalmologists Physicians who specialize in the eye. They begin as general medical doctors and then get several additional years of training on diagnoses and treatment of problems affecting the eyes. Optometrists, in contrast, are doctors but are not trained as physicians (what in the United States are known as “medical” doctors).

Pallas’s cat A small wild cat native to Central Asia.

PhD (also known as a doctorate) A type of advanced degree offered by universities — typically after five or six years of study — for work that creates new knowledge. People qualify to begin this type of graduate study only after having first completed a college degree (a program that typically takes four years of study).

postdoctoral scholar (or post-doc) A research position for people who have just completed their doctorate in some field of study. It allows the individual to acquire new skills or pursue new lines of research on the road to a research career.

psychology The study of the human mind, especially in relation to actions and behavior. To do this, some perform research using animals. Scientists Scientists and mental-health professionals who work in this field are known as psychologists.

reptile A cold-blooded vertebrate animal whose skin is covered with scales or horny plates. Snakes, turtles, lizards and alligators are all reptiles.

rodent A mammal of the order Rodentia, a group that includes mice, rats, squirrels, guinea pigs, hamsters and porcupines.

Salmonella A genus of bacteria that can cause disease in people and animals.

salmonellosis An infection caused by Salmonella bacteria that causes abdominal cramps and diarrhea. For young children, the elderly and people with weakened immune systems, the disease can be serious and even deadly.

sequencing Technologies that determine the order of nucleotides or letters in a DNA molecule that spell out an organism’s traits.

species A group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce.

trait A characteristic feature of something. (in genetics) A quality or characteristic that can be inherited.

trump In certain card games, it’s a card that owing to some special feature (such as its suit) allows it to rank above all others. In pinochle, for instance, a 2 of the trump suit can capture even an ace of any other suit. (outside card games) Some feature or action that outperforms or tops all others.

veterinary Having to do with animal health. A doctor who specializes in treating animals is aveterinarian.

virus Tiny infectious particle consisting of RNA or DNA surrounded by protein. Viruses can reproduce only by injecting their genetic material into the cells of living creatures. Although scientists frequently refer to viruses as live or dead, in fact no virus is truly alive. It doesn’t eat like animals do, or make its own food the way plants do. It must hijack the cellular machinery of a living cell in order to survive.

zoonosis (plural: zoonoses) Any disease that originates in nonhuman animals and is later contracted by people. Many zoonotic diseases also spread among a host of non-human species. For instance, the type of swine flu that sickened people throughout the world in 2009 also infected marine mammals, including sea otters.

====== 48 ========

Wet suits with hair?

Otters are amazingly cute, no doubt. But these marine mammals also are amazing in another way. Although they often swim in waters that are 16° Celsius (61° Fahrenheit) or colder, they can maintain a warm body temperature of about 38 °C (100 °F). And they keep their body heat even without an insulating layer of blubber like whales, seals and sea lions. Now engineers are taking a clue from those otters. And one long-term end product may be hairy wet suits for people who dive in cold waters.

What’s the otters’ trick? They have the densest fur of any mammal. In an area of skin barely larger than a postage stamp (6.5 square centimeters, or 1 square inch), they grow about 1 million hairs. As they swim, that thick fur traps air next to the otter’s body. That prevents frigid water from soaking through to the skin, where it can sap body heat.

Some researchers are studying surfaces covered with forests of stubby rods that one day might lead to fur-inspired fabrics. Yes, furry wet suits. They’re not there yet. For now, they're learning things that can help manufacturers and engineers today.

On the surface

The roughness of a surface affects how well water soaks into it. So does its chemical recipe. Scientists have long studied those properties. And they have analyzed the effects of small bumps and tiny ridges. But few teams have studied how flexible structures such as hair affect a material’s ability to repel water, says Alice Nasto. She’s a mechanical engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. (A mechanical engineer is someone who uses physics and materials science to design, develop, build and test mechanical devices.)

Recently, Nasto and her co-workers took the first steps toward such fur-ish designs. They were inspired by how the dense fur of otters and fur seals help trap air next to the creatures’ skins. They were also inspired by the opportunity to help fill in gaps in basic knowledge in this area, says Nasto. For example: Could large-scale structures on a surface help increase its water repellence as well as tiny bumps and ridges do?

Answering that question, she notes, could help engineers solve a number of problems. They could come up with different techniques, for example, to boost how well a surface could resist getting soaked.

As a first step, the team probed how water repellent surfaces become when they’re covered with stiff, stubby structures. First, they used lasers to sculpt molds with hundreds of tubular holes. Then they filled those molds with a liquid rubber-like silicone. The silicone filled the holes and then flowed over the tops of them. That created stub-covered sheets when the material gelled. Finally, Nasto’s team dipped those rubber sheets into a container of water and watched what happened. The more slowly the water soaked into the forest of stubs and replaced the air trapped there, the more water repellent the surface was considered to be.

In its lab tests, the team studied the effects of changing the material’s properties. For example, they altered the size of the stubby structures and the distances between them. The researchers also studied the effect of dipping the surfaces into the water quickly instead of slowly.

They found that the longer and more closely spaced the structures were, the more time it took water to soak in. And plunging the surfaces into the water quickly trapped air for a longer time. Still, each of the surfaces eventually got soaked all the way through.

Nasto presented her team’s findings on November 23 in Boston, Mass., at the annual meeting of the American Physical Society’s division of fluid dynamics.

The team’s results “are very interesting and could be very useful,” says José Bico, who was not involved in the research. He works at the City of Paris Industrial Physics and Chemistry Higher Educational Institution in France. There, he studies fluid mechanics. That includes how liquids and gases flow under pressure.

The new findings could help engineers who design oddly shaped structures like car radiators, he notes. (Those devices have many flat, closely spaced surfaces, called fins, that radiate heat to cool a vehicle’s engine.) Manufacturers often dip such equipment into rustproofing liquids. But if the object isn’t held beneath the liquid long enough, the liquid doesn’t completely soak in. And when that happens, the equipment is more vulnerable to rust. The new data might offer engineers a better idea of how long a piece of equipment needs to be submerged for it to get a full coating of rustproofing liquid, Bico suggests.

Learning from otters

In the future, Nasto and her co-workers plan to study surfaces studded with longer and more flexible structures that better mimic hair. That research might answer several questions. For instance, how long, flexible and dense do the “hairs” have to be for them to create a fake fur that can trap air really well?

People looking to design such structures could learn a few things from otters, says Heather Liwanag. She’s a marine biologist at California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo. She studied otter fur when she was earning her PhD at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

For one thing, Liwanag notes, the longer and coarser hairs in an otter’s fur don’t have a circular cross section. Those hairs, called guard hairs, are oval. That shape helps them lay down in a consistent direction when they’re wet. Also, the hairs have tiny scalelike features on them. That helps the hairs lock together. That makes a flexible shell that locks out water and locks in air.

“Without its air-trapping layer of fur, an otter would need a layer of blubber so thick it would end up the size of a seal,” notes Liwanag.

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

blubber The thick layer of fat under a marine mammal’s skin that helps it stay warm even in cold waters. In the past, whalers would boil whale blubber to extract oil, which had many industrial uses.

engineer A person who uses science to solve problems. As a verb, to engineer means to desiogn a device, material or process that will solve some problem or unmet need.

fluid mechanics The study of the properties of fluids (liquids and gases) and their reactions to the forces acting upon them under various conditions.

guard hairs The longer and coarser (or stiffer) hairs that form the outer layer of a mammal’s fur (if that fur is layered).

laser A device that generates an intense beam of coherent light of a single color. Lasers are used in drilling and cutting, alignment and guidance, in data storage and in surgery.

mammal A warm-blooded animal distinguished by the possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for feeding the young, and (typically) the bearing of live young.

marine Having to do with the ocean world or environment.

marine biologist A scientist who studies creatures that live in ocean water, from bacteria and shellfish to kelp and whales.

mechanical Having to do with the devices that move, including tools, engines and other machines.

mechanical engineer Someone who uses physics and materials science to design, develop, build and test mechanical devices, including tools, engines and other machines.

PhD (also known as a doctorate) A type of advanced degree offered by universities — typically after five or six years of study — for work that creates new knowledge. People qualify to begin this type of graduate study only after having first completed a college degree (a program that typically takes four years of study).

radiate (in physics) To emit energy in the form of waves.

scuba diving A form of underwater diving in which the person carries special equipment in order to breathe, including a tank of air and a breathing mask. The word scuba is short for self-contained underwater breathing apparatus.

sea otter A member of the weasel family, sea otters have the densest fur known among animals. That helps keep them warm in frigid waters, because these marine mammals don’t produce blubber — a thick layer of fat — as do seals and walruses.

silicone Heat-resistant substances that can be used in many different ways, including the rubber-like materials that provide a waterproof seal around windows and in aquariums. Some silicones serve as grease-like lubricants in cars and trucks. Most silicones, a type of molecule known as a polymer, are built around long chains of silicon and oxygen atoms.

water repellency A material’s ability to repel water.

whale A common, but fairly imprecise, term for a class of large mammals that lives in the ocean. This group includes dolphins.

wet suit An outer rubber or rubber-like suit worn over the body (including arms and legs) when swimming in cold water. It helps preserve body heat and limit other risks to the skin of divers.

====== 49 ========

Tiny microrobots team up and move full-size car

A group of ants can move objects many times larger and heavier than themselves. This ability inspired a team of researchers to develop small robots that can do the same thing. The team created 29-millimeter (1.1-inch) long robots that can get a firm grip on the ground. In tests, six of the ‘bots have just worked together to tow a full-size car.

They didn't move the car quickly. To haul it 12.5 centimeters (5 inches) took about one minute.

When ants carry a large item, such as a piece of food, they need good traction. To get a better grip, each ant presses its feet down harder. This increases the area of contact between each foot and the surface. Such ants served as the inspiration for David Christensen and his team of mechanical engineers at Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif. (Mechanical engineers use physics and materials science to design tools and machines.)

Ants can cling to a smooth wall or surface using small pads on their feet. When an ant puts its foot down, a tiny droplet of sticky gel oozes between the pad and wall. This holds the ant in place. When walking, only tiny bits of the ant’s feet stick to the ground. That makes it easy for the ant to move quickly. The mechanical engineers wanted to create miniscule robots capable of moving big, heavy objects. But robots can’t ooze liquid the way ants do. Using sticky gel wasn’t an option for the tiny ’bots. So the researchers turned their attention to gecko feet.

Making sure-footed microrobots

The bottom of a gecko’s foot has layers of tissue covered with tiny hairs. When the critter puts weight on the foot, those structures spread out. This increases contact between the foot and the surface to which the gecko clings. That contact allows van der Waals forces to hold the foot onto the surface. Van der Waals forces are tiny electrical attractions between molecules. By increasing the surface area between its foot and a leaf, wall or other object, the gecko uses enough van der Waals force to stay in place. Such stickiness is called adhesion (Ad-HE-zhun).

Adhesion is one step, Christensen points out. But just as important is the ability to release the connection. Otherwise, he explains, “an insect or robot would become stuck and could not move.” So the team designed its robot based on the need to both stick and easily release its “foot.”

To do this, they created a 25-millimeter by 25-millimeter (1-inch by 1-inch) foot for their 29-millimeter long robot. They covered the underside of that foot with tiny wedges of a rubberlike substance made of silicone. Each wedge was just 0.1-millimeter (0.004-inch) long. When the robot rested on the ground, only the tips of a foot’s wedges touched down. But when a foot moved forward, the wedges laid down flat, increasing contact with the floor. Like the gecko’s foot, this triggered an increase in the van der Waals force, anchoring the foot in place.

Flattening the wedges also added spring energy to them. Think of a spring that has been pressed together. When released, the coils burst apart. The same kind of energy in the wedges allowed them to spring loose when they were released.

The team ended up with a tiny robot that they called μTug. (In science, the Greek letter μ, or mu, means “micro”.) The μTug has a single foot and two wheels for traveling, plus a winch that could reel in a heavy object, known as a payload, which is connected by a string.

The μTug moves forward on its wheels then squats down, anchoring firmly to the ground with its foot. Now it uses the winch to haul the payload closer. The foot then releases and the string unwinds as the ’bot wheels forward. Then it stops and repeats the anchoring, winching and release.

By this means, the 12-gram (0.26-ounce) μTug was able to pull a 22.5-kilogram (50-pound) payload. That means the microrobot hauled nearly 2,000 times its own weight!

Working together

The next step was to see if μTugs could work together, as ants do. And if they could, were they better at doing so than other types of microrobots?

The team compared several kinds of microrobots: μTug, Hexbug Nano and Hexbug Scarab. Hexbug Nanos have 12 bristlelike legs. This allows them to jitter across the ground. Hexbug Scarabs have six legs that move independently. The researchers measured how well each robot could haul a payload.

Then the scientists put the different robots into teams. Each group initially had two robots, then three, then four. The researchers kept adding one and testing the group until they had tested six Scarabs (walking and running), six μTugs and 20 Nanos.

Hexbug Nanos and running Scarabs weren’t able to pull effectively in groups, Christensen found. Walking Scarabs performed better in larger groups than alone. That’s because walking robots stayed in contact with the ground. This gave them better traction as they pulled, allowing them to haul together in sync.

PULL TOGETHER NOW Watch six μTugs pull a car. bdmlstanford

But the most successful teamed robots were μTugs. When working together, six of these could pull six times more than one μTug alone. This is due to their adhesive feet, which allows the microrobots to synchronize their pulling. In fact, those six μTugs pulled Christensen’s 1,800-kilogram (almost 4,000-pound) 2014 Chevy Volt.

The team reported its findings online on February 15 in IEEE Robotics and Automation.

“Cars take less force to move because of their wheels,” he explains. “That's why the weight is so big compared to what you would expect for our robots,” he says. Without those wheels, six μTugs could slide only 12,000 times the body weight of a single μTug, or about 135 kilograms (298 pounds), across a glass surface. But it would take more than 4,000 Nano bristlebots to pull the same car, he notes.

Christensen says μTugs have potential for use in disaster relief. They could scurry through and search rubble. Then, he says, “They can work together in teams to move it off victims, open doors or turn safety valves.”

“This is exciting work,” says Aaron Becker. A computer engineer who was not involved with the study, he works at the University of Houston in Texas. The tiny robots are capable of producing astounding force, he notes. “I'd like to see [the researchers] describe how these robots can scale down to millimeter and micro-meter size.”

====== 50 ========

Scientists Say: Your weekly word

Scientists Say (noun, “SIGH-en-tists Sae”)

Every week in our blog Scientists Say, science education writer Bethany Brookshire highlights a new science word, from absolute zero to zooplankton. Each word has a definition and is used in a sentence to help you understand the meaning. There’s even an audio recording, so you can hear exactly how to pronounce the term. All the words covered so far are listed below. Got a word you want to know about? Tweet to @eureka_labs and put in a request!

A

Absolute zero

Acid

Acidification

Acoustic

Albedo

Allele

Amino acid

Ampere

Amusia

Amygdala

Archaea

Atomic number

ATP

Aufeis

Autophagy

Autopsy

B

Base

Biofilm

Biomagnify

Blood-brain barrier

Bog

Bromeliad

Bruxism

C

Capsaicin

Carcinogen

Catalyst

Chlorophyll

Chromosome

Circadian

Climate

Colloid

Comet

Continent

Copepod

Coprolite

Cortical homunculus

Crepuscular

CT scan

Cyanide

Cyclone

D

Dark matter

Data

Diffraction

Dioxide

Dire wolf

Diurnal

DNA sequencing

Domestication

Dung

Dwarf planet

E

Eclipse

Ectoparasite

eDNA

Endocytosis

Epidermis

Eutrophication

Exocytosis

Exoplanet

Extremophile

F

Fatty acid

Forensics

Fracking

Frequency

Frostbite

Fulgurite

G

Glia

Goldilocks zone

Gradient

Graphene

Gravitational lens

Guttation

H

Hibernaculum

Hibernation

Hippocampus

Histology

Hoodoo

Hormone

Hurricane

Hyperthermia

Hypothermia

I

Inclusion

Inflammation

Infrared

Insulin

Intron

Invasive species

Ion

Ionosphere

Irruption

Isotope

J

Jet stream

Joule

K

Kakapo

Kelp

Kelvin

Keratin

Kevlar

Kinetic energy

Krill

L

Lactose

Larva

Laser

Loci

Locus

Luminescence

M

Melatonin

Microbiome

Microplastic

Mitochondrion

MRI

Mutation

N

Neandertal

Nebula

Necropsy

Nematocyst

Nematode

Neurotransmitters

Neutron star

Nocturnal

O

Oort cloud

Organic

Osmosis

Ozone

P

Parasite

Pareidolia

Parthenogenesis

Peptide

Permafrost

Photochromic

Photovoltaic

Plankter

Plastisphere

Poisonous

Potential energy

Precipitation

Proxima b

Proxima centauri

Q

Quantum

Quartile

Quoll

R

Rabies

Radar

Radioactive

Receptor

Refraction

Remission

Replication

Runoff

S

Salt

Satellite

Saturated fat

Social

Solution

Speleology

Stalactite

Stalagmite

Stereotype

Stomata

Strain

Stratigraphy

Sublimation

Supernova

Surface tension

Synapse

T

Taphonomy

Tinnitus

Torpor

Torque

Toxin

Transit

Triclosan

Tundra

Typhoon

U

Ultrasound

Umami

Uncertainty

Understory

Unsaturated fat

Upwelling

Urushiol

V

Vacuole

Vampire

Vector

Venomous

Ventral striatum

Vestigial

Virulence

Viscosity

W

Watt

Wavelength

Weather bomb

Wormhole

X

X-axis

Xylem

Y

Y-axis

Yeast

Yellow dwarf

Yottawatt

Z

Zika

Zoonosis

Zooplankton

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

====== 51 ========

Our readability scores target tweens & teens

Science News for Students is dedicated to reporting on current events in STEM fields that will be accessible to tweens and teens. Yet even adults should find the stories informative and engaging. What’s more, those stories are compatible with the new U.S. Common Core standards for language arts.

In its commitment to ensuring that our stories will be accessible to all students in at least sixth grade, we have for years been holding the readability measures of all stories to a middle-school score. We now also report those scores at the bottom of each piece, in the Power Words section.

Our site measures readability with the Flesch-Kincaid algorithm. It weighs the number of syllables and words in each sentence and accounts for the punctuation used. The resulting score represents the anticipated number of years of education required to readily understand the article as a whole. As an example, a readability score of 7 would indicate that the article should be readily accessible to any student from at least the beginning of seventh grade (and younger, if students read above grade level).

So these scores represent the general minimum age for which the material should be readily accessible. Scores tend to vary between 6 and 8 (physics and math pieces may skew a bit higher, although still usually well below 9). The average readability score on the site is about 7.

Clearly, long names, long scientific terms and long researcher affiliations can conspire to bring scores up. Still, we don’t dumb anything down. And that means we don’t remove such often vital information for the sake of lowering a readability score. Rather we tweak sentence length where possible and offer a host of definitions (check out all of those Power Words at the bottom) to help students parse the explanations of research design and STEM-related mechanisms of action.

====== 52 ========

Gene editing creates mice with no mom

For the first time, mice have been born with no moms. Researchers created them from genetic material retrieved from two dads. Alas, the pups did not live long.

Similar mice created with no dads, fared better. Those that were born tended to survive into adulthood. Some even gave birth to their own pups.

Scientists had to edit the animals’ genes for either type of moms-only or dads-only pups to be born. That’s why this unusual reproduction took place in a lab.

Researchers started by turning skin cells from male mice into stem cells. Such cells can later become any type of cell. Biologists turned the stem cells into a type similar to those that become eggs or sperm. Then they injected these pre-egg cells with sperm from another male. These grew into embryos. Finally, the scientists implanted the embryos into female mice. Although those females gave birth to the mouse pups, they were not genetically related.

The researchers described their novel findings October 11 in Cell Stem Cell.

Pups without pops

The researchers wanted to learn why mammals need two parents of opposite sexes to reproduce.

Sperm from one parent usually are needed to fertilize an egg from the other parent. But certain non-mammals can sometimes reproduce with only one parent. These include turkeys, snakes and sharks, notes study coauthor Qi Zhou. Zhou works at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing. Females of those species can sometimes make young from an unfertilized egg. This process is called parthenogenesis (PAR-then-oh-JEN-eh-sis).

Researchers had made zebrafish before that had only the DNA of one father. But until now, no one had gotten mammals to reproduce without moms.

This adult female mouse has two biological mothers. She survived to have pups of her own. LEYUN WANG

For their new study, scientists started by making mouse pups with two mothers. These pups were smaller than usual and born with some abnormalities.

The problem: Some genes that the pups inherited from their mothers were “marked.” The marks are molecules called methyl groups. They are attached to DNA near a gene. This type of epigenetic marking — also known as imprinting — can make genes more or less active.

To avoid this, the researchers used a type of molecular “scissors.” It snipped out three imprinted DNA regions near important genes. These scissors are known as CRISPR/Cas9. The scientists edited the DNA of female pre-sperm stem cells in this way. Then they injected the edited cells into eggs from other female mice to make embryos.

The researchers implanted 210 of these embryos in female mice. About 14 percent of them survived to birth. These pups grew normally and became adults. These dad-free females later gave birth to their own pups. This result matched what the researchers had seen before.

Mice minus moms

Making embryos from the stem cells of two male mice wasn’t nearly as successful.

Male-only reproduction is called androgenesis (An-droh-JEN-eh-sis).

To make embryos from the stem cells of two dads, the researchers had to snip out twice as many imprinted pieces of DNA — six, not three.

Then they implanted 1,023 of these embryos into female mice. Out of all these embryos, only 1.2 percent survived to birth. Those pups were twice the normal size and soon died. Cutting out a seventh imprinted DNA region produced pups of normal size. But only two of these lived more than 48 hours. Neither lived to become an adult.

(The researchers point out that even in their study, they couldn’t get away with having no females at all. After all, females had to carry the embryos with two dads in their wombs. For that reason, it would be extremely hard for males to have babies on their own in the wild.)

This work is an important first step in understanding the role of imprinted regions in fetal development, says B. Duygu Özpolat. She’s a developmental biologist at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass. She was not involved in the new work.

Imprinting errors are important to understand. They underlie some human birth defects and genetic conditions. So knowing how the process works might help scientists one day correct those defects, Özpolat says.

For instance, the Chinese team notes that one of the imprinted regions snipped out of the two-mom mice is similar to a region in people. When a human gets an extra copy of that piece of DNA, they develop what’s known as Silver-Russell syndrome. Fetuses and babies with the extra imprinted bit don’t grow normally. In the future, snipping out the extra imprinted DNA might lead to healthy babies, these researchers say.

Making mammals from parents of the same sex might also offer some help to certain endangered species, Özpolat says. Some species are represented only by animals of one sex. For instance, the last male northern white rhinoceros died earlier this year, leaving just two females. Gene editing might help researchers bring white rhinos back by making all-female populations from stem cells grown in labs.

Although possible, Özpolat says, “It might be too expensive, and might not work for every species. But it’s something.”

Some human same-sex couples hope to have a biological baby together. But, Özpolat says, “that’s the far future.” Right now, it remains just a dream.

Zhou adds that it could be too dangerous to try this technique in people. There’s no guarantee that the imprinted regions involved in mouse reproduction are the same ones involved in people. In fact, he adds, using this technique with people “is not one of our goals.”

====== 53 ========

Analyze This: A good reason to drive with an adult in the car

For many teens, getting a driver's license is an important milestone and a step toward independence. But having a license doesn’t ensure a teen will drive safely. Car accidents are the leading cause of teen deaths in the United States. And newly licensed teen drivers are twice as likely to have a fatal car crash per mile traveled as are teens who have been driving for a year or two. That’s according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Here’s the good news. Teens who have learner permits and drive with an adult in the car seem to be fairly safe drivers. And even with a license, they tend to be safer drivers if there is an adult riding along. These findings come from a July study in the Journal of Adolescent Health.

In that new study, researchers outfitted 90 cars with sensors, cameras and GPS devices for at least 21 months. This allowed them to track and record drivers’ behaviors on the road. For the nine or so months that these teens had only a learner’s permit, they had to drive with a parent or adult guardian. During the year or so after the teens had gotten their licenses, they tended to drive solo. The researchers compared data from novice drivers or teens who had recently received a license to those from more experienced adult drivers.

Scientists refer to one type of on-the-road events as KRDs. That’s short for kinematic (Kin-eh-MAT-ik) risky driving. This class of erratic behaviors affect a car’s motions. These include how many times drivers braked suddenly, how often they accelerated quickly or how many times they turned sharply per 1,600 kilometers (1,000 miles) traveled.

Such erratic behaviors make it harder for the driver to quickly respond to a sudden change in traffic. That might be an abrupt slow-down due to an accident up ahead. Or it could include a truck that suddenly swerves because of a flat tire. These KRD events also make it hard for adjacent drivers to predict what a vehicle will do. Researchers hope that finding ways for teen drivers to reduce KRDs might cut their risk of auto accidents.

This graph plots the number of kinematic risky driving (KRD) events for each group studied: experienced male (M) and female (F) adult drivers and novice (M and F) teen drivers. Data were collected for a minimum of 21 months. The vertical dotted line in the center marks when the teens received their driver’s licenses. IR stands for Incident Rate, or how many times a KRD event was recorded per 1,600 kilometers (1,000 miles) traveled. P. Girshon et al/Journal of Adolescent Health 2018

Click here, or on the graph, for a larger image.

Data Dive:

Compare the data for novice drivers (males and females) during the learner period (left) to independent driving. Which group saw the biggest increase in risky driving events?

Which group saw the smallest change in risky driving events?

These drivers were all volunteers from southwestern Virginia, a rural area near the Appalachian Mountains. How might the geography of where the volunteers drove affected their driving behaviors?

How might the data vary in a more densely populated urban area? Why?

Is it possible that volunteers might drive differently than other drivers? How? Do you think this would be a short or long-term effect?

Was this graph difficult to understand? Why?

What would improve this graph or make it easier to read? Explain.







Analyze This! explores science through data, graphs, visualizations and more. Have a comment or a suggestion for a future post? Send an email to sns@sciencenews.org.

====== 54 ========

Analyze This: How hot will it get?

Global temperatures have risen by an average of 1 degree Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) since 1850. That’s when people began using fossil fuels in high quantities to provide energy. Burning that coal, oil and natural gas boosted the amount of greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere each year. That has added to the thermal “blanket” surrounding the planet. With a heavier blanket, temperatures on the ground began to rise. And it will continue to get warmer in the coming years and decades.

There are a number of different ways to see the effects of those rises in average temperature. One is by comparing the number of days each year that reach 35° Celsius (95° Fahrenheit) or higher. Another is looking at average temperatures for a single season, such as summer.

But just as weather isn’t the same from place to place, temperatures have been rising at different rates in different places. Temperatures in Alaska, for instance, have been rising twice as fast as those across the rest of the globe.

These maps below compare late 20th century temperatures to projections for the mid–21st century. The number of days each year above 35° Celsius (95° Fahrenheit) is expected to rise across the United States. Average summer temperatures will reach new heights if greenhouse gas emissions remain high. U.S. Global Climate Change Research Program

Data Dive:

1. Read the caption. Find your state (or pick a U.S. state if your state isn’t shown or you live outside the United States). Explain what each map tells you about that state. Be as detailed as possible, give appropriate units and explain the timeframe of the data shown.



2. Look at the map labeled “Change in number of days above 95˚ F.” Do you notice any general trends for different parts of the country? Describe them.



3. Look at the map labeled “Change in average summer temperatures.” Do you notice any general trends for different parts of the country? Where will temperatures rise the most? Where will they rise the least?



4. What is the overall purpose of these visualizations? Why are they paired together here? Is one map more effective at communicating the overall temperature trend than the other? Explain.



5. What information is missing from these maps that you would like to know? Explain.

Analyze This! explores science through data, graphs, visualizations and more. Have a comment or a suggestion for a future post? Send an email to sns@sciencenews.org.

====== 55 ========

Bacteria and bugs will save us from the zombie apocalypse

The zombie apocalypse is upon us. Hordes of the undead shamble through the streets, hunting for food. But there’s no need for the living to barricade themselves within homes, offices and shopping malls. It’s just Halloween. The zombie hordes that clog the streets are after candy, not brains. And the chainsaw-wielding zombie fighter and that heroine bearing a sword are just fellow trick-or-treaters. But if there really were zombies coming for our brains, we wouldn’t need chainsaws or swords to save us. Microbes, maggots and time are far better weapons.

After a person dies, explains Kimberlee Moran, their body isn’t going to get up and start shuffling out the door. Moran would know. She’s a forensic archeologist — someone who studies human remains to find out about the past. She works at Rutgers University in Camden, N.J. “The idea that zombies can move at all is just completely wrong,” she says. “They’re not going anywhere.”

A dead body doesn’t have anything to drive it, Moran says. “The brain controls the movement of the body through the electrical impulses from the brain through the nervous system.” When a person dies, those electrical impulses disappear, and any potential shambling of the undead disappears with them.

Even if a mad scientist or evil alien virus managed to get those electrical impulses going again, Moran notes, moving would be tough. “The first thing to hamper the shuffling would be rigor mortis,” she says. When a person dies, their cells don’t immediately die. Many of the processes that take place within them keep going. But since breathing has stopped, these cells are no longer getting any oxygen.

That oxygen is needed to charge a cell’s batteries. Muscle cells (and all the cells in the body) rely on a molecule called adenosine triphosphate, or ATP. They use that ATP when they contract and relax. That energy loss transforms ATP into adenosine diphosphate, or ADP. Then, with the help of oxygen, a chemical process loads up the ADP with energy, transforming it back into ATP that can be used again.

Without oxygen, that recycling process stops. But cells are not left with uncharged ADP batteries. Anaerobic activity — energy production without oxygen — turns on to keep the cells going for a little while

Anaerobic activity has a big downside, though. It produces a product called lactic acid, Moran says. That can be used for a short time to turn ADP to ATP again. “It’s enough to cause muscles to contract but not enough for them to relax again,” she says. “Without the ADP-ATP recycling, the muscles stay contracted.” The body locks up “into a giant cramp.” Rigor mortis begins between three and six hours after death, and it will definitely keep a zombie off the streets.

A broken-down body

Long before rigor mortis sets in, the body has started to break down, Moran notes. Cells contain enzymes that can digest cells. When cells are alive, they carefully store those enzymes in pockets away from the rest of the cell, where they process waste. But after death, those enzymes are released and begin to chew through their former homes, a process called autolysis. “The cell breaks open and goo comes out,” Moran says. “Everything soft and squishy eventually liquifies.” That includes muscles and organs — leaving very little for a zombie to shamble with.

Those enzymes aren’t the only things going rogue. The bacteria in a person’s guts keep on eating. And without food coming down the gullet, they’ll chew through the gut and whatever else is in their way. “You have a relationship with the bacteria that live in your gut where there’s no oxygen,” Moran explains. “But when you die, no food is coming in. The bacteria get restless and start digesting the host.”

That process is called putrefaction, and it produces the strong, stomach-turning odors we associate with death. “No one talks about how bad [a zombie] smells,” Moran says. “You should be able to smell it coming!”

Bugging bodies

People won’t be the only ones to smell the dead. Help flies in, drawn by the scent. “The blowflies are there first,” explains Nancy Miorelli. “They have sensitive antennae and can smell a body from between 10 and 12 miles [16 and 19 kilometers] away. They show up within minutes.” Miorelli is a science communicator and entomologist — someone who studies insects — in Quito, Ecuador.

Blowflies don’t have a taste for human flesh. But their babies do. Blowflies and other fly species lay eggs on the corpse. Those eggs hatch into maggots, eager to slurp up the liquifying body. “The super goopy stage at the beginning usually has maggots,” Miorelli explains. “It’s all fly [maggots] because flies have a liquid diet.”

The maggots slurp up what the cells and bacteria leave behind. “That leaves your hair, tendons, skin, bones — the tough stuff,” Miorelli says. That tougher material may stick around for longer, but even it eventually gets broken down, too. Beetles arrive to lend a hand — or rather, a mouth. “They have chewing mouth parts, and they can chew and break down the stuff the flies couldn’t do,” she says.

“In perfect conditions,” and without bugs, Moran says, “a body will become skeletonized in one to two years.” But location matters. Warm environments can speed up the process. A lot. “In the Amazon, it’s one to two months.”

Add a few bugs, and, Miorelli says, you can go from months to mere weeks. That doesn’t leave a lot of time for zombie shambling.

The position of the corpse also matters. Maggots are legless, worm-shaped larvae, so they tend to fall off surfaces that aren’t flat. If a body is lying down, decay it would be faster because the maggots wouldn’t fall off. If the zombie were walking, though, “they would be leaving a trail of maggots,” Miorelli says.

A cool environment can slow the process. Microbes and bugs alike work best in warm weather. Cold weather could help a zombie hold itself together for much longer — months or even years. “Antarctica, parts of Canada, that’s where zombies would be scary,” Miorelli says.

But Moran is reassuring. Even when dead bodies stay fresh, they won’t ever be coming for your brains. “If a person is truly dead ... there’s no shuffling after somebody,” Moran says. “If they’re shuffling, they’re not technically dead.”

So movies, books and games about the undead shouldn’t keep you up at night, she says. Biology and bugs have zombies well in hand. “You shouldn’t lose sleep over zombies.”

Technically Fiction is a blog that finds the science in the realm of the fantastic. Have a comment or a suggestion for a future post? Send an email to sns@sciencenews.org.

====== 56 ========

The five-second rule: Growing germs for science

View the video

Many clumsy, hungry people have sworn by the five-second rule. This is the idea that if you drop a piece of food and pick it up before five seconds have passed, it’s still clean enough to safely eat (at least, if it doesn’t have any hairs or obvious dirt on it). But are bacteria really polite enough to wait five seconds before hopping on board?

We’re putting this five-second rule to the test in the latest DIY Science video. And in our first blog post, we came up with a hypothesis and figured out how many conditions we would need to test in that experiment.

Before we get to dropping food, though, we need a way to measure how clean or dirty that food becomes. (We also need supplies. Check the end of this post to see a full list of what’s needed and how much it all costs.)

Bacteria are small. We can’t see them with the unaided eye. So how will we keep count? We’ll need to culture any microbes on the food. That means growing them into colonies that are large enough to see.

To do that, we’ll transfer any bacteria from the food onto a substance they would like to eat. We used agar — a gel material made from algae, yeast or animal proteins. It comes as a liquid or a powder. The powdered form must be mixed with distilled water to create the gel. Here’s how:

Place 6 grams (0.2 ounce) of agar powder in a clean glass or beaker and add 100 milliliters (3.4 ounces) of distilled water.

Stir the mix until the agar has dissolved completely.

Microwave the mix on high until it comes to a frothy boil (about 45 seconds). Be careful! The glass will be very hot.

Take out the glass, stir the contents and then microwave it again until the mixture boils (another 30 seconds). By this point, the agar should be a golden color and smell a bit like meat.

Let the mixture cool until the glass is safe to touch.

Pour the liquid into petri dishes — shallow plastic dishes used to grow bacteria. The agar should cover the bottom of each dish.

Put each dish on a towel to dry, partially covered by its lid. The agar will start to firm in about 10 to 20 minutes.

Once the dishes are dry, they can be used right away or stored in plastic bags in the refrigerator. Before you start your experiment, label your petri dishes with a permanent marker to make sure you can keep track of which plate is which. I used a system for mine that included the floor I was testing (clean or dirty), the time (five or 50 seconds) and the plate number.

Keep it clean!

Bacteria are everywhere. They’re on the floor, in the air and on your hands. For our experiment, though, we had to make sure that the bacteria that grew on the plates came only from the dropped food — not from anywhere else.

To lessen the chance the experiment would be contaminated, I wore a lab coat and lab gloves (you can buy gloves made of latex or nitrile that you throw away after one use). Any glass or spoons were boiled in a pot of water with a little bit of bleach, to ensure they were completely clean. And I used a spray bottle containing 70 percent ethanol — a type of alcohol — and 30 percent water to clean any surface used, wiping everything dry with fresh paper towels.

Lit candles placed around the experiment also helped to keep other microbes away. Candle flames bring in cooler air from below. As it warms, this air rises, creating a small updraft — an air current moving toward the ceiling. This should help prevent germs in the air from settling on the meat or agar.

Make sure you have an adult around if you’re going to work around open flames. Also, don’t play with the spray bottle! Ethanol will cause plenty of misery if it gets in your eyes.

Bologna bombs away!

In our previous post, we determined that we will need six groups of plates — one group for each test condition. We are also making six replicates of each test. That gives us a need for 36 plates. There’s a control with no bologna and a control slice of undropped meat. There is also bologna dropped on clean and dirty sections of floor for either five or 50 seconds.

For the clean section, I wiped down a floor tile as carefully as possible with an ethanol-water mixture. For the dirty floor, I smeared coffee grounds, eggs, vegetable parts and fruit cores onto a tile (definitely the best part). Then I wiped the mess off so the floor tile looked clean.

I swabbed the dropped bologna carefully and thoroughly before swabbing a petri dish. Explainr

I cut the lunch meat into quarters and dropped these pieces onto the clean and dirty floor tiles, waiting five or 50 seconds before picking them up. For the clean tile, I made sure to re-clean the tile in between each drop. Each time I picked up a piece of dropped bologna, I rubbed a cotton swab six times all over the side that had touched the floor. For my control — where nothing happened at all — I dipped a cotton swab in a small beaker of distilled water.

I now carefully dragged the cotton swab from each sample across an agar plate in a zigzag pattern. I then turned the plate 90 degrees (about a quarter of a turn) and repeated the zigzag swab. I repeated this turn-and-zigzag action twice more. That ensured complete coverage of the plate. (A diagram for this zigzag swabbing technique can be found here.)

Microbes can be found in almost any environment. But we’re most concerned with ones that might make us sick. These germs will be found among the microbes that can grow at a human body temperature, 37° Celsius (98.6° Fahrenheit). So we need a way to keep our petri dishes at that temperature to let the microbes grow.

That means we need an incubator — a device that keeps a constant temperature. Lab incubators can be very expensive. Cheap incubators meant for hatching chicken eggs are available for about $20. But you build one on your own for even less. This slideshow will tell you how. (Hint: Make the incubator at least a week before you need it because you may need a few days to figure out how many holes it will need to maintain a stable temperature inside.)





After the experiment, I placed the petri dishes in the incubator, upside down. As the plates warm in the incubator, any liquid in them will start to evaporate. The agar could dry out, and then the microbes might not grow. With the plates upside down, any water will rise onto the agar. Place a cup of distilled water in the incubator. It will keep the air inside humid and microbe-friendly.

Every 24 hours for the next three days, I removed each dish and took a picture of it with a smartphone. Those images will be necessary for counting the colonies.

In the next blog post, you’ll find out how many colonies of microbes grew on those plates.

Materials list

For the experiment

70 percent ethanol ($2.19)

Roll of paper towels ($0.98)

Permanent marker (to label petri dishes) ($2.97)

Nitrile or latex gloves ($4.24)

Cotton-tipped swabs ($1.88)

Candles ($9.99)

60 x 15 mm sterile petri dishes (two packs of 20) ($6.35 per pack)

Glass beakers ($21.70)

Nutrient agar ($49.95)

Distilled water ($1.00)

Microwave ($35.00)

Food for dropping (bologna, one package) ($2.99)

A digital or smartphone camera

Ruler (metric) ($0.99)

Small digital scale ($11.85)

A book of matches

For the incubator

Styrofoam cooler ($7.47)

25-watt lightbulb and wiring ($6.47)

Remote digital thermometer ($14.48)

Knife ($3.19)

Duct tape ($2.94)

28 cm x 35.5 cm (or 11 x 14 inch) picture frame, glass or plastic front only ($1.99)

Is the five-second rule really true? We’ve designed an experiment to find out. Explainr

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

====== 57 ========

Astronomers finally find the cosmic source of gold and silver

(for more about Power Words, click here)

astronomy The area of science that deals with celestial objects, space and the physical universe. People who work in this field are called astronomers.

astrophysics An area of astronomy that deals with understanding the physical nature of stars and other objects in space. People who work in this field are known as astrophysicists.

atomic Having to do with atoms, the smallest possible unit that makes up a chemical element.

black hole A region of space having a gravitational field so intense that no matter or radiation (including light) can escape.

cataclysm An enormous, violent, natural event. A meteor hitting Earth and wiping out most living species would qualify as a cataclysmic event.

constant Continuous or uninterrupted.

constellation Patterns formed by prominent stars that lie close to each other in the night sky. Modern astronomers divide the sky into 88 constellations, 12 of which (known as the zodiac) lie along the sun’s path through the sky over the course of a year. Cancri, the original Greek name for the constellation Cancer, is one of those 12 zodiac constellations.

core Something — usually round-shaped — in the center of an object.

cosmic An adjective that refers to the cosmos — the universe and everything within it.

debris Scattered fragments, typically of trash or of something that has been destroyed. Space debris, for instance, includes the wreckage of defunct satellites and spacecraft.

decay (for radioactive materials) The process whereby a radioactive isotope — which means a physically unstable form of some element — sheds energy and subatomic particles. In time, this shedding will transform the unstable element into a slightly different but stable element. For instance, uranium-238 (which is a radioactive, or unstable, isotope) decays to radium-222 (also a radioactive isotope), which decays to radon-222 (also radioactive), which decays to polonium-210 (also radioactive), which decays to lead-206 — which is stable. No further decay occurs. The rates of decay from one isotope to another can range from timeframes of less than a second to billions of years.

electromagnetic An adjective referring to light radiation, to magnetism or to both.

electromagnetic radiation Energy that travels as a wave, including forms of light. Electromagnetic radiation is typically classified by its wavelength. The spectrum of electromagnetic radiation ranges from radio waves to gamma rays. It also includes microwaves and visible light.

element (in chemistry) Each of more than one hundred substances for which the smallest unit of each is a single atom. Examples include hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, lithium and uranium.

field An area of study, as in: Her field of research was biology. Also a term to describe a real-world environment in which some research is conducted, such as at sea, in a forest, on a mountaintop or on a city street. It is the opposite of an artificial setting, such as a research laboratory.

galaxy A massive group of stars bound together by gravity. Galaxies, which each typically include between 10 million and 100 trillion stars, also include clouds of gas, dust and the remnants of exploded stars.

gamma rays High-energy radiation often generated by processes in and around exploding stars. Gamma rays are the most energetic form of light.

gauge A device to measure the size or volume of something. For instance, tide gauges track the ever-changing height of coastal water levels throughout the day. Or any system or event that can be used to estimate the size or magnitude of something else. (v. to gauge) The act of measuring or estimating the size of something.

heavy element (to astronomers) Any element other than hydrogen (or possibly helium).

Hubble Constant A measure of the rate at which our universe appears to be expanding.we

infer (n. inference) To conclude or make some deduction based on evidence, data, observations or similar situations.

infrared light A type of electromagnetic radiation invisible to the human eye. The name incorporates a Latin term and means “below red.” Infrared light has wavelengths longer than those visible to humans. Other invisible wavelengths include X-rays, radio waves and microwaves. Infrared light tends to record the heat signature of an object or environment.

iron A metallic element that is common within minerals in Earth’s crust and in its hot core. This metal also is found in cosmic dust and in many meteorites.

laser A device that generates an intense beam of coherent light of a single color. Lasers are used in drilling and cutting, alignment and guidance, in data storage and in surgery.

light-year The distance light travels in one year, about 9.46 trillion kilometers (almost 6 trillion miles). To get some idea of this length, imagine a rope long enough to wrap around the Earth. It would be a little over 40,000 kilometers (24,900 miles) long. Lay it out straight. Now lay another 236 million more that are the same length, end-to-end, right after the first. The total distance they now span would equal one light-year.

LIGO (short for Laser Interferometer Gravitational wave Observatory) A system of two detectors, separated at a great geographical distance, that are used to register the presence of passing gravitational waves.

mass A number that shows how much an object resists speeding up and slowing down — basically a measure of how much matter that object is made from.

metal Something that conducts electricity well, tends to be shiny (reflective) and malleable (meaning it can be reshaped with heat and not too much force or pressure).

NASA Short for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Created in 1958, this U.S. agency has become a leader in space research and in stimulating public interest in space exploration. It was through NASA that the United States sent people into orbit and ultimately to the moon. It also has sent research craft to study planets and other celestial objects in our solar system.

neutron A subatomic particle carrying no electric charge that is one of the basic pieces of matter. Neutrons belong to the family of particles known as hadrons.

neutron star The very dense corpse of what had once been a star with a mass four to eight times that of our sun. As the star died in a supernova explosion, its outer layers shot out into space. Its core then collapsed under its intense gravity, causing protons and electrons in its atoms to fuse into neutrons (hence the star’s name). Astronomers believe neutron stars form when large stars undergo a supernova but aren’t massive enough to form a black hole. A single teaspoonful of a neutron star, on Earth, would weigh a billion tons.

nuclear reaction Events that physically alter the nucleus of an atom. (This is in contrast to chemical reactions that affect the electrons orbiting an atom.) Some nuclear reactions will transmute an atom, change it into a different chemical element, such as through fission (also known as atom splitting). Others may involve the capture of energy by bombardment with electromagnetic radiation or subatomic particles. Nuclear reactions are not affected by temperature and pressure (as chemical reactions may be). Instead, they are driven primarily by the energy of the particle that hits them or by the intensity of the radiation prompting the reaction.

observatory (in astronomy) The building or structure (such as a satellite) that houses one or more telescopes.

platinum A naturally occurring silver-white metallic element that remains stable (does not corrode) in air. It is used in jewelry, electronics, chemical processing and some dental crowns.

pressure Force applied uniformly over a surface, measured as force per unit of area.

radiation (in physics) One of the three major ways that energy is transferred. (The other two are conduction and convection.) In radiation, electromagnetic waves carry energy from one place to another. Unlike conduction and convection, which need material to help transfer the energy, radiation can transfer energy across empty space.

radio To send and receive radio waves, or the device that receives these transmissions.

radioactive An adjective that describes unstable elements, such as certain forms (isotopes) of uranium and plutonium. Such elements are said to be unstable because their nucleus sheds energy that is carried away by photons and/or and often one or more subatomic particles. This emission of energy is by a process known as radioactive decay.

radioactive decay A process by which an element is converted into a lighter element through the shedding of subatomic particles (and energy).

radio waves Waves in a part of the electromagnetic spectrum. They are a type that people now use for long-distance communication. Longer than the waves of visible light, radio waves are used to transmit radio and television signals. They also are used in radar.

remnant Something that is leftover — from another piece of something, from another time or even some features from an earlier species.

spacetime A term made essential by Einstein’s theory of relativity, it describes a designation for some spot given in terms of its three-dimensional coordinates in space, along with a fourth coordinate corresponding to time.

star The basic building block from which galaxies are made. Stars develop when gravity compacts clouds of gas. When they become dense enough to sustain nuclear-fusion reactions, stars will emit light and sometimes other forms of electromagnetic radiation. The sun is our closest star.

sun The star at the center of Earth’s solar system. It’s an average size star about 26,000 light-years from the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Also a term for any sunlike star.

supernova (plural: supernovae or supernovas) A massive star that suddenly increases greatly in brightness because of a catastrophic explosion that ejects most of its mass.

telescope Usually a light-collecting instrument that makes distant objects appear nearer through the use of lenses or a combination of curved mirrors and lenses. Some, however, collect radio emissions (energy from a different portion of the electromagnetic spectrum) through a network of antennas.

theoretical An adjective for an analysis or assessment of something that based on pre-existing knowledge of how things behave. It is not based on experimental trials. Theoretical research tends to use math — usually performed by computers — to predict how or what will occur for some specified series of conditions. Experimental testing or observations of natural systems will then be needed to confirm what had been predicted.

trill A fluttering but fast song, usually oscillating between two or more notes.

universe The entire cosmos: All things that exist throughout space and time. It has been expanding since its formation during an event known as the Big Bang, some 13.8 billion years ago (give or take a few hundred million years).

uranium The heaviest naturally occurring element known. It’s called element 92, which refers to the number of protons in its nucleus. Uranium atoms are radioactive, which means they decay into different atomic nuclei.

wave A disturbance or variation that travels through space and matter in a regular, oscillating fashion.

wavelength The distance between one peak and the next in a series of waves, or the distance between one trough and the next. Visible light — which, like all electromagnetic radiation, travels in waves — includes wavelengths between about 380 nanometers (violet) and about 740 nanometers (red). Radiation with wavelengths shorter than visible light includes gamma rays, X-rays and ultraviolet light. Longer-wavelength radiation includes infrared light, microwaves and radio waves.

X-ray A type of radiation analogous to gamma rays, but having somewhat lower energy.

====== 58 ========

Trio wins physics Nobel for detecting gravity waves

Subtle cosmic ripples kicked up by amazingly distant black holes have captured the public imagination. They also have grabbed the appreciation of a committee that evaluates Nobel Prize candidates. Today it announced the physics award would go to three Americans who laid the groundwork for the first direct detection of gravitational waves.

Rainer Weiss works at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. Kip Thorne and Barry Barish work at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. Together, they will share the 9 million Swedish kronor (about $1.1 million) prize. Half will go to Weiss. Thorne and Barish will split the rest.

Researchers often wait decades before the Nobel committee recognizes their achievements. Not these three pioneers of LIGO. (That’s short for the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory.) Not quite 20 months ago — on February 11, 2016 — LIGO announced the long-sought first detection of gravity waves. These particular ripples in spacetime had been generated by a pair of merging black holes.

Three scientists — Rainer Weiss of MIT (left), and Kip Thorne (middle) and Barry Barish (right), both of Caltech — won the Nobel Prize in physics for their leadership roles in the LIGO experiment. FROM LEFT: BRYCE VICKMARK; CALTECH; R. HAHN/WIKIMEDIA COMMONS

The observation was the result of intense efforts by legions of scientists. It came a century after Albert Einstein had predicted such waves should exist. The frenzy of excitement that the waves generated captured front-page headlines around the world. Their confirmation was so monumental that the guiding team of physicists were honored almost immediately with a Nobel.

Indeed, says Clifford Will, “These detections were so compelling and Earth-shattering… Why wait?” Will is a physicist at the University of Florida in Gainesville and was not directly involved with the discovery. He said of the trio’s Nobel Prize today: “It’s fabulous. Absolutely fabulous.”

LIGO is an example of expensive, risky — but potentially revolutionary — science. “Gravitational waves contain information about their explosive origins and the nature of gravity that cannot be obtained from other astronomical signals,” France Córdova said in a statement. Córdova is the director of the National Science Foundation, a government agency that has invested some $1.1 billion into developing LIGO’s sensitive instruments. And now science is seeing a great payoff, she adds. LIGO’s observations “have created the new field of gravitational wave astronomy.”

Watching the arms of LIGO

LIGO was developed, in part, to test a prediction of Einstein’s general theory of relativity. Einstein had argued that rapidly accelerating massive objects would stretch and squeeze spacetime. This action should set in motion ripples that would move outward from the source. Despite looking for these waves for the better part of a century, none appeared — until last year.

“If Einstein was still alive, it would be absolutely wonderful to go to him and tell him about the discovery. He would be very pleased, I’m sure of it,” Weiss said at a news conference at MIT a few hours after he got word of the win. “But then to tell him what the discovery was, that it was a black hole, he would have been absolutely flabbergasted.”

An enthusiastic group of team members clad in LIGO-themed T-shirts gave the news conference celebrating the award a party-like atmosphere. There, Weiss stressed that the discovery was a group effort. “I’m a symbol of that. It’s not all on my shoulders, this thing,” he said. He then cited the large collaboration of scientists whose work led up to LIGO’s detection.

Scientists now hope to begin surveying the universe in a new way, by feeling for oh-so-subtle ripples in spacetime. Doing so “will allow us to see the parts of the universe that were not revealed to us before,” says Carlos Lousto. A LIGO team member, he works at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York.



LIGO officially began collecting data in 2002. It ran on and off until 2010. Throughout, it turned up no hints of gravitational waves. So scientists designed a host of upgrades to make it more sensitive. The souped-up system is now known as Advanced LIGO. It began searching for spacetime ripples in 2015. Almost at once, scientists detected super-tiny ripples. They pointed to a black-hole collision. Those ripples, spotted on September 14, 2015, had journeyed to Earth from 1.3 billion light-years away. There, two colossal black holes had spiraled inward toward one another. Eventually they merged into one.

Story continues below image.

The Nobel Prize was awarded to three physicists for the detection of gravitational waves produced by merging black holes, shown here in a computer simulation. C. HENZE/NASA

Quivers from those converging black holes were converted into an audio signal. They made a tell-tale "chirp." It sounded a bit like a bird's cry. The particulars of that signature reveal details of the collision. “The beauty of the symphony is in what you can extract from the tiny wiggles, or the wiggles on tops of wiggles, in that signal,” Thorne said today at a news conference at Caltech.

Since that first detection, LIGO scientists have observed three additional black-hole collisions. Additional gravitational ripples may already be in the bag: There are rumors that LIGO scientists have detected a smashup of neutron stars. Weiss hinted that another announcement is planned for October 16.



LIGO consists of two enormous L-shaped detectors. One stretches across the wooded landscape of Livingston, La. The other sprawls across a desert in Hanford, Wash. Each has two 4-kilometer- (2.5-mile-) long arms. A laser’s light bounces back and forth between mirrors at the elbow of LIGO’s L-shape and the ends of the arms that project out from it.



Gravity waves passing through a detector will stretch one arm very slightly. At the same time, they will shorten the other. LIGO compares the arms’ lengths using the laser light. It can detect differences in length that are smaller than the size of a proton.

“LIGO is probably one of the best and most amazing instruments ever built by mankind,” Barish said at the Caltech news conference. But building it was a risky endeavor. No one had previously attempted anything like it. And no one could say for sure whether the effort would succeed. “What’s fundamental is you have to be willing to take risks to do great things,” Barish said.

In August 2017, both LIGO detectors teamed up with a similarly designed Virgo detector near Pisa, Italy. The latest sighting of a spacetime ripple was made seven weeks ago. It showed up in all three detectors. This allowed scientists to pinpoint more precisely than ever the site of a pair of colliding black holes.

Story continues below image.

LIGO detects gravitational waves by splitting a laser beam in two, sending light down two arms. The light reflects back and forth between mirrors in the arms. The beams then recombine and are sent to a detector. If the arms are the same length, the light beams cancel each other out. Any length difference — such as that caused by gravitational waves stretching one arm while shortening the other — will allow some light through to the detector. NICOLLE RAGER FULLER

Getting to LIGO

In the 1960s, Weiss came up with the idea for a laser gravitational-wave detector. It was while he was teaching a class on general relativity. (Other researchers had independently proposed the technique as well.) The work began with some scribbles on scraps of paper. It eventually moved on to early prototypes.

Thorne became inspired by a conversation with Weiss. He assembled a team to work on the technique at Caltech in the ’70s. (Thorne, by the way, was a 1958 semifinalist in the Science Talent Search. It’s a program of Society for Science & the Public, which publishes Science News for Students.)



Ronald Drever, another LIGO founder, died in March. In the ’70s, he had been working on gravitational-wave detectors at the University of Glasgow in Scotland. Eventually, Drever joined Thorne at Caltech in 1979. Weiss and Drever each worked individually on prototypes. Then Weiss officially teamed up with Thorne and Drever in 1984 to create the initial LIGO device. Drever did live to hear of the first detection, Will says. Still, the Florida researcher adds, “It’s sad that he didn’t live to see it all.”

Barish joined the project later. In 1994, he became director of LIGO. He stayed on in that role for more than 10 years. Over that time, he elevated LIGO from scientists’ daydreams into reality. Barish oversaw the building of the LIGO detectors as well as their first searches for gravity waves. “He entered the experiment in a crucial moment,” notes Alessandra Buonanno. She is a LIGO team member and works at the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics in Potsdam, Germany. This was a time “when it was necessary to bring the experiment to a different level, make it a big collaboration,” she says.

Speculation that LIGO would nab a Nobel began as soon as the first discovery was announced last year. “We were certainly expecting this,” says LIGO team member Manuela Campanelli. She works at the Rochester Institute of Technology.

But expecting it didn’t make the win any less sweet. “I feel in a dream,” says Buonanno.

LIGO and Virgo are currently in a shutdown period. Scientists are tinkering with the detectors to further improve their sensitivity. The hunt for ripples in spacetime will resume next year. Besides black-hole mergers and neutron-star smashups, scientists might one day also spot waves from an exploding star, known as a supernova. Future generations of these detectors might even sense trembles generated in the Big Bang. That would provide a glimpse of the universe’s beginnings.

Scientists might even turn up phenomena that have not yet been predicted. “I await expectantly some huge surprises in the coming years,” Thorne says.

====== 59 ========

Explainer: The furious eye(wall) of a hurricane or typhoon

People often use the phrase “eye of the storm.” It’s a term that defines part of a hurricane. It’s that small zone of calm in the midst of chaos, ferocious rains and battering destruction. The wall of winds that swirl around this quiet respite are the polar opposite of this eye. Indeed, they lash out with the cyclone’s greatest fury.

That’s saying a lot, because even the outer regions of hurricanes combine Mother Nature’s wildest weather. Their winds can blow ferociously. When their direction is right, these can sweep destructive storm surges inland across coastlines. Their clouds can dump a meter (upwards of 3 feet) of rain — or more — on inland communities. Their unstable winds can even spawn tornadoes by the dozens.

Unstable air — turbulence and rising motion — is key to building and strengthening hurricanes.

The atmosphere naturally cools the farther away you rise from the planet’s surface. That’s why ice crystals may grow outside of windows of a cloud-level airplane — even when it’s a hot summer day at ground level. When the air near the ground is extra warm, it will rise up to pierce through some of the cooler air above. This can create a localized plume of rising air known as an updraft. That’s one surefire sign that the air is unstable.

Warm sea surface temperatures and fairly unstable air are major ingredients in the recipe for a hurricane. Those conditions can serve to fuel quickly rising storm clouds.

Scientists refer to hurricanes are barotropic (Bear-oh-TROH-pik). Such storms form from vertical instabilities. That means there is no real forcing mechanism to move the air sideways. Instead, the air plumes only blossom upwards thanks to extra-chilly air aloft.

To grow, a hurricane must suck in more air. This air spirals in a counterclockwise fashion toward the center. And as it nears the middle, the air accelerates faster and faster. It speeds up just as an ice skater does when she pulls in her arms and legs.

By the time a pocket of air approaches the center, it’s now howling at destructive speeds. This air loses heat to the storm. That energy flows to the cloud-free “eye” of the storm, then exits up and out the top. Inside the eye, the winds disappear. A bit of the air curls back down towards the ground and erodes any moisture, eating away at clouds. Sometimes blue skies appear directly overhead.

Circling just outside the eye are the winds that make up the eyewall. They’re the scariest, nastiest, gnarliest part of the storm. They form an unbroken line of extremely powerful downpours. In strong hurricanes, these winds can roar to 225 kilometers (140 miles) per hour.

Here’s an artist’s depiction of the structure of a hurricane or typhoon. Warm air (pink ribbon) gets pulled into the bottom of the storm. It spirals up and out of the eye (center) where it cools (turns blue). Kelvingsong/Wikimedia ( CC BY 3.0

Twirling masses of air

Despite how strong these storms are, one thing is often missing: lightning.

With a storm so intense, one would expect its clouds to trigger plenty of lightning. Most don’t. And it all has to do with the motion of the air pockets — known as parcels — spiraling into the eyewall.

Ordinary thunderstorms develop vertically, meaning upright from the ground. It’s a bit like a bubble of air rising from the bottom of a pan of boiling water. In hurricanes, however, there is so much rotational energy that the air doesn’t climb up directly. Instead, it takes a swirly, roundabout path.

Radar data showing a horizontal slice through Hurricane Harvey, last year. It shows intense, tall storm clouds on either side of a calm, tranquil eye. The diagram combines 16 horizontal scans and stitches them together as one vertical slice. This revealed the structure of the storm. National Weather Service, GR2 Analyst, M. Cappucci

Parcels of air swirl slantwise into the storm, inward from all directions. All the while, they rise.

So while they reach the height of typical thunderstorms — 10 to 12 kilometers (6.2 to 7.5 miles) — the rising motion isn’t quite as strong, given that they’re circling like a merry-go-round. In order to spark lightning, there need to be lots of straight-up-and-down rising motion.

That’s why eyewalls only spit out sporadic bolts when a storm is intensifying — when more air is moving in the upwards direction rather than around and around. Scientists can actually gauge whether a storm is strengthening by probing how electrified its clouds are. (They do that by scanning those clouds with Doppler weather radar.)

But eyewalls don’t just produce winds with epic speed. Their winds also blow in many different directions.

Whirling fury may neighbor quiet zones

A typical hurricane eyewall tends to be about 16 kilometers (10 miles) thick. And as that eyewall moves across a site, the storm’s winds can explode within a matter of seconds.

When such strong winds hit land, they slow a bit. That’s due to friction. In the air well above us, there’s little to slow down rushing pockets of air. But near the ground, air masses can encounter all sorts of things. Trees, houses, cars and everything else serve as obstacles to the wind. Air passing over this lowest kilometer (0.6 mile) or so to the ground “feels” the effects of surface drag. That part of the atmosphere is known as the Ekman layer.

Due to the change in wind speed with height, there also can be friction between different layers of moving air. Scientists refer to this as wind shear. It’s a turning of the winds or a change in their speed with height.

Imagine you hold a pencil between your two hands. What would happen if you moved your hands in opposite directions? The pencil would rotate. The same thing happens to air masses within a storm.

We can’t necessarily see it. But people can certainly feel the results.

This radar scan of Hurricane Andrew in 1992 shows the super furious Cat-5 storm making landfall near Homestead, Fla. The location of the National Hurricane Center – NHC – is plotted. This was the last data received before the National Weather Service’s radar was destroyed by the storm. The catastrophically strong eyewall is visible as an unbroken band of dark red. National Weather Service

During Hurricane Andrew in 1992, for instance, areas of extreme damage emerged in swaths next to strips of land that escaped relatively unharmed. Each alternating “stripe” was a few hundred meters (perhaps 1,000 feet) across. They could be a kilometer or two long. Engineers coined the term roll vortex to describe what they thought was happening.

A vortex is a spinning or rotating mass of air. Much like the pencil spun in your hands, researchers hypothesized that long tube-like horizontal vortices of air could develop in the Ekman layer of a hurricane. These invisible vortices could stretch a few kilometers, and span some 300 meters (1,000 feet) across.

Later research would show much larger and more oblong roll vortices forming in less intense hurricanes. The parallel rolls would line up a few kilometers apart. That’s according to Ian Morrison and Steven Businger, researchers at the University of Hawaii at Manoa in Honolulu. Near the ground, these tubes could enhance wind speeds — a lot. And sometimes, they would hover over the same site for hours on end. That explains why some neighborhoods can see wicked winds, while a nearby community could miss the action entirely.

Why don’t these vortices move along with the storm? Well, think about a stone in a river. Downstream of that rock or obstacle, a series of miniature rolls or ripples forms. Even though the river’s current is moving swiftly, interruptions in the flow can cause vortices to form on a largely unchanging spot above it. The same process is responsible for the formation of roll vortices in hurricanes. When houses, mobile homes or any structures “interrupt” the normal flow of wind, stationary vortices may emerge.

Twirling into true twisters

But that’s not the only oddity within the eyewall. Inside those internal storms that make up the eyewall, scientists have seen evidence of tornado-like vortices causing a ruckus.

It’s long been known that tropical storms that come ashore can generate tornadoes. Swarms of them can develop in the outer rain bands once a cyclone makes landfall. It’s all thanks to that wind shear within the storm. That shear effect tends to be strongest in the forward right quadrant (one-fourth) of the storm. The vorticity — or “spin energy” — in that region can cause individual thunderstorm cells to rotate. The result? A tornado emerges within a hurricane. And like Harvey in 2017, some tropical cyclones have become prolific tornado-makers.

But eyewall twisters are different. Tornadoes shouldn’t be able to form in this part of the hurricane. Renowned tornado expert Tetsuya “Ted” Fujita was called to weigh in on the unusual damage seen in the wake of 1992’s Hurricane Andrew. And Fujita discovered something novel — mystery whirlwinds.

Fujita called them mini-swirls.

Mini-swirls may look and act like a tornado, but they form differently. Even more novel: They’re not connected to the storm clouds above.

Sometimes, small eddies may form near the ground when the wind blows around an object. Hikers may observe little vortices of dust, grass or leaves meandering across a field on a windy day. Inside the hurricane though, these swirling eddies can grow. And grow. And grow.

Because an eyewall’s winds just above the ground are so strong, they exert an upward “pull” on the air near the ground. That can stretch the tiny vortex upward a few hundred meters (yards). Suddenly it’s not so tiny.

Angular momentum is a phrase that defines the energy in a moving object that rotates. Because angular momentum (energy) is conserved, wind speeds rise dramatically as the vortex is yanked up. (Remember that figure skater that twirls ever faster as she brings her arms and legs close in to her body.) That can lead to winds of up to 129 kilometers (80 miles) per hour.

That alone may not sound so high. But imagine getting hit by one of these rotating through an eyewall where the ambient winds were already moving at 193 kilometers (120 miles) per hour. That combination could produce narrow paths of destruction a few meters wide where winds would have briefly reached 322 kilometers (200 miles) per hour!

Because of how quickly mini-swirls move, they may only impact an area for a few tenths of a second. But that’s enough to cause extreme damage. These mini-cyclones within the cyclone were one big reason why Hurricane Andrew featured damage unlike typical hurricanes.

Evidence of mini-swirls also appeared in the devastation left across the Florida peninsula in 2017 by Hurricane Irma. One was caught live on television. Mike Bettes was roadcasting from Naples, Fla., when he found himself face to face with a mini swirl. At the time, this meteorologist for The Weather Channel was standing inside the eyewall of Irma.

“You were just in the eyewall of a hurricane,” noted an anchor from the TV station’s studio. Then suddenly a whirling mass of condensing water caused Bettes to lose his footing. Whipping across the street at incredible speed, the vortex slammed just meters (yards) away from Bettes. It eventually bent a palm tree and caused more offscreen damage. Bettes escaped unscathed.

====== 60 ========

Explainer: What are proteins?

(for more about Power Words, click here)

amino acids Simple molecules that occur naturally in plant and animal tissues and that are the basic building blocks of proteins.

cell The smallest structural and functional unit of an organism. Typically too small to see with the unaided eye, it consists of a watery fluid surrounded by a membrane or wall. Depending on their size, animals are made of anywhere from thousands to trillions of cells. Most organisms, such as yeasts, molds, bacteria and some algae, are composed of only one cell.

chemical A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H 2 O. Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are the result of various reactions between different compounds.

collagen A fibrous protein found in bones, cartilage, tendons and other connective tissues.

component Something that is part of something else (such as pieces that go on an electronic circuit board or ingredients that go into a cookie recipe).

diet (adj. dietary) The foods and liquids ingested by an animal to provide the nutrition it needs to grow and maintain health.

dissolve To turn a solid into a liquid and disperse it into that starting liquid. (For instance, sugar or salt crystals, which are solids, will dissolve into water. Now the crystals are gone and the solution is a fully dispersed mix of the liquid form of the sugar or salt in water.)

DNA (short for deoxyribonucleic acid) A long, double-stranded and spiral-shaped molecule inside most living cells that carries genetic instructions. It is built on a backbone of phosphorus, oxygen, and carbon atoms. In all living things, from plants and animals to microbes, these instructions tell cells which molecules to make.

gene (adj. genetic) A segment of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for a cell’s production of a protein. Offspring inherit genes from their parents. Genes influence how an organism looks and behaves.

muscle A type of tissue used to produce movement by contracting its cells, known as muscle fibers. Muscle is rich in protein, which is why predatory species seek prey containing lots of this tissue.

peanut Not a true nut (which grow on trees), these protein-rich seeds are actually legumes. They’re in the pea and bean family of plants and grow in pods underground.

peptide A short chain of amino acids (usually fewer than 100).

protein A compound made from one or more long chains of amino acids. Proteins are an essential part of all living organisms. They form the basis of living cells, muscle and tissues; they also do the work inside of cells. Among the better-known, stand-alone proteins are the hemoglobin (in blood) and the antibodies (also in blood) that attempt to fight infections. Medicines frequently work by latching onto proteins.

tissue Made of cells, it is any of the distinct types of materials that make up animals, plants or fungi. Cells within a tissue work as a unit to perform a particular function in living organisms. Different organs of the human body, for instance, often are made from many different types of tissues.

widget In computer science, a tool built into a program or website that lets a user take action in response to information provided on screen.

====== 61 ========

Football and hockey don’t necessarily doom players’ brains to serious damage

A career of hard knocks to the head will not necessarily leave pro athletes with serious, permanent brain damage. That’s the take-home message from a small study. It included pro athletes who had taken a lot of hard hits during their career — including to the head. The findings now challenge what had been suggested by other studies that had autopsied the brains of former college and pro football players.

The new data come from tests of 21 retired athletes. All had been football players with New York’s Buffalo Bills or hockey players with the Buffalo Sabres.

Each player allowed researchers to extensively scan his brain. The players also took behavioral tests. From these, the scientists turned up no signs of early dementia or unusual rates of mental decline. Both can point to a brain disease known as CTE. That’s short for chronic traumatic encephalopathy (KRON-ik Traw-MAA-tik En-seff-uh-LAH-puh-thee). Today, doctors diagnose CTE only by looking at a brain after someone has died.

For the new study, University of Buffalo researchers gave the athletes a battery of clinical tests. These measured brain function and mental health. Other tests probed such health features as diet, obesity and history of drug or alcohol use. Findings from these men were then compared to those from 21 noncontact athletes (such as runners and cyclists).

The former hockey and football players had expected bad news. They “were pretty much their own worst critics,” says Barry Willer, an author of the new research. This psychiatrist studies traumatic brain injury at the University of Buffalo in New York. The athletes had believed their brains to be impaired, he notes.

In fact, the new tests did not find high rates of problems with memory, solving problems, decision making or being able to plan things. The researchers also found no evidence of declines in the men’s attention, language and spatial abilities. Based on these tests, none of the former football and hockey players appeared to have early-onset dementia.

The good news “was a big surprise to us — and a big surprise to the athletes,” Willer says. The results are in line with several earlier studies of living athletes. This includes one published last year. It, too, found no major problems in the mental abilities of 33 retired hockey pros.

The authors shared their latest findings in a series of papers. All were published August 7 in the Journal of Head Trauma Rehabilitation.

Not all athletes were totally fine

Eight of the 21 contact athletes appeared to show mild mental impairment. So did three of the 21 other athletes. Such mental problems could hint that dementia will develop. But the difference in rates between the two groups may not be due solely to more head knocks in the hockey and football players. Education, IQ and a man’s weight also could have contributed to some of the apparent difference. As such, the authors say they cannot firmly link rates of mild mental decline seen to which sport a man had played.

Brain scans told a similar story. Several types of magnetic-resonance imaging, or MRI, turned up no big differences. They showed no big differences in brain anatomy. They also didn’t show big links to behaviors in athletes with a history of contact versus noncontact sports. Still, seven of the non-contact athletes showed microbleeds. Scientists have linked these tiny ruptures in brain blood vessels with poorer brain function. The same microbleeds showed up in only two of football and hockey players.

Carrie Esopenko works at Rutgers University in Newark, N.J. She’s trained as a cognitive neuroscientist and a psychologist. Studies of the living, as here, “are exactly what we really need,” she says. Such studies “are really going to help us understand what’s going on in these lives.”

The new study also may ease some recent concerns. Last year, researchers had reported in JAMA that 110 of 111 autopsies turned up CTE in the brains of former pro football players. Those brains had been donated by family members who had suspected something was amiss. However, such concerns and symptoms may mean this sample represented the sickest of former players.

Indeed, notes neurologist Rodolfo Savica: “People who do not have symptoms do not donate their brains.” Savica works at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and was not involved in either study.

Athletes who took part in the new study were in their mid-50s. So they would have been relatively young for a dementia diagnosis. Still, based on earlier reports of brain damage, the researchers had expected to find some signs of dementia in these football and hockey players.

To better understand the prevalence of CTE, though, more research will be needed. Researchers want to see a larger sample of athletes who suffer blows to the head as well as those who don’t. “There’s a lot more that we don’t know than we do know,” says coauthor John Leddy of the University of Buffalo’s Concussion Management Clinic.

====== 62 ========

Soccer headers may hurt women’s brains more than men’s

(for more about Power Words, click here)

amateur One who engages in a pursuit as a pastime, not as a profession.

axon The long, tail-like extension of a neuron that conducts electrical signals away from the cell.

brain scan A technique to view structures inside the brain, typically with X-rays or a magnetic resonance imaging (or MRI) machine. With MRI technology — especially the type known as functional MRI (or fMRI) — the activity of different brain regions can be viewed during an event, such as viewing pictures, computing sums or listening to music.

cell The smallest structural and functional unit of an organism. Typically too small to see with the unaided eye, it consists of a watery fluid surrounded by a membrane or wall.

chronic A condition, such as an illness (or its symptoms, including pain), that lasts for a long time.

chronic traumatic encephalopathy Also known as CTE, it's a term for long-lasting brain disease brought on by head injuries (often sustained in sports or military service). This disease often is progressive, meaning it worsens with time.

concussion Temporary unconsciousness, or headache, dizziness or forgetfulness due to a severe blow to the head.

depression A low spot, such as in a field or the surface of a rock. (in medicine) A mental illness characterized by persistent sadness and apathy. Although these feelings can be triggered by events, such as the death of a loved one or the move to a new city, that isn’t typically considered an “illness” — unless the symptoms are prolonged and harm an individual’s ability to perform normal daily tasks (such as working, sleeping or interacting with others). People suffering from depression often feel they lack the energy needed to get anything done. They may have difficulty concentrating on things or showing an interest in normal events. Many times, these feelings seem to be triggered by nothing; they can appear out of nowhere.

diffusion tensor imaging A technique for identifying microscopic changes or differences in the structure of brain regions. It can map the three-dimensional diffusion of water into tissues, which can change with disease. It’s often used to study the brain’s white matter.

disorder (in medicine) A condition where the body does not work appropriately, leading to what might be viewed as an illness. This term can sometimes be used interchangeably with disease.

encephalopathy A term for any type of disease that alters the structure of the brain or how well it functions.

fiber Something whose shape resembles a thread or filament.

genetic Having to do with chromosomes, DNA and the genes contained within DNA. The field of science dealing with these biological instructions is known as genetics. People who work in this field are geneticists.

hormone (in zoology and medicine) A chemical produced in a gland and then carried in the bloodstream to another part of the body. Hormones control many important body activities, such as growth. Hormones act by triggering or regulating chemical reactions in the body.

magnetic resonance imaging or MRI An imaging technique to visualize soft, internal organs, like the brain, muscles, heart and cancerous tumors. MRI uses strong magnetic fields to record the activity of individual atoms.

median (in mathematics) The value or quantity that lies at the midpoint of a group of numbers that had been listed in order from lowest to highest.

microscopic An adjective for things too small to be seen by the unaided eye. It takes a microscope to view objects this small, such as bacteria or other one-celled organisms.

nerve A long, delicate fiber that transmits signals across the body of an animal. An animal’s backbone contains many nerves, some of which control the movement of its legs or fins, and some of which convey sensations such as hot, cold or pain.

radiology The science dealing with X-rays and other high-energy radiation, especially the use of such radiation for the diagnosis and treatment of disease.

risk The chance or mathematical likelihood that some bad thing might happen. For instance, exposure to radiation poses a risk of cancer. Or the hazard — or peril — itself. (For instance: Among cancer risks that the people faced were radiation and drinking water tainted with arsenic.)

symptom A physical or mental indicator generally regarded to be characteristic of a disease. Sometimes a single symptom — especially a general one, such as fever or pain — can be a sign of any of many different types of injury or disease.

trauma (in medicine) An injury, often a fairly severe one. This term also can refer to a severely disturbing incident (such as witnessing a battlefield death) or memory.

white matter One of the two main tissue types found in the brain and spinal cord. It consists mainly of bundles of nerve fibers.

====== 63 ========

When the moon throws shade, the weather can change

On August 21, 2017, the moon cast a temporary shadow across a wide swath of the United States. The event spanned 14 states and lasted for up to two minutes 41 seconds in any one spot. Many areas were plunged into brief, total daytime darkness. Others experienced a subtle, hour-long partial dimming of the sun.

As millions of people along the eclipse path watched in awe, cadres of scientists went to work. The moon reduced — and in some places blotted out — warming rays of the roughly midday sun. Some scientists were looking to log local weather changes. Not surprisingly, scientists now report, the eclipse produced a localized short-term cooling along its path.

But that was not all.

Wind speeds changed. Some clouds evaporated in the abrupt cooling. In all, the rare spectacle provided loads of useful data to researchers who are trying to better understand how the globe responds when the sun’s light briefly disappears.

The most easy-to-measure changes were drops in air temperatures at Earth’s surface.

The Kentucky State Mesonet is a network of 68 automated weather stations. They span the state. These stations measured temperature, winds and intensity of sunlight every three seconds throughout the eclipse.

The station in Hopkinsville fell in the center of the shadow’s path. It got to feel the eclipse’s full impacts. Totality is the brief, spectacular event where the sun’s rays are fully blocked and no sunlight reaches the ground. Ten minutes after totality had ended in Hopkinsville, the air had cooled by 4.4 degrees Celsius (8 degrees Fahrenheit). It would take another 75 minutes to warm back up again.

Story continues below graph.

A trace of the temperature and incident solar radiation on either side of totality in Hopkinsville, Ky, shows a big dip caused by the eclipse. Kentucky State Mesonet/Western Kentucky University

As these data show, that drop in temperature tends to lag the moon’s shadowing by several minutes. That’s because of the way air is warmed. The sun doesn’t heat the air. Instead, it radiates energy that warms the ground. That heated soil soon warms the air immediately above it. Shortly after that, the surface air will move the heat — through a process known as convection — up into the atmosphere. This entire process takes a few minutes. That’s why the maximum temperature drop does not occur at the point of maximum shade.

In dry climates, the sudden cool-down from an eclipse can be even more dramatic.

Fifteen seconds before totality in Alliance, Neb., the moon has almost blotted out the sun. © M.E. Cappucci

Dan Satterfield is the chief meteorologist at WBOC-TV in Salisbury, Md. He traveled to Alliance, Neb., to watch the eclipse. There, he recorded a 5 degree C (9 degree F) decline in air temps. “It was a bit more than I expected actually,” he now recalls. “But then I realized that we were at over 4,000 feet [1,219 meters] elevation.”

Air tends to be drier at higher altitudes. That cooler air, higher up, can hold less water. Water takes a long time to gain or lose heat, Satterfield points out. Air on its own, though, can’t hold onto heat very effectively. Dry air loses a lot of heat as soon as the sun is gone. That means that drier air can see faster and more dramatic warming and cooling.

This explains why eclipse-driven temperature swings can be really dramatic in very dry air. Such as Lusaka in Zambia. This arid capital in South Central Africa saw a total eclipse of the sun on June 21, 2001. That event briefly brought a whopping 8.3 degree C (15 degree F) drop in temperature.

Changing winds and cloud cover

Scientists measure the amount of incoming sunlight in watts per meter squared. A typical value would be around 800 W/m². At sites in the path of last year’s total eclipse, the number briefly dipped to zero. Confused birds returned to their roosts. Crickets began to chirp as they thought night had come early.

This gif, from a simulation, shows changes in solar radiation as the eclipse passed over the United States. Dark blue areas indicate darkness from both the eclipse and cloud cover. NOAA/ESRL/GSD/CIRES Joe Olson, Michael Toy, and Jaymes Kenyon; NCAR/MMM - Wei Wang, Jimy Dudhia, Dave Gill Alex Montornes, Univ. of Barcelona

And at some sites, a cool breeze blew in from the west. That’s where the moon’s shadow was sweeping in from. This rapid false nightfall in places churned up air currents. Many researchers reported feeling an “eclipse wind” — something that had been mentioned in folklore for ages. Scientists are still analyzing data, but they noted an abrupt wind shift falling in the wake of the shadow’s passage.

Sometimes, though, the opposite happens: A total solar eclipse can bring a calming of the winds. That’s what Suzanne Gray and Giles Harrison reported two years ago in the Proceedings of the Royal Society A. These research meteorologists work in England at the University of Reading. They studied a total eclipse over the British Isles on March 20, 2015. And their data showed that wind speeds did not rise. They dropped.

Clouds, too, may be affected.

White, puffy summertime clouds often dot the afternoon sky. But during the 2017 solar eclipse, these all but vanished over much of the United States. Scientists at many sites charted what was happening. Then they compared these data to what computer programs had been forecasting.

First, those forecasts: In the days before the eclipse, scientists had been running computer models — programs to project what might occur. Each run of the computer program had been based on the anticipated weather and eclipse shadows. Computer models know how air temperature responds to the amount of sunlight coming in. Even though scientists knew that the sun would be blocked, they had to rely on computer models to predict how this might affect temperatures.

The U.S. National Weather Service uses one computer model for this. It’s known as the HRRRX (High Resolution Rapid Refresh Experimental) model. Meteorologists run it once an hour, feeding it constantly updated data. Always reflecting the latest conditions, scientists consider it the most accurate U.S. tool for forecasting weather.

As the moon fully blocks the sun during the brief window of totality, the milky-white hair-like silvery tendrils of the corona – the sun’s atmosphere – emerge in their full glory. A solar eclipse is the only time when the corona is visible, so scientists only have perhaps a few minutes every decade to make observations and conduct experiments! © M.E. Cappucci

Astronomers made calculations of how much the sun would be dimmed. Then they passed this information to programmers to feed into the model runs in the days before the eclipse. Indeed, short-range weather models have now been adjusted to include all eclipses through the year 2050. Before this, weather models had ignored the role of any eclipse.

One spectacular image from the Earth Systems Research Laboratory in Boulder, Colo., shows the difference in what the model had forecasted before and after the update. The original version of HRRR and other models had predicted a large thunderstorm cluster — known as a complex — to rumble through Nebraska on eclipse day. It never happened, thanks to the dimming of the sun. And the newly tweaked HRRRX model had warned this might not occur.

What seems to have happened is that the eclipse’s sharp cutoff of sunlight prevented most surface air from rising. This halted updrafts. These are pockets of air that bubble upwards. Normally, these updrafts feed the puffy cumulus clouds that can emerge in the heat of the day.

From the ground, people in many places reported seeing clouds thin somewhat before the eclipse reached totality. In other words, as the incoming sunlight shrank, so did the mass of the clouds.

This video shows the shadow of the moon sweeping across the landscape, extinguishing clouds in its track. UWSSEC/YouTube

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration captured an incredible video of this from its GOES-16 weather satellite. That video showed a white patchwork of clouds over the U.S. Gulf Coast and southeastern states. As soon as the eclipse’s shadow moved past this area, the sea of white dissolved. It left clear blue skies in its wake.

On average, a total solar eclipse occurs at any particular site only about once every 375 years. That makes it a pretty rare event. But for those that missed the 2017 eclipse, don’t despair. Americans will have another shot close to home on April 8, 2024. And if you’re more adventurous and don’t mind hiking across the globe, pack your bags. A total solar eclipse will throw some serious shade at Chile and Argentina in July 2019.

====== 64 ========

What scientists hope to learn from Great American Eclipse

A total eclipse of the sun is not all that rare. One is visible from somewhere on Earth every 18 months or so. Most, however, go almost entirely unseen. Often the narrow zone of totality — where the sun is completely blocked out — falls over the oceans. Or cloud cover blocks precious minutes of totality over land.

This poster, which you can download from NASA here , highlights the states where a totality would occur. NASA

But this year’s Great American Eclipse, on August 21, will offer 93 minutes of totality on solid ground. (Each location gets about two minutes). That means more chances for land-based observers to have clear skies. It also provides a rare opportunity. For the full 90 minutes it takes the eclipse to travel from Oregon to South Carolina, people can watch the dance and sway of the sun’s corona. That’s the outer edge of the atmosphere jacketing the star.

With the sun’s otherwise blazing light covered up, that atmosphere suddenly becomes visible. Loops and whorls of plasma — energetic streams of charged subatomic particles — can be seen flying out from the sun’s surface. Many double back or twist and bend.

Not surprisingly, this corona will be a featured spectacle of this year’s eclipse.

In fact, that momentary solar shadowing will be much more than a spectacle. As the moon passes in front of the sun, scientists will be doing some serious work. A fleet of instruments will turn skyward to study parts of our star that usually are invisible.

But is there really any science left to do? Historically, eclipses were the only way to get a good look at parts of the sun. These days, space telescopes monitor the sun in multiple wavelengths, 24/7. So what else is there to learn?

A lot, it turns out.

“Everybody’s taken in by the beautiful dark sky” of an eclipse, says Padma Yanamandra-Fisher. “But that part is so dominant that people don’t always appreciate the nuances of the science you can actually do.” Yanamandra-Fisher is an astronomer at the Space Science Institute’s branch in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif. She will observe the event from Carbondale, Ill.

Many of the answers that she and other researchers seek have to do with the inner corona. It’s the part of the sun’s atmosphere that starts right at the solar surface and extends on out to about 2.5 times the radius of the sun.

Here, a lot of the most interesting solar physics takes place. It’s where the solar wind starts. It’s where loopy magnetic structures are anchored. It’s where space weather gets its start. And it’s where powerful ejections of mass become launched into space — ones that can knock out electric-power grids on Earth.

Today’s space telescopes can watch the outer corona all the time. They employ a disk called an occulter to block out the sun’s brightness. But it’s no match for a true solar eclipse. By lucky coincidence, the moon can appear exactly the right size in the sky to block out the solar disk, and no more.

Jay Pasachoff is an astronomer at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass. “The moon makes a better eclipse than humans have been able to do,” he notes. So he plans to take advantage of it. He will observe this year’s event — his 34th total eclipse — from Salem, Ore.

Story continues below image.

In a total solar eclipse, the moon blocks out the sun, exposing the sun's outer layer, the corona. S. Habbal et al

Where does the solar wind come from?

The sun can’t keep its hands to itself. A constant flow of charged particles streams away from it at hundreds of kilometers per second. That solar wind batters vulnerable planets in its path. Indeed, it is thought to have stripped away much of the Martian atmosphere. And it’s had a direct role in shaping life in the solar system. Our planet is protected from a fate similar to Mars' only by its strong magnetic field. That field guides the solar wind around Earth.

But scientists don’t understand some key details of how this wind works. It originates in an area where the sun’s gaseous surface meets its atmosphere. Like winds on Earth, the solar wind is gusty. It speeds and slows in different areas. Right now, no one knows why the wind is fickle. But some answers might emerge during the eclipse.

Nat Gopalswamy is an astronomer at NASA’s Goddard Spaceflight Center in Greenbelt, Md. (NASA is short for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.) He and his colleagues will test a new instrument, called a polarimeter (PO-luh-RIM-eh-tur). It was built to measure the temperature and speed of electrons leaving the sun. Measurements will start close to the sun’s surface and extend out to around 5.6 million kilometers (3.5 million miles). That’s about eight times the radius of the sun.

“We should be able to detect the baby solar wind,” Gopalswamy says.

The polarimeter will be set up at a high school in Madras, Ore. It will separate out light that has been polarized — had its electric field organized in one direction — from light whose electric field goes in all sorts of directions. Electrons scatter polarized light more than non-polarized light. So that observation will give the scientists a bead on what the electrons are doing. And that should offer clues to how fast the wind flows, how hot it is and even where it comes from.

The team first tried out an earlier version of this instrument in 1999. It was during an eclipse in Turkey. But that instrument required the researchers to flip through three different polarization filters to capture all the data on polarized light that they sought. Cycling through the filters using a hand-turned wheel was slow and clunky. It's also a challenge when the totality lasts only two minutes or so.

The team’s upgraded instrument has been designed to gather data through all three filters and in four wavelengths of light at once. Because the corona morphs quickly, “we have to take these images as close in time as possible,” Gopalswamy explains. One exposure will take 2 to 4 seconds, plus a 6-second wait between filters. That will give the team about 36 images.

This isn’t the polarimeter’s first time in the field. Gopalswamy and his team took it all the way to Indonesia for a solar eclipse in March 2016. “That experiment failed because of noncooperation from nature,” Gopalswamy says. “Ten minutes before the eclipse, the rain started pouring down.”

This year, they chose Madras because historically it’s the least cloud-covered place on the eclipse path. But they’re still crossing their fingers for clear skies.

Why is the corona so hot?

The big star of the August 21 light show will be the sun’s corona. From its delicate and filmy look, you might expect it to be where the sun goes to cool off. That couldn’t be more wrong.

The corona is a mysteriously sizzling inferno. The sun simmers at about 5,500° Celsius (9,900° Fahrenheit) at its visible surface, the photosphere (FO-toh-sfeer). But the gas just above the photosphere runs some 10,000 °C (18,000 °F). Then, in the corona, the temperature makes an abrupt hike to several million degrees!

Paul Bryans is a solar scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. “It’s counterintuitive” — the opposite of what you’d expect — “that as you move away from a heat source, it gets warmer,” he notes. Why the corona should do that is “one of the longest unanswered questions in all of solar physics,” he says.

The corona is also diffuse. And that makes its scorching temps even stranger. The most basic ways to heat a material rely on particles crashing into each other. But the corona is too thin for that to work.

Such extreme temperatures must have something to do with the corona’s magnetic field. That is probably where all that energy is stored. Once there, the energy has a hard time escaping — radiating into space. So it just builds up.

“We know there’s energy coming in, and it’s hard to get it out unless you get very hot,” says Caspi. “What we don’t understand is how that energy gets into the corona in the first place.”

Scientists used magnetic measurements of the sun to create this map, in which magnetic fields are represented by looping lines. NASA/SDO/AIA/LMSAL

Physicists have several ideas. Magnetic field lines surround a magnet (you can see this if you drop iron filings around the edges of a bar magnet). Those field lines also exist in the corona. Maybe loops of them vibrate like guitar strings. That might heat things up, a bit like how a microwave oven heats food. Maybe the loops' magnetic anchors on the sun’s surface braid and twist the magnetic field above them. That might dump in energy that is then continually radiated away (as from the heating element in a toaster).

Or maybe nanoflares or jets of solar gases — called spicules — carry energy away from the photosphere, dumping it into the corona. The formation of new coronal loops that connect to existing ones could dump in enough extra energy to heat up the plasma.

In search of answers, dozens of groups of scientists across the country will deploy telescopes equipped with filters during this year’s eclipse. They will attempt to pick out polarized light, infrared light or electron-deprived iron atoms. Bryans and his colleagues will be on a mountaintop near Casper, Wyo., in the path of totality.

Scientists have thought up many mechanisms that could contribute to the corona’s extreme heat. It’s difficult to declare just one as the single most important one. Ultimately, the solar eclipse is the best chance scientists will have to test them. It’s the only time the corona will be the star of the solar show.

What can the eclipse tell us about the corona’s magnetic field?

Corona is Latin for “crown.” And during an eclipse, the dazzling corona certainly gives every appearance that it’s crowning the sun. Its hot, bright plasma is a radiant, ever-changing spectacle. Its bright loops and whorls bend, sway and snap. Sometimes, one of those loops breaks off. That sends high-energy material rippling through space in what is known as a coronal mass ejection. If flung toward Earth, these bursts can trigger auroras. The energy deposited when they enter our planet’s atmosphere also can damage satellites and knock out electric-power grids.

It’s the motion of charged particles — like those in the corona’s plasma — that create the sun’s magnetic field. And it, in turn, choreographs the corona’s disordered dance.

In terms of the corona, the magnetic field, well, “it’s the heart of everything,” says Jenna Samra. She is a graduate student in applied physics at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass.

That magnetic field at the sun’s surface is well known. But the corona’s field is so weak, scientists barely know it at all. Understanding the sun’s magnetic inner life could be key to understanding and predicting the corona’s dramatic activity.

During the 2017 eclipse, Samra and others will observe the corona at wavelengths (or radiation) between 1 and 4 micrometers — in the infrared portion of the light spectrum. These are light wavelengths emitted when a heavy element like magnesium, iron, sulfur or silicon loses an electron to the hot plasma around it.

Magnetic fields of different strengths make those electrons spiral in particular ways. That spiraling changes the orientation of the light as it travels toward Earth. In the end, to probe the magnetic field, scientists will have to measure this light orientation, or polarization.

Bryans and Philip Judge, who also works at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, will be part of a research team that trucks a sensitive instrument to the top of Casper Mountain in Wyoming. This device, a spectrometer (Spek-TRAH-meh-tur), can split sunlight into its component wavelengths.

“The [sun’s] whole infrared spectrum has never been acquired before. And that’s one of the things we want to do,” Judge says.

Samra will have another infrared spectrometer at an altitude of about 15 kilometers (9.3 miles). Her team, including her adviser Edward DeLuca, and their instrument will take off on a jet owned and flown by the National Science Foundation. Water in Earth’s atmosphere absorbs some of the infrared wavelengths they’re interested in. The extra height will get them above most of that water. They’ll fly east from Chattanooga, Tenn., in the shadow of the moon. That will extend the eclipse a bit for them. The team will get four minutes of the moon entirely blocking the sun. This should give them more time to collect data.

The spectrum these teams measure during the eclipse won’t translate immediately to a measurement of the strength or shape of the sun’s magnetic field. But it will help identify which wavelengths are easiest to observe. That in turn will set the stage for the work of future telescopes, like the Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope. It is under construction on the Hawaiian island of Maui, and due to start up in 2019.

“Half of its mission will be to observe the infrared and the [solar] corona. But right now we don’t know what it should look for,” Judge says. Measurements made during this year’s eclipse will help point the way.

Story continues below image.

The Solar Dynamics Observatory can view the sun in many different wavelengths of light (shown here), letting scientists see various features. NASA Goddard Space Flight Center

Why are the loop structures in the corona so organized?

During the eclipse, the corona’s orderly network of loops, fans and streamers become visible. These wispy structures arise from the magnetic field on the sun’s visible surface.

“It’s not a static surface like the ground,” explains Amir Caspi. “It’s more like an ocean,” notes this solar physicist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo. “And not just an ocean. It’s like a boiling ocean!”

NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory imaged these coronal loops over a two-day period in 2014. Scientists don't know why the loops aren't tangled together. Solar Dynamics Observatory/NASA

Because the corona’s loops and streamers all originate at the turbulent surface, their roots should get twisted and turned around. “And yet these structures in the corona are not tangled and snarled and matted like kelp or seaweed in the ocean,” Caspi says.

And, he adds, “Nobody understands why.”

To unknot the photosphere’s tangled mats, the corona must somehow release some of the energy stored there, Caspi says. So during the eclipse, he and colleagues will be looking for the release valves that set the corona free.

One possibility is that the wave motion in the corona’s magnetic field lines helps untie the snarls. Magnetic waves in plasma, called Alfvén waves, are thought to ripple through the sun’s magnetic field lines like vibrations in a guitar string.

Another option is that little puffs of magnetic energy near the solar surface could help release the tangles. These puffs are called nanoflares and nanojets. No one knows if they exit. But scientists suspect that they might. They would be like solar flares but with only a billionth as much energy.

By going off all the time, nanoflares and nanojets might collectively release enough energy to give the corona some structure, computer models indicate.

“Both are symptoms of tiny rearrangements of the magnetic field,” says Craig DeForest. He’s a solar physicist, also at the Southwest Research Institute. Solar flares and coronal mass ejections are signs of such magnetic rearrangements. But they don’t occur often enough to account for the corona’s smoothness. “Nanojets and/or nanoflares in the middle corona would be a smoking gun,” DeForest says. They could “explain why the corona is so organized.”

Researchers have directly observed Alfvén waves in the lower corona, within about half a solar radius of the surface. But they’ve not been seen farther out where waves with different energies would travel. And no one has actually seen any nanoflares or nanojets. Theories suggest they may just be too small and quick to see individually. But they should be visible as an ensemble when the solar eclipse reveals the lower corona.

Caspi, DeForest and their colleagues will fly a pair of telescopes on a NASA WB-57 high-altitude research jet in the path of the eclipse. They hope to see both effects during the eclipse. “We’re taking high-speed movies of the sun and analyzing them for things that look like waves,” Caspi says. “We’re just overall looking at the structure of the corona.”

So it may seem as if an eclipse is little more than Mother Nature’s ultimate light show. In fact, it also can be a great environment to probe some great remaining questions about the workings of our home star.

====== 65 ========

Teen interviews science role models to inspire others

Girls who want to go into science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) sometimes have a tough time finding role models. That’s because men still outnumber women in many of these fields. Some teens might think that’s a problem they’ll solve by going into a STEM field and becoming a role model themselves. But Emily Koehne, 17, decided not to wait. The senior at the Immaculate Heart Academy in Washington, N.J., actively searches out female role models in STEM and shares her interviews with them on her own YouTube channel.

“I never had any role models for girls in STEM when I was younger,” Emily explains. For instance, female scientists on TV were weird or geeky, she says. “They were never portrayed in a positive manner.”

The teen got a chance to change that when she entered a contest run by Marvel and the National Academy of Sciences that challenged girls to create videos answering STEM-based questions. (The contest was also sponsored by Society for Science & the Public, which publishes Science News for Students and this blog). Emily created a video in which she 3-D printed a doll named “STEMily” with whom she discussed problems of women in STEM.

She didn’t win the contest. But Emily didn’t mind. She had discovered just how much she liked making videos. “I couldn’t stop there,” she says. Using money she earned through pet sitting, the teen bought a GoPro camera and set up a website, which she used to start her own YouTube channel, STEMily<K>.

Emily set out to interview women in STEM about their careers and share those interviews with teachers and fellow students. But she quickly ran into a problem. She didn’t have any STEM role models. Encouraged by her former science teacher Sharon Mistretta, the teen searched the internet for women in STEM to interview. Then she sent emails asking for those women to speak with her.

Many of the scientists responded and were eager to participate. Dianna Cowern, a science communicator known for her YouTube channel Physics Girl, was one of them. She was thrilled to see someone in high school promoting women in STEM. Emily, Cowern says, “clearly has thought through issues that women face in STEM, in a way I hadn’t thought about until I was out of college. I was really impressed with her.”

Emily plans, shoots and edits the videos herself, spending hours on each one. “The interviews take an hour,” she says, but the final videos are usually only 8 to 12 minutes long. “There’s so much great information,” Emily notes. “But girls won’t spend an hour [watching], so I try to … put the most important information in that I think girls really want to know.”

The teen hopes to inspire other teens with the scientists she interviews. She’s already found a new science hero in Sylvia Acevedo. Trained as an engineer, Acevedo now heads the Girls Scouts of the United States of America. And she gladly sat down for an interview with Emily. “She’s impacting girls on a level I’d love to achieve some day,” the teen says of Acevedo. “She’s taken her experience and now she’s giving back.”

Emily’s YouTube channel is still new, and her goal is to post four videos a month. The teen is trying to get the word out about her project to attract more viewers to her channel. She’s also looking for more STEM role models who blend several interests, such as science and fashion. “I want to show girls you can be well rounded and interested in STEM as well as interested in other things, so girls won’t be discouraged and pick the other things over STEM,” she says.

And her new hobby has made her more determined than ever to pursue a career in computer science. She says, “I’m doing what I love.”

Emily Koehne interviews PhysicsGirl, Dianna Cowern, about her work. E. Koehne

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

====== 66 ========

These women tackle science in the lab, classroom and far, far beyond

Every scientist had to start somewhere. Many first determined they loved science in the classroom. Others found out as they experimented at home — building, designing and even stitching up new things. When Science News for Students asked women in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to send us their pictures, we heard from more than 100 people in 18 countries! Here are a group that spend their lives spreading their love of science.

Randi Baldwin created colorful holiday ornaments — by growing festive bacteria. R. Baldwin

Randi Baldwin

Think the bacteria grown from a poop sample smell like, well, crap? Baldwin says, no way. “I…love the smell of growing Pseudomonas aeruginosa from my poo cultures,” she says. “[It] smells like sweet grapes.” Baldwin used to work in a microbiology lab — a place where scientists study tiny organisms such as bacteria, viruses and fungi. Now, she’s a full-time high school science teacher at T.C. Roberson High School in Asheville, N.C. She teaches physics, earth science and biology.

Savanna Barry

Many kids might think that marine biology means studying dolphins or whales. To Barry, it means studying grass. Seagrass. Many different things live in the marine environment, after all. That includes seagrass.

Barry is a marine biologist at the University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension – Florida Sea Grant in Cedar Key, Fla. Her work, like much of marine biology, involves a lot of swimming. Sometimes it takes scientists deep enough that they need to use SCUBA gear. So Barry is also a SCUBA divemaster with more than 300 logged dives. Check a video about her work below.

Seagrass Savanna from Michael Crandall on Vimeo.

Maria Christoforaki holds a model of a satellite at the 2016 European CanSat Competition. Dario Cruz

Maria Christoforaki

There’s no age limit on a love of science. Christoforaki is a high school student at the Lyceum of Gazi in Greece. In June, she was part of a team from her school that competed in the European Cansat Competition. This is a contest in which teams build models of satellites. The catch? The satellite has to be the size and shape of a soft drink can. A lot of creativity is required — and Christoforaki says that is the best part. “Each moment I create,” she says, “I feel like I am free.”

Science gets gross sometimes. Christina Colgan poses during her clam poop-cleaning internship. C. Colgan

Christina Colgan

Colgan calls herself a “super fun marine and physical science teacher” at Heritage High School in Palm Bay, Fla. But before she was a teacher, she embraced the gross side of science. How gross? She once had an internship cleaning clam poop off clams so the bivalves didn't suffocate.

ReBecca Hunt-Foster



Hunting dinosaurs that have been dead for millions of years might seem easy — they can’t exactly go far, after all. But it takes a lot of time and a lot of patience. Hunt-Foster knows how much time it takes. She’s a paleontologist — a scientist who studies ancient, fossilized organisms. She works for the Bureau of Land Management in Moab, Utah.

My, what big feet you have! ReBecca Hunt-Foster poses with a dinosaur track. R. Hunt-Foster

Paleontologists hunting dinosaurs — as Hunt-Foster does — can spend large amounts of time in the field digging up fossils. Then they’ll spend more time in the lab, cleaning and studying their finds. Hunt-Foster is helping to make sure that all that work time doesn’t interfere too much with scientists’ lives. She and other paleontologists are trying to find solutions to improve work/life balance, especially for scientists who are early in their careers. Hunt-Foster does bring her work home with her, though. But that’s so that she can share her love of the outdoors with her own family. “I have two kids that I love to take out into nature,” she says. “We love to go for family road trips to collect fossils, or for hikes and walks in the mountains or along desert creeks.”

Kelly Knight

People who fight crimes don’t always wear capes or badges. Sometimes they wear lab coats. Knight is a forensic scientist — someone who uses scientific techniques to help solve crimes. She’s a professor at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. But that’s not all she does. “I'm also a Zumba instructor and I have my motorcycle license,” she says. She’s still working on getting a motorcycle, though.

Kelly Knight is suited up and ready to work. K. Knight

Vanessa Lucieer

Have you ever seen a map of the ocean showing that some parts are deeper than others? How do we know how deep the ocean is? In some cases, the ocean is far too deep to measure with a long line. Another method is needed to figure out depth. Lucieer instead makes maps of the seafloor using sound waves. She works at the Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies at the University of Tasmania in Australia.

Now Lucieer is also using those sound waves and maps to make art. She presented her first exhibition in August 2016. She’s been working with other scientists around the world to share images made with sound data, she explains, “so that we can share the wonder of shapes, patterns and textures of how unique our oceans are.”

Lucieer made the little clay boats in this video to show just what it would take to map the oceans around Australia. Marine Biodiversity Hub

Sara MacSorley

Not everyone who loves science wants to end up in a lab. “No one ever told me you could be more than a research scientist with a science degree, so when I discovered research wasn't the career for me, I freaked out,” says MacSorley. Luckily, there’s a lot you can do with a degree in science outside of the laboratory! MacSorley is now the director of the Green Street Teaching and Learning Center at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. She spends her time promoting outreach and education.

Sara MacSorley decided she didn’t want to spend life in a lab. Instead, she spends her time spreading a love of science. S. MacSorley

She still loves science. MacSorley is now working on a coloring book about women in science, technology, engineering and math. She’s already raised more than $8,000 for her project. So keep an eye out for the coloring book Super Cool Scientists, coming out soon!

Christine Sharp (picture at top)

Sharp is one of the scientists trying to find new ways to put gasoline in our cars or heat our homes — using microbes. She’s a scientist at the University of Calgary in Alberta, Canada. She’s looking for bacteria in extreme environments such as highly alkaline lakes. No animals can live there. But bacteria can. Sharp wants to know if any of these bacteria might be used to make biofuels — liquids that could replace gasoline.

Kelly Sutherland prepares a sample for her work. Ayelet Pilosof

Kelly Sutherland

Jellyfish in aquariums seem like they float, rather than swim. Somehow, they manage to get around the ocean anyway. Sutherland studies just how these organisms interact with their watery environment. She’s a marine scientist at the Oregon Institute of Marine Biology at the University of Oregon in Eugene. For someone who spends so much time on the water, though, she’s got an unfortunate weakness: Sutherland gets seasick.

Erin Winick shows off one of her galaxy-inspired dresses. E. Winick

Erin Winick

If you love science and fashion, you’re not alone. Winick is a student in mechanical engineering at the University of Florida in Gainesville. In her career as an engineer, she says, she’s had to do everything “from crawling under houses to look at structural damage to learning to drive a tractor!”

But she also runs her own company, Sci Chic, making science- and engineering-inspired jewelry. Her science creativity also goes beyond jewelry. “I love sewing and have made everything from a Ms. Frizzle costume to a galaxy-patterned dress,” she says. “I love making and wearing any all space- and science-inspired clothing.

We hope you enjoyed our series highlighting inspiring women in science, technology, engineering and math! If you liked this one, make sure to check out our other lists including astronomy, biology, ocean science, biomedicine, math, earth science, ecology, chemistry and neuroscience.

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

====== 67 ========

Small genetic accident made Zika more dangerous

(for more about Power Words, click here)

allergy The inappropriate reaction by the body’s immune system to a normally harmless substance. Untreated, a particularly severe reaction can lead to death.

behavior The way something, often a person or other organism, acts towards others, or conducts itself.

Caribbean The name of a sea that runs from the Atlantic Ocean in the East to Mexico and Central American nations in the West, and from the southern coasts of Cuba, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico down to the northern coasts of Venezuela and Brazil. The term is also used to refer to the culture of nations that border on or are islands in the sea.

cell The smallest structural and functional unit of an organism. Typically too small to see with the unaided eye, it consists of a watery fluid surrounded by a membrane or wall. Depending on their size, animals are made of anywhere from thousands to trillions of cells. Most organisms, such as yeasts, molds, bacteria and some algae, are composed of only one cell.

colleague Someone who works with another; a co-worker or team member.

epidemic A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease that sickens many people (or other organisms) in a community at the same time. The term also may be applied to non-infectious diseases or conditions that have spread in a similar way.

gene (adj. genetic) A segment of DNA that codes, or holds instructions, for a cell’s production of a protein. Offspring inherit genes from their parents. Genes influence how an organism looks and behaves.

genetic Having to do with chromosomes, DNA and the genes contained within DNA. The field of science dealing with these biological instructions is known as genetics. People who work in this field are geneticists.

immune (adj.) Having to do with the immunity. (v.) Able to ward off a particular infection. Alternatively, this term can be used to mean an organism shows no impacts from exposure to a particular poison or process. More generally, the term may signal that something cannot be hurt by a particular drug, disease or chemical.

immune system The collection of cells and their responses that help the body fight off infections and deal with foreign substances that may provoke allergies.

infect To spread a disease from one organism to another. This usually involves introducing some sort of disease-causing germ to an individual.

infection A disease that can spread from one organism to another. It’s usually caused by some type of germ.

infectious An adjective that describes a type of germ that can be transmitted to people, animals or other living things.

mature (adj.) Connoting an adult individual or full-grown and fully developed (non-juvenile) form of something. (verb) To develop toward — or into — a more complex and full-grown form of some individual, be it a plant, animal or microbe.

microbe Short for microorganism. A living thing that is too small to see with the unaided eye, including bacteria, some fungi and many other organisms such as amoebas. Most consist of a single cell.

microcephaly A condition that leaves babies with abnormally small heads and partially developed brains.

mutation (v. mutate) Some change that occurs to a gene in an organism’s DNA. Some mutations occur naturally. Others can be triggered by outside factors, such as pollution, radiation, medicines or something in the diet. A gene with this change is referred to as a mutant.

National Institutes of Health (or NIH) This is the largest biomedical research organization in the world. A part of the U.S. government, it consists of 21 separate institutes — such as the National Cancer Institute and the National Human Genome Research Institute — and six additional centers. Most are located on a 300 acre facility in Bethesda, Md., a campus containing 75 buildings. The institutes employ nearly 6,000 scientists and provide research funding to more than 300,000 additional researchers working at more than 2,500 other institutions around the world.

nerve A long, delicate fiber that transmits signals across the body of an animal. An animal’s backbone contains many nerves, some of which control the movement of its legs or fins, and some of which convey sensations such as hot, cold or pain.

outbreak The sudden emergence of disease in a population of people or animals. The term may also be applied to the sudden emergence of devastating natural phenomena, such as earthquakes or tornadoes.

Pacific The largest of the world’s five oceans. It separates Asia and Australia to the west from North and South America to the east.

primate The order of mammals that includes humans, apes, monkeys and related animals (such as tarsiers, the Daubentonia and other lemurs).

protein A compound made from one or more long chains of amino acids. Proteins are an essential part of all living organisms. They form the basis of living cells, muscle and tissues; they also do the work inside of cells. Among the better-known, stand-alone proteins are the hemoglobin (in blood) and the antibodies (also in blood) that attempt to fight infections. Medicines frequently work by latching onto proteins.

risk The chance or mathematical likelihood that some bad thing might happen. For instance, exposure to radiation poses a risk of cancer. Or the hazard — or peril — itself. (For instance: Among cancer risks that the people faced were radiation and drinking water tainted with arsenic.)

species A group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce.

strain (in biology) Organisms that belong to the same species that share some small but definable characteristics. For example, biologists breed certain strains of mice that may have a particular susceptibility to disease. Certain bacteria or viruses may develop one or more mutations that turn them into a strain that is immune to the ordinarily lethal effect of one or more drugs.

variant A version of something that may come in different forms. (in biology) Members of a species that possess some feature (size, coloration or lifespan, for example) that make them distinct. (in genetics) A gene having a slight mutation that may have left its host species somewhat better adapted for its environment.

virologist A researcher who studies viruses and the diseases they cause.

virus Tiny infectious particles consisting of RNA or DNA surrounded by protein. Viruses can reproduce only by injecting their genetic material into the cells of living creatures. Although scientists frequently refer to viruses as live or dead, in fact no virus is truly alive. It doesn’t eat like animals do, or make its own food the way plants do. It must hijack the cellular machinery of a living cell in order to survive.

Zika A viral disease that can be transmitted to humans via mosquitoes. About 20 percent of infected people get sick. Symptoms include a slight fever, rash and pinkeye and usually fade quickly. A growing body of evidence suggests that the virus could also cause a devastating birth defect — microcephaly. Evidence suggests it may also cause neurological conditions such as Guillain-Barré syndrome.

====== 68 ========

Could Zika become a cancer treatment?

The Zika virus struck fear into the hearts of parents and would-be parents, last year. Moms who were infected during pregnancy often gave birth to babies with serious birth defects, including small brains. A number of the problems linked to the disease came from how the virus impacted the developing nervous system. But someday, Zika might also gain renown as a medical therapy — to treat deadly brain cancers.

That‘s the finding of a new study. In it, researchers infected human cells and mice with the virus. And in both, the virus killed certain stem cells — ones that would have gone on to become an aggressive type of brain tumor. This deadly cancer is known as a glioblastoma (GLEE-oh-blas-TOE-mah). Even more exciting, the germ left healthy brain cells unharmed.

Jeremy Rich is a scientist who focuses on regenerative medicine at the University of California, San Diego. His team shared its new findings online September 5 in the Journal of Experimental Medicine.

Previous studies had shown that Zika kills the cells in the developing brain that can mature into nerve cells — also known as neurons. Neuroscientists thought maybe this explained the brain problems seen in many babies whose mothers who had been infected with Zika during pregnancy.

There are similarities between those cells that will become neurons and the cells that can turn into glioblastomas. Knowing this, Rich’s team suspected Zika might target the cells that can morph into the very deadly brain-cancer cells.

In the United States, some 12,000 people are expected to be diagnosed with glioblastoma this year. One of them was U.S. Senator John McCain. Doctors diagnosed his cancer this past July. The bad news: Even with treatment, most patients live only about a year after a gliobastoma diagnosis.

Rich and his colleagues have now tested their Zika treatment in the lab. They infected human stem cells that will go on to become glioblastomas. This treatment halted the cells’ growth, the scientists report. The virus also infected some full-blown glioblastoma cells, but not as many. The good news: The virus did not infect normal brain tissues.

Mice, too, can develop glioblastomas. And Rich’s team treated some mice with the cancer and then watched what happened to their disease. Compared to uninfected mice, tumors in the Zika-treated animals either shrank or grew more slowly. Zika-infected mice lived longer, too. In one trial, almost half of the mice survived more than six weeks with their brain cancer after being treated with Zika. In comparison, the cancers in mice who had not been uninfected with the virus died within two weeks of the start of the trial.

Using a virus to knock out cancer isn’t a new idea. Some tumors, including glioblastomas, are being treated with a modified poliovirus. Such trials are experimental. The U.S. government has also approved a modified herpes virus to treat melanoma, a deadly skin.

Andrew Zloza is a cancer specialist at the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey in New Brunswick. Cancer-fighting viruses seem to work in two ways, he says. First, they infect and kill tumor cells. Then, as the dying cells split open, previously hidden tumor fragments become visible to the immune system. The body recognizes those fragments and launches a fight against them.

“Right now we don’t know what kind of viruses are best” for fighting cancer, Zloza says. But Zika, he notes, is now another candidate.

Further tests are needed to find out if the virus is safe and effective in people. Since Zika’s effects are more harmful in developing brains, a Zika-based cancer therapy might be safe only in adults. And genes in the virus would need to be modified to make the germ safer and less likely to spread.

Rich and his colleagues are now running tests in mice to see if combining Zika with traditional cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy drugs, would be more effective than either treatment alone. Because Zika targets the cells that generate tumor cells, it might also prevent tumors from coming back.

====== 69 ========

Pluto’s heart has dunes of methane ice

Pluto’s heart-shaped plains have stripes. Those stripes appear to be dunes, where methane ice makes up the “sand.”

The New Horizons spacecraft snapped images of those plains when it flew by Pluto in July 2015. Those images reveal hundreds of linear ridges that appear to be a new type of dune, say Matt Telfer and his colleagues. Telfer is a planetary scientist at the University of Plymouth in England. His team describes those dunes in the June 1 Science.

The ridges run parallel to a mountain range known as Al-Idrisi Montes. It sits at the western edge of Sputnik Planitia. Those wide plains of nitrogen ice form part of Pluto’s famous heart-shaped region. Winds between about 1 and 10 meters per second (2 to 22 miles per hour) likely carry methane ice from those mountains and across the plains.

Northwest of a vast plain called Sputnik Planitia are streaks that look like dunes (yellow arrow). Winds sculpted these features, which run parallel to the Al-Idrisi Montes mountains. SWRI, JHU Applied Physics Lab, NASA

The scientists used a computer model to investigate how the methane ice moves. The model even took into account Pluto’s thin atmosphere, which weakens winds. That model now proposes that Pluto’s winds would be strong enough to keep sand-sized methane ice particles moving once they get started. But the winds are probably too weak to lift the grains off the ground in the first place.

The grains could, however, get a lift from little puffs of air coming from Sputnik Planitia’s nitrogen ice. As the sun heats that ice, it turns into a vapor. That process by which solids turn directly into vapor is called sublimation (Sub-lih-MAY-shun).

Gusts of nitrogen vapor could lift the methane ice particles skyward and into the wind, the team’s research suggests.

“That’s a novel, interesting idea,” says Alexander Hayes. He’s a planetary scientist at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., who was not involved in the work. But he knows about it and wrote a commentary about it in the same issue of Science. Still he cautions, sublimation alone could explain some of the features, without any need for wind.

Dunes are found across the solar system, from Earth to Mars and Saturn’s moon Titan. Each of these worlds has the ingredients for dunes. Those ingredients are a big supply of loose, grainy material and an atmosphere or fluid to move those grains around.

“When you look at dunes across the solar system, something that always strikes me is that they form the same patterns,” Hayes says. This is true “regardless of the environment,” he notes. Finding dunes on Pluto suggests that such features may be ubiquitous (Yu-BIH-qwih-tus). That means they are found in a lot of places — perhaps all over. “If you have the material and a way to move it, you form dunes,” Hayes says. “That’s what this is telling us.”

====== 70 ========

Weird Pluto gives up its secrets

OXON HILL, Md. — At this point, the only thing unsurprising about Pluto is that it continues to offer up surprises.

Pluto is a weirder place than scientists had ever imagined. It has widely different landscapes, a family of wildly spinning moons and volcano-like mountains that spew ice instead of rock. Those surprises are among the many that NASA’s New Horizons mission uncovered this year. Its scientists reported their findings in November at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society’s planetary sciences division.

The Pluto mission is offering scientists rich lessons, said Alan Stern. He led the program to get a spacecraft to Pluto. “It’s going to take the larger planetary science community many years to digest all this,” he noted at a news briefing.

Even though Pluto is part of the solar system, it’s so far away that scientists had known little about what it might be like. That changed in 2015.

A long voyage

The New Horizons spacecraft was launched in 2006. It’s taken almost a decade for it to reach Pluto’s neighborhood. On July 14, the spacecraft finally buzzed the dwarf planet and started sending back data. It has so far sent back only about 20 percent of the data it obtained from the Pluto system. And every new nugget confirms that Pluto is a riddle.

Terrains both new and old sit side-by-side on Pluto’s surface. Some heavily cratered regions are roughly 4 billion years old, about as old as Pluto itself. Others appear to have been laid down recently — within the last 10 million years — judging by their total lack of craters.

One surprising feature is Tombaugh Regio. This gigantic heart-shaped basin has begun charming observers on Earth. The basin is 825 kilometers (513 miles) wide and 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) deep. Researchers believe it might have been caused by an impact with some huge space rock more than 4 billion years ago.

Other dramatic landscapes also have been coming into focus. That’s because images streaming in over the past few months have let researchers create maps in great detail that show natural features of the landscape, such as hills and valleys. These are called topographical (TOW-poh-GRAF-ih-kul) maps. One crack in Pluto’s surface is 320 kilometers long. Its walls are roughly 4 kilometers high. (That’s about twice the depth of the Grand Canyon!)

Two mountains look strangely similar to shield volcanoes back on Earth. Shield volcanoes are a type of large volcano with gently sloping sides. They get their name from the fact that they look like a warrior’s shield lying on the ground. On Pluto, though, these volcanoes would spew ice, not rock. “There’s nothing like this seen in the outer solar system,” says Oliver White. He’s a planetary scientist at the NASA Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, Calif. Researchers aren’t certain that the mountains are volcanoes, but they also don't know what else to call them. “Whatever they are, they’re definitely weird,” says White.

A layer of gases — an atmosphere — surrounds Pluto. These gases are much colder and more compact than researchers had thought. That means the atmosphere is probably escaping into space much more slowly than predicted.

Among other unusual features

Calculations before New Horizons arrived on the scene suggested that the ice level on Pluto’s crust had dropped by nearly 1 kilometer over the dwarf planet’s lifetime. That would have occurred as its ice turned directly into gas and then drifted into space. But at the current escape rate, the dwarf planet would have knocked only about 15 centimeters (6 inches) off of its icy crust. “It’s dangerous to go from a snapshot to 4.5 billion years [Pluto’s lifetime],” cautions Leslie Young. She is a planetary scientist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo. “But we’re scientists,” she says. “That’s what we do.”

SPIN ME ROUND This animation shows the orbits of Pluto’s moons Charon, Nix, Styx, Kerberos and Hydra (from closest to farthest). Data from the New Horizons mission show the four outermost moons spin faster than scientists ever expected. SWRI, JHUAPL, NASA

Far above Pluto whirl four tiny moons. They, too, are behaving unexpectedly. The satellites’ names are Nix, Hydra, Kerberos and Styx. Pluto’s gravity should have slammed on the brakes and slowed down their spins. But the rapidly twirling moons seem not to have gotten gravity’s instructions.

Hydra, the outermost moon, whips around its axis about 89 times during each orbit around Pluto and its largest moon, Charon. Nix, meanwhile, appears to be flipped nearly upside down. The other three tiny moons might be spinning on their sides. “We’ve never seen anything like this before, and we still don’t know what to make of it,” says planetary scientist Mark Showalter. He works for the SETI Institute in Mountain View, Calif. He led the team that discovered Kerberos in 2011 and Styx in 2012.

Lots more data are yet to come. They should include very detailed images. If the first 20 percent of the data are any clue, Pluto is probably not done surprising scientists.

Many early predictions about Pluto have proved to be mistakes. “Pluto and its system of satellites really outsmarted us,” says Stern. “I think it’s fair to say that New Horizons gets an ‘A’ for exploration … but we get an ‘F’ for predictive ability.”

Power Words

(for more about Power Words, click here)

atmosphere The envelope of gases surrounding Earth or another planet.

crater A large, bowl-shaped cavity in the ground or on the surface of a planet or the moon. They are typically caused by an explosion or the impact of a meteorite or other celestial body.

dwarf planet One of the solar system’s small celestial objects. Like a true planet, it orbits the sun. However, dwarf planets are too small to qualify as true planets. Prime examples of these objects: Pluto and Ceres.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration Created in 1958, this U.S. agency has become a leader in space research and in stimulating public interest in space exploration. It was through NASA that the United States sent people into orbit and ultimately to the moon. It has also sent research craft to study planets and other celestial objects in our solar system, including Pluto.

planetary science The science of other planets besides Earth.

Pluto A dwarf planet that is located in the Kuiper Belt, just beyond Neptune. Pluto is the tenth largest object orbiting the sun.

satellite A moon orbiting a planet or a vehicle or other manufactured object that orbits some celestial body in space.

SETI An abbreviation for search for extraterrestrial life, meaning life on other worlds.

shield volcano A type of large volcano that has a low profile, like a warrior’s shield lying on the ground. Shield volcanoes are caused by flows of magma.

solar system The eight major planets and their moons in orbit around the sun, together with smaller bodies in the form of dwarf planets, asteroids, meteoroids and comets.

terrain The land in a particular area and whatever covers it. The term might refer to anything from a smooth, flat and dry landscape to a mountainous region covered with boulders, bogs and forest cover.

topographical map A map that shows details of bumps and valleys in a planet’s landscape. A topographical map shows relief features, meaning that it conveys information about elevation changes from one spot on the map to another.

volcano A place on Earth’s crust that opens, allowing magma and gases to spew out from underground reservoirs of molten material. The magma rises through a system of pipes or channels, sometimes spending time in chambers where it bubbles with gas and undergoes chemical transformations. This plumbing system can become more complex over time. This can result in a change, over time, to the chemical composition of the lava as well. The surface around a volcano’s opening can grow into a mound or cone shape as successive eruptions send more lava onto the surface, where it cools into hard rock.

====== 71 ========

Teen vaping of marijuana raises concerns about addiction

(for more about Power Words, click here)

adolescent Someone in that transitional stage of physical and psychological development that begins at the onset of puberty, typically between the ages of 11 and 13, and ends with adulthood.

battery A device that can convert chemical energy into electrical energy.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC An agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, CDC is charged with protecting public health and safety by working to control and prevent disease, injury and disabilities. It does this by investigating disease outbreaks, tracking exposures by Americans to infections and toxic chemicals, and regularly surveying diet and other habits among a representative cross-section of all Americans.

chemical A substance formed from two or more atoms that unite (bond) in a fixed proportion and structure. For example, water is a chemical made when two hydrogen atoms bond to one oxygen atom. Its chemical formula is H 2 O. Chemical also can be an adjective to describe properties of materials that are the result of various reactions between different compounds.

depression A low spot, such as in a field or the surface of a rock. (in medicine) A mental illness characterized by persistent sadness and apathy. Although these feelings can be triggered by events, such as the death of a loved one or the move to a new city, that isn’t typically considered an “illness” — unless the symptoms are prolonged and harm an individual’s ability to perform normal daily tasks (such as working, sleeping or interacting with others). People suffering from depression often feel they lack the energy needed to get anything done. They may have difficulty concentrating on things or showing an interest in normal events. Many times, these feelings seem to be triggered by nothing; they can appear out of nowhere.

developmental (in biology) An adjective that refers to the changes an organism undergoes from conception through adulthood. Those changes often involve chemistry, size and sometimes even shape.

e-cigarette or e-cig (short for electronic cigarette) This is a battery-powered device that disperses nicotine and other chemicals as tiny airborne particles that users can inhale. They were originally developed as a safer alternative to cigarettes that users could use as they tried to slowly break their addiction to the nicotine in tobacco products. These devices heat up a flavored liquid until it evaporates, producing vapors. People who use these devices are known as vapers.

e-liquid A term for the solutions heated to the evaporation point in an electronic cigarette. These solutions are the basis of the vapors that will be inhaled. The liquid typically contains a solvent into which flavorings and nicotine have been dissolved.

epidemic A widespread outbreak of an infectious disease that sickens many people (or other organisms) in a community at the same time. The term also may be applied to non-infectious diseases or conditions that have spread in a similar way.

Food and Drug Administration (or FDA) A part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, FDA is charged with overseeing the safety of many products. For instance, it is responsible for making sure drugs are properly labeled, safe and effective; that cosmetics and food supplements are safe and properly labeled; and that tobacco products are regulated.

high school A designation for grades nine through 12 in the U.S. system of compulsory public education. High-school graduates may apply to colleges for further, advanced education.

marijuana A mind-altering drug. It is made from the leaves (and sometimes stems or seeds) of the Cannabis sativa plant. This drug also goes by the colloquial terms pot and weed.

nicotine A colorless, oily chemical produced in tobacco and certain other plants. It creates the “buzz” associated with smoking. Highly addictive, nicotine is the substance that makes it hard for smokers to give up their use of cigarettes. The chemical is also a poison, sometimes used as a pesticide to kill insects and even some invasive snakes or frogs.

online (n.) On the internet. (adj.) A term for what can be found or accessed on the internet.

pediatrics A field of medicine that has to do with children and especially child health. A doctor who works in this field is known as a pediatrician.

proportion The amount of a certain component of a mixture relative to other components. For example, if a bag contains 2 apples and 3 oranges, the proportion of apples to oranges in the bag is 2 to 3.

psychologist A scientist or mental-health professional who studies the human mind, especially in relation to actions and behaviors.

regulate (n. regulation) To control with actions. Governments write rules and regulations — laws — that are enforced by police and the courts.

risk The chance or mathematical likelihood that some bad thing might happen. For instance, exposure to radiation poses a risk of cancer. Or the hazard — or peril — itself. (For instance: Among cancer risks that the people faced were radiation and drinking water tainted with arsenic.)

smoking A term for the deliberate inhalation of tobacco smoke from burning cigarettes.

survey (v.) To ask questions that glean data on the opinions, practices (such as dining or sleeping habits), knowledge or skills of a broad range of people. Researchers select the number and types of people questioned in hopes that the answers these individuals give will be representative of others who are their age, belong to the same ethnic group or live in the same region. (n.) The list of questions that will be offered to glean those data.

tobacco A plant cultivated for its leaves, which many people burn in cigars, cigarettes, and pipes. Tobacco leaves also are sometimes chewed. The main active drug in tobacco leaves is nicotine, a powerful stimulant (and poison).

vaping (v. to vape) A slang term for the use of e-cigarettes because these devices emit vapor, not smoke. People who do this are referred to as vapers.

vaporize To convert from a liquid to a gas (or vapor) through the application of heat.

====== 72 ========

E-cigarettes don’t need nicotine to be toxic

Think electronic cigarettes without nicotine are harmless? Think again. A new study shows that the flavorings in e-cigs can harm human infection-fighting cells.

E-cigarettes work by heating a flavored liquid to make a mist that users inhale, or “vape.” These flavored liquids, called e-liquids, usually contain nicotine. But not always. Manufacturers add nicotine for vapers who want a buzz from their e-cigarettes. It’s the same stimulant that true cigarettes deliver. That nicotine — made from tobacco — qualifies most e-cigs as “tobacco products.”

The nicotine may be useful for adults who are addicted to cigarettes and want to wean themselves off. But nicotine can harm children and teens. That’s why some young people may choose to vape instead of smoke, and use nicotine-free products. But the new data suggest that e-cigs can still be toxic, even without nicotine.

“We know these flavors are really attractive to teens,” says Irfan Rahman. He works at the University of Rochester in New York. He says studies have shown that one reason many teens try e-cigarettes is an interest in fruity and candy-flavored products.

As a toxicologist, Rahman studies whether various materials can poison the body’s cells or tissues. His team decided to test whether certain flavored e-liquids are toxic (meaning poisonous). They tested several common e-liquid flavorings. These included cinnamon roll, cotton candy, melon, pineapple, coconut and cherry.

Such flavorings are considered safe in foods. That’s because after a person swallows them, they’re broken down in the gut. But that doesn’t mean these same chemicals are safe to breathe in. They could harm parts of the respiratory tract, such as the lungs.

Rahman’s team didn’t expose people to these flavorings, in case they were harmful. Instead, they tested e-liquid chemicals on human cells in a dish. This helped them judge whether the chemicals might also harm cells inside the body.

The answer: Some of the vaped flavorings did prove toxic to those cells. The researchers published their findings in the January Frontiers in Physiology.

Cells vs. cinnamon

After a person vapes, e-liquid chemicals could pass through the walls of small vessels in the lungs to enter the blood, says Thivanka Muthumalage. He’s a researcher in Rahman’s lab.

Rahman’s team wanted to know what would happen when these chemicals encountered blood cells. In one set of tests, the researchers exposed blood cells directly to the flavorings. They chose a type of white blood cell called a macrophage (MAK-roh-fayj). These cells are part of the immune system, which fights disease. Macrophages hunt down and “eat” particles that shouldn’t be in the blood stream. Those foreign particles could be germs or other things that might make people sick.

The team used doses of flavoring chemicals similar to what are in the e-liquids that you can buy at a store, says Muthumalage. The doses in the experiment might even have been lower than what people would vape.

To measure how toxic each chemical was, the researchers looked for signs of stress in the cells, or even cell death. A number of e-liquid flavoring chemicals caused high levels of cell stress or death. Those included flavorings that taste buttery (these contain the chemicals pentanedione and acetoin). They also included flavorings that taste like vanilla (O-vanillin), cotton candy, caramel (maltol) and cinnamon (cinnamaldehyde).

That last one, cinnamaldehyde (Sih-nuh-MAAL-duh-hide), killed the most cells. And that’s bad. Dead immune cells can’t fight infection, explains Muthumalage.

His team’s findings are backed up by a study in the March 27 PLOS Biology. Researchers at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill tested the effects of 148 e-liquids on human cells. When exposed to vapors of some e-liquid flavors, it showed, fewer of these cells grew. The worst culprits? Cinnamaldehyde and vanillin.

A vaping machine

In a second set of tests, the researchers used a “vaping machine” to suck e-liquids through an e-cigarette. Afterward, they measured what vapors had entered the air. These mists are what an e-cig user would ordinarily inhale. The researchers then exposed human cells to these vapors.

Researchers used this machine to mechanically “vape” e-liquids. The researchers then measured harmful chemicals that had been released into the air. Irfan Rahman

They showed that heating each flavoring in an e-cigarette created harmful levels of molecules that can damage cells. What’s more, mixing two or more flavors together caused even higher levels of these damaging molecules than did heating each on its own.

This suggests that breathing in multiple e-liquid flavors could be more dangerous than exposure to just one at a time.

That’s concerning, says Melanie Prinz. She’s a college student who worked on the study in Rahman’s lab. “Teens at parties often pass their [e-cig] devices around,” she notes. That means they could be “sharing and inhaling a lot of different flavors.”

The findings from Rahman’s lab agree with the findings from another study. It looked at vapors from nicotine-free e-cigs. Here, researchers at the University of California San Francisco studied the urine of teens who had vaped e-liquids without nicotine. The researchers looked for toxic chemicals that form when e-liquids are heated. The teens had up to three times the levels of five potentially cancer-causing chemicals in their bodies as did those who didn’t vape. These findings appear in the April Pediatrics.

That was the first study to measure the toxic chemicals that can get into the bodies of teens vaping nicotine-free e-liquids.

Cause for concern

Maciej Goniewicz works at the Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, N.Y. There he, too, studies the health effects of e-cig vapors. Testing the toxicity of e-liquid flavoring on cells is extremely important, he says. It helps identify which chemicals may be “bad actors,” he explains.

If these tests show strong toxicity, they could help government agencies decide which products to regulate — or even ban. Such data, he adds, could also help manufacturers create safer vape products.

One benefit of studying cells in a dish, rather than studying actual people, is that you can limit variables, Goniewicz says. For instance, the Rochester team could omit nicotine, a known bad actor. But in real life, people might vape a liquid with nicotine one day and another without nicotine the next day. This could make it harder for scientists to tease apart the effects of flavorings and nicotine.

But cell studies are just one piece of the puzzle. They’re good for identifying potentially toxic chemicals. They don't, however, tell us about the long-term effects of exposure to them. Human studies will — but they take far longer. A disease may not show up for years or decades after a toxic exposure.

In fact, a large review found that the long-term health effects of vaping are not yet clear. A review is a research paper that gathers the results of other studies. This paper included more than 800 scientific studies — and found cause for concern.

For instance, it found “moderate evidence” that vaping led to more coughing and wheezing in teens, and worse asthma. There is also moderate evidence linking vaping to a short-term rise in blood pressure, and to harmful stiffening of blood vessels. And the review authors found “substantial evidence” that e-cig vapors can damage DNA and cells.

This massive report, released January 23, was issued by the U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine.

====== 73 ========

Bake your way to your next science project!

This step-by-step series from Bethany Brookshire and the Eureka! Lab blog explains how anyone can do research in science (or engineering) and do it right. The experiments here may feature cookies, but the same steps apply whether you’re interested in making a plane fly further, developing a safer pesticide or studying changes in the night sky. All the directions are delivered in bite-size entries so that you can design your own engaging research — for a science fair or just for fun.

Read the project overview and inspiration in Welcome to Cookie Science!

Cookie Science 2: Baking a testable hypothesis. Learn how to get started by developing a testable hypothesis.

Cookie Science 3: The lab notebook. Scientists keep careful records as they conduct research. Here’s how to keep notes and store your data.

Cookie Science 4: Cookie ethics. There are important things to keep in mind when your experiments include people — even if you’re just asking them questions.

Cookie Science 5: ‘Blinding’ your subjects. When you’re working with people in an experiment, you need to make sure your participants do not know the test’s conditions.

Cookie Science 6: Baking it up. Carrying out a good experiment means keeping all but one variable as constant as you can.

Cookie Science 7: How many to bake. Collecting good data means taking a large sample. Here’s how to find out how many tests you need to run.

Statistics: Make conclusions cautiously. Just one experiment isn’t enough to show that one test condition is better than another. Even with good statistics, scientists need to be careful about how they interpret their data.

Cookie Science 8: The meaning of the mean. With data in hand, Bethany can compare her different test conditions — using math.

Cookie Science 9: How data can spread. Analyzing data means finding the differences between groups of numbers.

Cookie Science 10: Finding the cookie difference. Statistics will help me determine whether there are real differences between my experimental conditions.

Cookie Science 11: That’s the way the cookie crumbles. Bethany ran her experiment and learned how to analyze the data. Now it’s time to see what her data show.

Cookie Science 12: Heading to the library. Designing experiments well means reading scientific papers. Here is how to find and interpret them.

Cookie Science 13: The deal with gluten. Bethany is on the prowl for ideas for her next experiment. This means she needs to learn some chemistry.

Cookie Science 14: One experiment, 400 cookies. It's time to bake up the second experiment.

Cookie Science 15: Results aren't always sweet. Bethany put the chew back into her gluten-free cookies. But her results weren't simple.

Cookie Science 16: If I had to do it all again. It's important to review your research when the project is done, to find out what you should do differently next time.

Cookie Science 17: Posters - the good and the bad. Bethany made two posters to show off her project. One is full of "do's." The other is full of "don'ts."

Cookie Science 18: Eating it up. It's the end of Cookie Science, but it could just be the beginning of your next experiment!

And make sure to check out Bethany in the ACS Reactions Video "How to Cookie with Science."

====== 74 ========

People tend to tune out details of ‘female’ jobs

WASHINGTON, D.C. — “Women’s” careers don’t seem as memorable as those traditionally performed by men. That may not be fair, but it’s what the data show, according to a new survey. It was carried out by Isabella Greco, 17, of the Bronx High School of Science in New York City.

Stereotypes are beliefs that people hold — before they have enough information to know whether they are true. This teen was interested in probing stereotypes about women. “I had a personal connection,” Isabella notes. “It was something I saw all around me, the effect of gender stereotypes.”

For instance, Isabella noticed that people might assume her math teacher was a man and her English teacher a woman. Why? Although both men and women hold such jobs, she knew there was a common stereotype that women are more interested in reading, and that men are more likely to be comfortable with math. The teen wondered whether those assumptions might affect what people remember about them.

It turns out that it does, she reports.

Her new study landed the teen a spot as a finalist, here, last week at the Regeneron Science Talent Search. Run by Society for Science & the Public (SSP), this yearly competition brings together 40 high school seniors from around the country to share their projects with the public. They also compete for nearly $2 million in prizes. The Science Talent Search is sponsored by Regeneron, a company that researches and develops new medications. (SSP also publishes Science News for Students and this blog.)

From cows to people

Isabella started out her career in research studying animals. In middle school, for instance, she studied which direction cows preferred to face. Then she tried to find out if pigeons could identify the people who fed them. Neither project worked very well, she recalls. But Isabella came to realize that “I really liked the experience of observing behavior.” By the time she entered high school, she was ready to turn her attention to studying people.

She got in touch with Mitchell Rabinowitz at Fordham University in New York City. He’s a psychologist — someone who studies how people behave. When Isabella explained her interest in probing stereotypes, he invited her to work with his laboratory.

She decided to explore whether gender stereotypes might affect memories. To do that, she designed a survey. It asked participants to read the biographies of six people. They were a nurse, elementary school teacher, pilot, electrical engineer, accountant and public relations executive. The stories described the people and their accomplishments. But Isabella mixed up their stories. Sometimes a woman might have been the pilot — or one of those other careers — and sometimes it was a man.

Isabella Greco shows off her project at the 2017 Regeneron Science Talent Search. Chris Ayers/SSP

She chose this mix of careers because the first two are dominated by women and the next two by men. The last two employ roughly equal numbers of men and women, so Isabella assumed there would be no gender stereotype.

She sent her survey to 138 people on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk. This is a website scientists often use to pay people to take surveys. Half of her recruits were men, half women. After they read their assigned stories, the teen gave the participants a short task to distract them. Later, the teen gave each person a series of statements about the stories that he or she had read. Only some were true. The participants had to state whether or not each statement was “true to the biography.”

When the stories involved people in stereotypical women’s careers — the nurse and the school teacher — people tended to remember less about them than if they were about stereotypically male careers or neutral jobs, Isabella found. This was true even if the person in the story had been a man. “It might just be because people didn’t show as much interest in the feminine-associated occupations,” the teen now says. “They weren’t paying as much attention so their memories might be warped.”

Some of the false statements downplayed a person's achievements. And the participants were more likely to believe those false statements when they were associated with people working in those so-called feminine jobs. “I think it might be because of implicit bias [an unconscious prejudice] against feminine-associated occupations,” Isabella explains. People might view jobs associated with women as having less value.

The teen hopes her work might help people understand the U.S. wage gap — the fact that women earn less than men. “Women in jobs that are dominated by women [like nursing and teaching] receive lower pay,” she explains. Other scientists have shown that this is because the jobs themselves are valued less. Her new data seem to support that, Isabella says. But to be more certain, she plans to do follow-up research.

Follow Eureka! Lab on Twitter

====== 75 ========

Cool Job: Making stellar connections

Paula Jofré wants to map the galactic lineage of every star in the Milky Way. It’s like tracing your family tree — if, that is, your grandparents were the exploding stars we call supernovas.

Jofré is an astrophysicist at Universidad Diego Portales in Santiago, Chile. There, she studies the inner lives and histories of stars. She measures the wavelengths of light these stars emit. That shows her which chemical elements the stars contain. That also tells her the proportions of those elements in each star.

Inspiration from art and biology

The scientist then does something unusual. Borrowing a technique from biology, she traces how the stars evolved.

Biologists can examine the DNA in ancient human remains to trace a population’s history. Jofré does something similar with stars. She uses the composition of modern stars to track how their ancestors moved around our galaxy, the Milky Way. Her best-known work, and the research of which she’s most proud, uses those elements to chart the first family tree of stars in the Milky Way.

She got the idea while a postdoc. She was attending an event at the University of Cambridge in England. It had been organized by an art history student. The focus was how scientists visualize their results. There, Jofré met Cambridge anthropologist Robert Foley. He showed her how evolutionary trees can link relationships between members of a species over time. Stars, Jofré realized, also pass down bits of themselves to successive generations. Perhaps, she thought, those generations could be traced back in time.

She and Foley soon hashed out the stellar family tree project while at dinner in a Cambridge dining hall. (The hall is “very much like a Harry Potter room,” she recalls. All the fellows even wear academic gowns that look similar to Hogwarts robes.) Stars obviously don’t procreate like animals, the pair agreed. However, dying stars do pass on their chemistry, much like parents pass along parts of their DNA to their children.

That happens because stars forge heavy elements, such as carbon and iron. When the stars die, they often explode, spreading those newly formed elements throughout the cosmos. The next generation of stars are born from collapsing clouds of gas containing those elements. That lets them pick up elements from the earlier generation.

And thus, a family is born.

Stars from the same gas cloud should have almost the same chemistry. That’s similar to how siblings share a lot of the same DNA. The analogy is close enough that Jofré, Foley and their colleagues built a three-branched tree showing the relationships of 21 stars that are siblings of the sun. They described it last year in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.

The team also reported that two of the branches were known groupings. One was the Milky Way’s thin disk of stars. The other was an older thick disk that surrounds it. The third branch revealed new connections. That showed that Jofré’s technique does more than map known star relationships. The approach can reveal new information about past stellar nurseries. (Stellar nurseries are places where stars are born.)

All in the family

Paula Jofré and her colleagues borrowed tools from biology to map out chemical relationships between the sun and 21 of its sibling stars. Three main branches emerged: younger stars in the Milky Way’s thin disk (red, including the sun), much older stars that could be in the Milky Way’s more dispersed thick disk (dark blue) and a third branch that lies in between (light blue). Six stars (black) had no clear relationship to the others. More observations could help tie them in.

Source: P. Jofré et al/Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 2017; Credit: T. TIBBITTS

By expanding this approach to more groups of stars, “we could use these trees to learn something about the evolution of our whole galaxy,” Jofré says. “That has been so exciting.”

Jofré sees what other astronomers don’t

This approach is original and inventive, if a little unusual, other astronomers say.

“Paula Jofré impressed me as being very innovative,” says Kenneth Freeman. He’s an astronomer at the Australian National University in Canberra. “She sees things that other researchers do not see.”

Payel Das, of the University of Oxford, is a collaborator on the Milky Way project and a close friend. She calls Jofré “really brave” as a researcher. “She’s very confident, which is really nice. I think especially now — we’re going through this crisis of women in physics and science and all this — we need this confidence.”

Jofré has never shied away from unpopular paths. Before she graduated from an all-girls high school in Santiago, a guidance counselor spoke to her class. That counselor talked about the importance of choosing a career that would leave time for family. She said one shouldn’t, for instance, choose a career in astronomy.

“The whole class looked at me,” Jofré recalls. They knew she had been interested in astronomy since childhood. But that moment only strengthened her resolve. “This woman trying to say, please don’t do that, was for me argument to say, please do it.”

The question of whether astronomy was compatible with a family came up sooner than Jofré expected. Her first child was born before she and her partner, Thomas Maedler, finished their PhDs. Their second was born during her first postdoctoral fellowship. Being the only parents in their group of graduate students was difficult. “You feel quite lonely when you’re the only one,” Jofré says.

But contrary to the guidance counselor’s warnings, parenthood has been grounding for the two. It has even helped keep them focused on what’s important. “We’re always this little nucleus, the four of us — this little atom that is walking around,” Maedler says.

For Jofré, science has been inextricably entwined with family — not just the sun’s, but her own.

====== 76 ========

Cool Jobs: The art of paper folding is inspiring science

Tornados, earthquakes and explosions often trap dazed and injured people beneath fallen buildings and other debris. Rescuers may have trouble sorting through that rubble to safely locate survivors. Invariably, there will be at least some small spaces within that debris. They may be too tiny for humans to fit through. But they’re not too small for some robots.

Such rescue automatons must be very tiny. It would help if they could squeeze and bend, too, to squish through small cracks and crevices. Indeed, such robots might take a lesson or two from critters in the living world — such as cockroaches.

The CRAM robot was inspired by a roach, such as the American cockroach sitting on top of this one. Tom Libby, Kaushik Jayaram and Pauline Jennings. Courtesy of PolyPEDAL Lab UC Berkeley

A few years ago, two researchers actually developed a robo-roach. They named it CRAM. Its name suggests how the robot can move through tiny spaces. And it’s also an acronym. It stands for “compressible robot with articulated mechanisms,” meaning it has bendable joints.

Kaushik Jayaram was a co-creator of the robot while a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley. It certainly helped that this biologist had a background in robotics. Today, he works in Cambridge, Mass., at Harvard University’s Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering.

Clearly, the insect world inspired his design. But so did origami (Or-ih-GAH-mee), the Japanese art of paper folding. And math.

In the design of something like robo-roach (or other critter-inspired robots), researchers “use a lot of math,” Jayaram says. “We combine physics and math to figure out what the robots need to do.”

Kaushik Jayaram discusses his robo-roach research with a group of young students. K. Jayaram

Gravity, friction and other forces slow or limit the movement of robots. The computer-controlled devices must use energy to overcome such forces. Jayaram uses one type of math (algebra) to compute the force that will act on his robots — and, therefore, how much energy those robots will need to carry out their tasks.

For CRAM, Jayaram used a second type of calculations — geometry, the math of shapes — to figure out the range of motion that each of his robot’s joints will need. That has allowed him to help the robot perform a gymnastic feat known as sprawling.

“We can kind of make the robot do a split,” he says. Doing splits helps these mini-robots navigate through tiny spaces, he explains.

Jayaram is just one of many researchers who are combining math and origami techniques to create clever, new products.

Watch a video about the CRAM cockroach robot.

The rules of origami

When they hear the word “origami,” most people envision designs made from a single square of paper. Maybe it’s a simple box, a paper crane or an elaborate dragon. Cutting is usually not allowed. So unfolding one of these designs returns the creation to the original square of paper.

But some types of origami may break one or both of the rules of folding uncut, single sheets of paper.

Origami artist Robert Lang started folding when he was six years old. At first, he copied patterns he found in books. By age 10, he was creating unique designs.

Robert Lang folds an intricate piece in his studio in Alamo, Calif. Diane Lang

But this art wasn’t Lang’s first career. He trained as a physicist and engineer. Eventually, he got a job researching lasers at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.

His career began to morph after he decided to write a book on paper folding. It provided the motivation for Lang to quit his job. He thought he might return to work when the book was done. But “working in origami was really fun,” he realized. And being self-employed allowed him to aid other scientists with their origami research. In the end, he says, “I sort of just never went back.”

Today, Lang helps design everything from solar arrays for outer space to medical implants. And origami-inspired folding serves as the basis for these.

There are different approaches to origami. Take the modular type. Here, artists use multiple sheets of paper to create complex designs. Each individual sheet is folded into a module, or unit. These units are then folded together to create one larger design.

In another type, artists combine cutting and folding to create their designs. This variation is known as “kirigami.”

“Most people consider origami and kirigami to be distinct,” Lang notes. “Origami is mostly folding, with at most a few cuts, but no paper is cut away. Kirigami uses a lot of cuts. And sometimes paper is actually cut away.”

Some people say origami artists don’t use glue. But this is a myth, Lang notes.

Especially for work that may be exhibited, he observes, “quite a few artists (including the great master [Akira] Yoshizawa) use glue to stiffen the paper or hold parts together.”

Beyond paper

Origami comes from two Japanese words — oru and kami. Together, they translate to “paper folding.” Yet not all origami involves paper.

For instance, Paul Rothemund is credited with inventing a research field known as DNA origami. On his webpage, he apologizes for use of that phrase. “‘DNA origami’ had the feeling of ‘DNA folding,’” he notes. He admits, however, that the term “is an abuse of the word.” After all, no paper is involved.

Lang has a different view. “The art form called origami has many definitions,” he says. “The one I prefer is: ‘A form of sculpture in which folding is the primary means of creating the form.’” Here, he argues, origami does not have to be limited to paper. It might involve folding DNA, metals — even plant leaves.

Origami has even inspired scientists to tackle a vast variety of projects, from creating shape-shifting pasta to improving noise barriers for roads.

These and other origami-inspired scientific innovations are powerful because they pack a triple punch. They combine the power of science, art and math.

Lang has experienced this relationship firsthand throughout more than 40 years of folding. He’s combined his artistic and math skills to create more than 700 original designs — everything from woodland animals to three-dimensional multi-pointed stars. Today, he is a leading origami master known for fashioning very complex folds.

Blueprints that focus on geometry

Most times, Lang doesn’t start his origami projects with the folding.

He approaches each new design as a creative problem. Effective problem-solving usually starts with a plan. That’s true for everything from writing an essay to building a house.

Crease patterns are the blueprints of origami, and Lang usually creates one of these before he’s ready to make his first fold.

Lang folds a humungous origami piece in Dusseldorf, Germany. “Different types of designs are best folded with different types of paper,” he notes. He has a paper collection he chooses from based on the size and intricacy of the object he’s folding. Courtesy of R. Lang

Before folding a three-dimensional insect, frog or dancer, for instance, he often begins by creating a mental map of what he wants to “sculpt.”

That’s where geometry comes in.

In his mind, he breaks down his idea for the finished art piece into the many shapes that will make it up. A butterfly, for instance, might be broken down into its wings, antennae and more. He then thinks about what shape might best represent each body part.

A transformation now takes place.

Instead of a body and legs, the proposed artwork becomes “a collection of shapes,” Lang explains. When it’s time to draw this collection of shapes on paper, he uses a technique called polygon packing. Polygons are two-dimensional shapes that have three or more straight sides. Packing, here, refers to finding the best way to arrange all of these many shapes onto a single sheet of paper.

The process isn’t always obvious.

For very complex animals, such as an armadillo, “I can’t really hold it all in my head,” Lang notes. So he starts with just a few parts. He determines what shapes he’ll use to represent those. He then draws that small collection of parts. Once he’s done, he moves on to creating a mental map for the rest of the armadillo’s body. He then adds crease lines to each shape. Only now is he ready to start folding.

Then comes the math

Lang also folds complex, abstract objects, including tessellations (Tess-eh-LAY-shuns). These are groups of shapes that fit closely together. There aren’t any gaps between them. And they don’t overlap. The shapes that make up tessellations are often polygons.

In 2007, Robert Lang folded this origami piece, which he calls “Rings4, Opus 653” from a single, irregular sheet of vellum paper. Vellum is a type of fine parchment paper. The crease pattern for Rings 4, Opus 653 was computed using Mathematica. This piece is an example of a tessellation, or a group of shapes (especially polygons) that are closely fitted together in a repeated pattern. In tessellations, these shapes are spaced so that there aren’t gaps between them and they don’t overlap. Artist Robert J. Lang

To make crease patterns for these objects, Lang often works with a computer program (called Mathematica). Using that program, he writes computer code to describe each shape that will make up the object he wishes to fold.

Much of the code he writes relies on formulas from geometry, trigonometry and linear algebra, he notes. Trigonometry is the math of triangles. It focuses on relationships between the three sides of these shapes, as well as the three angles found within these shapes. Algebra is a type of math that uses symbols called variables — such as x’s and y’s. The equation 5 + x = 7 is an example. (To find the answer, just subtract 5 from both sides. Then you have x = 2.) Linear algebra is an advanced field of math that is typically studied in college. It focuses on equations that have two variables in them, such as an x and a y. When plotted on a graph, these equations form a straight line.

Once Lang has written his code, the computer solves any math problems in it. The computer program then generates a crease pattern for the object he’ll fold.

As a kid, Lang liked math. “I thought math might have even been my primary career,” he notes. As he explored his interests in college, he decided to study electrical engineering and applied physics. He was drawn to these fields because they combine math and “the joy of making things.”

However, he notes, even folks who find math challenging or frustrating can become origami-inspired scientists.

Conquering fractions

Today Brandi Shaw is a chemical engineer. But the path she took to this math-centric job was far from a straight one.

She recalls struggling horribly in middle school with math — especially with fractions. Yet they were far from her only challenge. “I actually failed seventh grade. Flat out failed it,” she recalls. “No summer school – repeated the whole thing,” she explains.

Brandi Shaw presents her team’s research on self-folding polymer sheets at the 2013 American Institute of Chemical Engineers National Conference in San Francisco, Calif. Courtesy of Brandi Shaw

At the time, she notes, “I had a difficult home life . . . and I completely lost interest in school. I didn’t do my work. And I suffered the consequences.”

Eventually, she returned to school, determined to succeed. In the years following that wake-up call, she focused on her studies. She went on to place in the top 10 of her high-school graduating class.

She used her experience hurdling obstacles to fuel her path toward a college degree. She studied at North Carolina State University in what she describes as “one of the best chemical-engineering programs in the country.”

Michael Dickey was one of her first instructors in the field. During class, he discussed research opportunities for college students. Shaw itched for a taste of doing research, so she “got up the guts” to ask Dickey how she could get involved.

“It took a lot of courage,” she says. But asking paid off. Shaw became part of a team that used origami-inspired techniques to create sheets made of some plastic or other polymer. The idea is to make something that will self-fold in a controlled, multi-step process to form a desired shape.

Designs are first printed on the polymer with several colors of ink. These printed lines form printed hinges — the equivalent to crease lines on paper. Each ink responds to a different color of light. The researchers described their approach, last year, in a paper in Science Advances.

An ink that is cyan (SY-an) — or green-blue — absorbs about 80 percent of red light at a wavelength of 660 nanometers (nm). Yellow ink absorbs almost no red light. The result is that cyan hinges fold in response to red light, while yellow hinges are unaffected. The reverse happens when 470 nm blue light shines onto the polymer.

By exposing the polymer sheets to different colors of light at different times, the team controls when each fold takes place. As the polymer absorbs a color of light at one of the hinges, that section of the polymer heats up. The result? That part of the polymer contracts and folds inward. How much it folds depends on the width of the hinge printed onto the polymer.

The team learned how to control the final folded shape of each polymer sheet. In this way, they created everything from nested boxes to 3-D flowers. There are other approaches for folding these sheets into different shapes. But they don’t give researchers much control over the timing of the folds, the team noted in its 2017 paper.

That control is a valuable part of their process, because this folding with lights isn’t just for fun. One day, it might be used to create medical devices. Or it could make products that can be shipped more easily. Flattened products could be sent to customers. Then light could be used to assemble them into their final form. Products built this way also might be easily unfolded in one place and then reassembled elsewhere.

But many of these applications won’t be successful if researchers can’t control the order in which parts assemble.

Shaw graduated from college in 2014. She has a reassuring message for anyone who wants to become a scientist but has been told science might not be for them. “If you’re interested in it, it’s for you,” she says.

Story continues below video.

Brandi Shaw and other researchers at North Carolina State University used different wavelengths of light to fold polymer paper sheets into flowers and other 3-D shapes. Michael Dickey, North Carolina State University/YouTube

Origami inspires bone repairs

Like Shaw, Gulden Camci-Unal is a chemical engineer. She works at the University of Massachusetts in Lowell. But unlike Shaw, her work doesn’t focus on light. Camci-Unal develops biomaterials. Someday, the ones she creates may be used to repair or even regenerate bone, heart muscle, blood vessels, skin and more.

For her bone research, she grows cells called osteoblasts on origami-folded paper. As they grow, these bone cells deposit minerals onto the paper.

She hopes to use these paper-cell combinations as implants. Her research has already shown that the implants aren’t likely to be rejected by the body’s immune system. Still, more work needs to be done before they are ready to help patients.

Recently, Camci-Unal has focused on making the paper part of the implant stronger. And she has investigated different ways that the paper might be broken down in the body once the bone part of the implant is in place.

In the future, such implants might be used to help people who have injuries. Lab-grown parts could repair or replace damaged bones. They might also help people whose bones didn’t grow properly. “This approach can be useful for patients with bone defects of irregular sizes and shapes,” explains Camci-Unal.

She uses math to evaluate certain properties of her materials. For instance, she might calculate how strong these lab-grown bones are. And she might calculate how quickly they break down.

“As a child, I loved math,” Camci-Unal recalls. “I was good at it, I thought it was easy to learn and it was fun.” She also enjoyed folding origami creations and marveled “at the fact that paper, a very simple material, can make such versatile and intricate structures.”

“For as long as I can remember, I always wanted to be in engineering and medicine fields,” she says. “I was so intrigued about different ways that engineers and doctors impact everyday life.”

From Jayaram’s robo-roaches to Camci-Unal’s paper-and-bone combinations, origami-inspired research is driving thrilling innovations.

For anyone who is interested in pursuing a career in one of these exciting fields, Camci-Unal recommends that they “stay curious and explore different subjects.” She advises people to take different types of classes and to “figure out what their passion is.” Then they should use every chance, she says, to expose themselves to different aspects of careers in STEAM — science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics.

