====== 1 ========

SCIENTISTS DISCOVER “SUPER-COLONY” OF 1.5 MILLION ADÉLIE PENGUINS IN IMAGES FROM SPACE

Captured in satellite images, the white stretches of penguin poop stood in stark contrast to the brown rocky surface of Danger islands, a remote archipelago located off the northernmost tip of the Antarctic peninsula. It's not commonly thought to be a popular penguin spot, but the poop was a telltale sign that the black and white birds waddled nearby.

Even so, as Jonathan Amos and Victoria Gill report for BBC News, when scientists ventured out, what they found surprised them: Around 1.5 million Adélie penguins were thriving in these far flung nesting grounds, grouped in some of the largest known colonies of the birds in the world.

A team of scientists led by ecologist Heather Lynch of Stony Brook University in New York first spotted signs of penguin activity in 2014 when using an algorithm to search through images from the Landsat satellite, a craft jointly managed by the USGS and NASA. Though Landsat does not offer particularly clear images, the researchers were surprised when they saw such a large area spotted with penguin poop, Robert Lee Hotz reports for The Wall Street Journal. A year later, another team visited the location and discovered a far larger population of Adélie penguins than they had ever imaged.

Researchers counted penguins by hand but also used drone imagery to scan large portions of the island. They counted 751,527 pairs of Adélie penguins, as detailed Friday in the journal Scientific Reports.

Tom Hart from Oxford University, who was part of the team investigating the penguin populations, tells the BBC: "It's a classic case of finding something where no-one really looked! The Danger Islands are hard to reach, so people didn't really try that hard.”

This new discovery comes in sharp contrast to the current state of other species of penguins in the Antarctic. Earlier this week, a report suggested that the king penguin population, which can breed on just a few islands in Antarctica, could suffer up to a 70 percent decline by 2100 if they don’t find a new home.

Until now, researchers thought the Adélie penguin was suffering a similar fate as a result of climate change. As the BBC reports, Adélie penguin populations on other parts of Antarctica are in decline, especially on the western side of the continent. A 2016 report even suggested that Adélie colonies could decline by up to 60 percent by the end of the century. Scientists have linked the plunging numbers to a reduction in sea ice and warming sea temperatures, which have severely impacted krill populations, the penguin’s main source of food.

But the new report shows a different story. As Lynch tells Hotz that the Adélie penguins population has been stable on the Danger Islands since the 1950s, as evidenced by aerial photos of the region from 1957.

According to Hotz, the populations is likely protected by a thick section of sea ice that isolates the islands and prevents fishing fleets from depleting the penguin's food sources. But that's just one reason for the surprising health of the super colony—researchers aren’t exactly sure why they've been spared the struggles of other populations, Brandon Specktor writes for Live Science.

As Specktor reports, the international Commission for the Conservation of the Antarctic Marine Living Resources is considering a proposal to recognize the Danger Islands as a marine protected area, or MPA, where human activity is limited for conservation purposes.

This new study provides evidence that conservation efforts are needed, Rod Downie, head of polar programs at conservation organization World Wildlife Fund, tells The Independent’s Josh Gabbatiss.

“This exciting discovery shows us just how much more there still is to learn about this amazing and iconic species of the ice,” Downie says. “But it also reinforces the urgency to protect the waters off the coast of Antarctica to safeguard Adélie penguins from the dual threats of overfishing and climate change.”

Scientists now believe more than 4.5 million breeding pairs of Adélie penguin population exist in Antarctica today, about 1.5 million more than they estimated 20 years ago.

Editor's Note March 5, 2018: The headline of this article has been changed to clarify that the penguins were identified in images taken in space.

====== 2 ========

A JAMESTOWN SKELETON IS UNEARTHED, BUT ONLY TIME—AND SCIENCE—WILL REVEAL HIS TRUE IDENTITY

Dead men tell no tales—but a skeleton in a church gravesite has given Jamestown Rediscovery archaeologists quite the story.

Related Content New Jamestown Discovery Reveals the Identities of Four Prominent Settlers

This week, Rediscovery scientists uncovered new evidence, including a skull and teeth, of a skeleton that may belong to Sir George Yeardley in the remains of a church in Jamestown, Virginia. Yeardley, the colonial governor who presided over the first representative assembly in the Western hemisphere, was also one of America’s first slaveholders.

This assembly, which took place in 1619, was a momentous first step in ushering in a new age of colonial rule, though it would be decades before modern democracy would be established in the region. Still, many scholars hail Yeardley for his role in championing the participation of citizens in their own government. Yeardley died at Jamestown in 1627 at the age of 39, and was likely honored with a grand commemoration at the time of his passing.

Since 1994, scientists have been excavating Jamestown, the site of the first permanent English settlement in North America, where three ships first docked in April of 1607. A project originally pioneered by archaeologist Bill Kelso, Jamestown Rediscovery has already unearthed two million artifacts, painting an increasingly intricate portrait of this cornerstone of American history—but the discovery of this early American may be their most groundbreaking yet.

According to David Givens, director of archaeology at Jamestown Rediscovery, Yeardley’s identity is far from definitive and confirmation awaits further analyses, including DNA sequencing. "We believe this person to be Sir George Yeardley, “ says Givens. “Now we’re going to let science tell us if we’re right or wrong."

The skeleton in question appears to be of the right age, and is largely intact, enabling estimates of several of the body’s original features. Additionally, the specimen was unearthed from a grave positioned in a place reserved for only those of high status: in the central aisle, intersecting with what colonists referred to as the “quire” (choir) of what was once the town’s second church, a wooden structure erected in 1617. Additionally, a large tombstone commemorating a knighthood—another mark of prestige bequeathed on Yeardley—once occupied the same church that now bears Yeardley’s supposed remains, and was believed to have sealed his grave. The grave appears to be aligned with the church’s foundations and is devoid of any deconstruction rubble, tentatively indicating that it was dug before the church was dismantled in 1639, 12 years after Yeardley’s death.

Notably, this is the first time that high-frequency ground-penetrating radar has been used in the identification of archaeological skeletal remains. The technique pulses radar deep into the soil and sends back signals of remains beneath the surface, enabling researchers to visualize the evidence without disturbing the artifacts. Such a precaution not only gives a complete picture of a pristinely preserved specimen, but also informs the excavation strategy.

“When we’re digging an archaeological site, we’re going in blind,” explains Peter Leach, an archaeologist at Geophysical Survey Systems, Inc. who collaborated on the project. “Excavation is destructive. . . so being able to look through the soil is powerful.”

Typically, only lower-frequency pulses have been used at previous sites, as these tend to penetrate deeper into the earth. However, the further down the signals go, the poorer the resolution is. High-frequency versions, which have, up until this point, been used almost exclusively to detect rebar and wiring in slabs of concrete during deconstruction and remodeling, were considered impractical for archeological purposes: they had the precision, but not the depth.

But Leach was willing to take that gamble. In the hunt for a gravesite, shallow treasure was a given—and the perfect opportunity to see if high-frequency ground-penetrating radar could visualize bones. Leach encouraged Givens to stop digging just above the lid of a coffin, then give Leach a call.

And hit pay dirt they did.

“The radar was so detailed that when we dug [the skeleton] up, it was like, ‘That’s exactly what we were seeing,” says Givens.

Excavation revealed well-preserved arms, legs and ribs, and even a large number of teeth. For a while, the head was MIA—but then the scientists remembered an orphan skull that had been mysteriously unearthed from a nearby grave the previous year. Perhaps it belonged to their mystery man, and had simply been dislodged by a second burial. They’d be able to potentially confirm a match with DNA analysis—but in the meantime, there was a faster, albeit messier way to tell: they had a jaw bone and a handful of loose teeth—did the keys fit the lock?

They did. This confirmation was—literally—the crowning jewel on their find. They had a head—one that could be scanned to generate a 3D reconstruction of the body’s original face. But the vast majority of the work is yet to come: archaeology is arduous and delicate, far more than a group of researchers playing around in dirt.

“We’re trying to reconstruct a jigsaw puzzle, but sometimes someone comes in and kicks the table,” says Leach.

Doug Owsley, lead forensic anthropologist at Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History, will head the analysis of the skeletal remains back in Washington, D.C. Since 1996, Owsley has been “reading” human remains at Jamestown—over half of his 40-year career in physical anthropology. “We’re studying this whole process of becoming American through a record written in the bones,” he says.

For him, the excavation goes far beyond what first meets the eye: Owsley notes that each skeleton emerges with a personal history that dictates sex, age, health, lifestyle, ancestry and more. The teeth alone are a wellspring of information: cavities betray grain or sugar consumption, while abscesses shed light on painful illnesses.

Advances in chemical testing will also enable the researchers to learn the skeleton’s diet and travel history. Radiocarbon dating, for instance, can approximately bracket when the body was buried. The bones in our bodies have different regenerative capacities: teeth, for instance, stop growing in early childhood, and make a good snapshot of what you were eating and drinking in youth. Femurs, on the other hand, might reveal the last ten or 15 years of growth; ribs, the last two to five. And so, by pulling samples from all over this skeleton’s body, archaeologists can reconstruct an incredibly accurate life history.

Nitrogen in the bones, for instance, could reveal how much meat was in this man’s diet, which might hint at his social status (Yeardley, while not born noble, quickly rose to prominence in Jamestown). Similarly, different species of oxygen molecules can be matched to country-specific rainwater. If the bones are Yeardley’s, one might expect a layering of oxygen flavors: one for his early years in England, overlaid by a stripe indicative of the Americas. Finally, different types of carbon molecules exist in plants native to either England or the Americas: Corn, a true American classic, would not be expected to appear in the teeth—which preserve only our earliest eating habits—of a native Englishman, but would rear its head in the legs and ribs if he traveled to America.

But the lynchpin of this investigation is perhaps the most elusive puzzle piece of all. Over the next six to eight months, geneticist and archaeologist Turi King of the University of Leicester will do some excavating of her own—but this time, entirely above ground. Her laboratory has already played an instrumental role in identifying the remains of Richard III, and many of the same techniques will be deployed anew in the search for Yeardley.

To confirm his identity, King will need to carefully extract DNA from bits of bone, which involves crushing samples to liberate the necessary molecules. She’ll then compare the fragments she isolates to DNA from known living descendants of Yeardley—but not just any relative will do. King is searching for mitochondrial DNA or Y chromosomes in all-female or all-male lineages, respectively, from Yeardley’s line. These genetic traits are passed through only one sex or the other, putting tough constraints on her search. And while sampling DNA from a living person in modern times has become a breeze, “ancient DNA is a different kettle of fish,” King says. “It tends to be very damaged.” And as her team works, King must take every precaution against contaminating the 400-year-old skeleton’s DNA—a costly mistake that could be as simple as breathing on or brushing up against the samples.

The team hopes to have definitive findings by mid-2019, when they will be profiled by the Smithsonian Channel as a part of its series “American Hidden Stories.” Next year also marks the 400th anniversary of Yeardley’s two legacies as an assembly leader and as a slaveholder. The clash of these two hallmarks of American history further illuminate a period of immense sociopolitical turmoil: in its early years, Jamestown survived several sieges by the region’s natives, an abandonment by leadership, and famines that drove its residents to occasional cannibalism.

Jamestown Rediscovery weds a team of dizzying expertise from around the world, assembling support from the Skeletal Biology Program at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History; specialists in ground penetrating radar from Geophysical Survey Systems, Inc.; King’s lab at the University of Leicester; dental specialists Joshua Cohen of Virginia Commonwealth University and Martin Levin of the University of Pennsylvania; and many others.

“One of the things that excites me the most, as an archaeologist, is to work with a team of world class archaeologists, and to experience the camaraderie and collaborations,” says Leach. “It’s really a dream come true.”

In the months ahead, the team will continue to gather evidence for (or perhaps against) the identification of Sir George Yeardley in these remains. But regardless of the skeleton’s identity, this particular investigation is only a piece of the culmination of decades of work in the nation’s first settlement. Yeardley or not Yeardley, this individual will weave a thread to the ever-growing tapestry of Jamestown’s colorful history—and far more remains to be discovered.

“And if it’s not [Yeardley],” says Givens, “then who got such a prominent burial in the church?”

Editor's note, July 25, 2018: Due to an editing error, this article's headline has been updated to better contextualize the identity of Sir George Yeardley, an English colonist who came to a continent already populated by Native Americans.

====== 3 ========

WHY MANTIS SHRIMPS, NOT SHARKS, MIGHT BE THE MOST AMAZING PREDATORS IN THE SEA

When you think about fearsome predators in the ocean, the first thing that pops into your mind is probably a shark. Sure, sharks are OK, with their sleek, menacing shape and their gaping jaws with rows of jagged teeth. But if you were a fish living on a coral reef or cruising along the shore over the sands of a tropical island, you would fear a far more terrifying predator.

Consider an armored, tank-like creature looking something like a lobster. Most are quite small, often tinier than your little finger, though some can be as long as your forearm. This animal doesn’t swim around like a shark; instead, it hides in the sand or in rocky holes in coral, searching the water above with constantly roving eyes. It can snatch prey right out of the water in a tiny fraction of a second.

And it accomplishes this feat without claws. Instead, it’s armed with a powerful pair of what scientists call “raptorial appendages” that end in a brutal hammer or a series of vicious, pointed spines. These prey-catching arms look somewhat like the front legs of a praying mantis, which gives these creatures their name – mantis shrimps.

They’re crustaceans – the group of hard-shelled animals that includes crabs, lobsters and shrimps. The strength of the mantis shrimps’ raptorial arms together with their amazing eyes make them perfect predators.

Massively powerful predators

Mantis shrimps’ raptorial appendages contain massive muscles that can extend them to their full length in hundredths of a second, producing strike forces that in some species can smash through the glass wall of an aquarium or instantly dismember a crab. These smashing attacks are so forceful they produce tiny bubbles in the water. When these cavitation bubbles collapse in a flash of light, they release additional energy onto the target. Boat propellers and turbine blades are often ruined by cavitation forces; mantis shrimps use them to crack the hard shells of their victims.

Other species, with spiny raptorial appendages, impale fish or shrimp with a vice-like grip that allows the mantis shrimp to drag them down into its burrow – often, in the blink of an eye.

Mantis shrimps – properly called stomatopod crustaceans – first appeared in the oceans about 400 million years ago, and have been evolving on their own route to perfection ever since. By now, they are only distantly related to any other living animal, including ones that arose from their crustacean ancestors. They’re so unusual that they seem to have arrived from another planet - in fact, vision scientist Mike Land jokingly calls them “shrimps from Mars.”

There are almost 500 known species of mantis shrimp. However, they stay well concealed in their rocky and sandy burrows, and only a few scientists study them, so there are probably many new mantis shrimps yet to be discovered. Almost all live in shallow, marine waters, and most inhabit the tropics.

Remarkable eyes of the mantis shrimp

Like all crustaceans (insects, too), mantis shrimps have compound eyes – think of the eyes of crabs, bees, or butterflies. Each eye has hundreds of separate facets, each of which is a single unit of the entire compound eye. But mantis shrimp eyes are far more specialized than all other compound eyes, in some ways more than any other eyes biologists have ever discovered.

For one thing, each eye is like three eyes squeezed into one. The three parts all look at the same point in space, much as our two separate eyes focus on the same scene. We use our two eyes to locate an object in space. Mantis shrimps can work out the distance to objects they’re looking at using a single eye.

Two eye parts, at the top and bottom of the eye, are probably involved in this distance vision. The third part is built from parallel rows of facets that run around the middle of the eye like a belt. Usually there are six rows, though a few species have only two. This part of the eye is called the “midband,” and it supports many special abilities.

Further, most mantis shrimps see ultraviolet light – part of the electromagnetic spectrum that causes sunburn in you or me and that is invisible to our eyes. Mantis shrimps not only sense this light, but with their specialized midbands they even see separate colors of it.

This feature is on top of another set of color detectors that see the same visible light we’re used to – but in eight color channels as opposed to the three primary colors we see. Imagine trying to build a TV that looks right to a mantis shrimp. Besides the red, green, and blue colors that your TV uses to create a vivid picture, it would require pixels for violet, indigo, blue-green, orange and a deeper red than we can see.

And the midband can do even more. It can detect the polarization of light – where all the waves vibrate in the same plane. Our eyes cannot see this property of light. Mantis shrimps image things using it.

So putting together all its visual talents, when a mantis shrimp sees a fish, it’s in patterns of ultraviolet colors, eight primary regular colors and polarized light. Their eyes gather all this information and pass it on to the animal’s brain, so it can decide what to attack, when to attack it, how far away it is, and what it looks like in a dozen different ways. It’s hard for a human to even imagine the visual world of a mantis shrimp.

Letting down its defenses

With superpower vision coupled to explosive predatory arms, it seems like mantis shrimps would be invincible. But even these animals have their worries. Mantis shrimps can not only kill other animals, like fish, octopus or crabs. They can also kill each other. This raises a serious problem. Eventually, it’s time to reproduce – but how does a mantis shrimp know when another one it meets wants to mate rather than make a murderous assault?

Mantis shrimps have been forced to evolve ways to recognize when it’s safe to get intimate and to signal their own nonlethal intent. They use their special vision for this too. Mantis shrimps are often brightly colored, and they display patterns – invisible to us – in ultraviolet and polarized light. The complicated displays inform other members of their species, or of different ones, what they plan to do. If their plans include reproduction, and the viewer is of similar mind, then they can safely mate and initiate a new generation of their species.

So, yes – sharks are all right. But do they have bullet-like strikes? Do they have super-vision? Can they take down prey in milliseconds? It’s mantis shrimps that have these abilities, and they use them to become some of the world’s most impressive predators.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Thomas Cronin, Professor of Biological Sciences, University of Maryland, Baltimore County

====== 4 ========

COULD THESE GLASSES CURE YOUR MOTION SICKNESS?

As a kid, I could read for hours in the back of a car zigzagging through the mountains, no problem. A full day of loop-de-loop roller coasters at a nearby amusement park was the highlight of the summer.

These days, simply sitting on a park swing makes me queasy. Reading in a car on a winding road? Not unless you want to see what I had for breakfast.

As a sufferer of motion sickness, I’m not alone. Almost everyone is susceptible to some degree—about 5 percent of us are severely affected, while another 5 percent are relatively immune. Women report more and worse sickness, as do migraine sufferers. Many people become less susceptible with age, while others (hello) become more.

Recently, a French company has begun selling a pair of glasses it says can reduce motion sickness in 95 percent of cases. The Boarding Glasses look like swim goggles for some four-eyed alien species, with two round lenses in front and two on the side, the hollow rims each half filled with blue liquid.

“Motion sickness comes from a sense of conflict between what your eyes can see and what your balance system and your inner ears can feel,” says Antoine Jeannin, CEO of Boarding Ring, the company that makes the glasses.

With the Boarding Glasses, the liquid moves with the movement of the boat or vehicle, creating an artificial horizon.

“Your eyes always get the reality of the movement and get a signal that is consistent with the balance system perception,” Jeannin says.

You put the glasses on at the first sign of sickness, leave them on for 10 or 12 minutes, and then take them off. Usually this cures you of nausea for the rest of the journey, Jeannin says.

The glasses were invented by Jeannin’s father, Hubert, who spent a career working in optics before dedicating himself to the problem of motion sickness. Hubert Jeannin patented his innovation in 2004 and tested the Boarding Glasses prototypes with the French navy, and, although the exact results are confidential, his son says it was extremely successful—some 95 percent of users found the glasses helpful within 10 minutes. Father and son now run the company together, with father handling innovation and son handling business. The €90 ($106) glasses are now in pre-order and will ship in December. There is also a special limited edition pair being developed for the Citroen auto company.

The Boarding Glasses are the latest in a series of anti-motion sickness innovations going back thousands of years. Ancient Chinese texts speak of seasickness as well as “cart sickness”—motion sickness caused by riding in a horse-drawn cart—and “litter sickness,” caused by riding in a sedan chair. The Yuan Dynasty physician Zhu Danxi suggested drinking the urine of young boys as a remedy. Later Chinese medical texts recommend praying to the goddess of sailors or bringing a bit of dirt from your kitchen floor along on a sea journey, for protection. Early Greeks and Romans also recognized seasickness and noted that professional sailors were relatively immune. Their cures included sniffing fragrant herbs like thyme and mint, rubbing ground wormwood in the nostrils, eating rose petals boiled in wine, or simply fasting before a voyage.

Though motion sickness is mainly a nuisance today, in the past it actually could have serious ramifications. Caesar wrote of how some of his troops, swept to Greek shores by stormy seas, were too exhausted to fight and were executed. When Napoleon launched a camel corps during his campaign in Egypt, some soldiers would become so sick from the animals’ swaying motion they couldn’t fight. Immigrants on the journey to the Americas over the centuries were known to occasionally die of seasickness-induced dehydration, as did babies whose seasick mothers could no longer produce enough milk.

Despite its commonness, motion sickness is not well understood. Most experts think it has something to do with a confusion between the signals received by the body (we’re moving!) and the ones received by the eyes (the seat in front of me is stable—we’re not moving!). But why, exactly, this causes nausea is not clear. One theory, from the 1970s, suggests nausea and vomiting is an evolutionary adaptation to the body-eyes signal mismatch, as this could historically have been caused by reactions to eating toxic plants. Another, more recent, theory suggests it may have to do with our inability to maintain a stable posture in a moving environment.

Common and well-accepted modern remedies for motion sickness include keeping your eyes on the horizon, choosing your seat wisely (front or driver’s seat in a car, center of a boat, over the wings on a plane), avoiding alcohol and fatty foods, and taking medications such as Dramamine or scopolamine.

But these are rarely complete cures. So people keep looking. We suck lemons, chew ginger and sniff peppermint oil. We try folk remedies like taping an aspirin to our belly buttons (Google it). Inventors have been working hard for a cure too, with sometimes curious results. There are patents for a number of anti-motion sickness devices, including a pair of blinders to block out visual information, a head mounted projection device meant to make visual information line up with sensory information, and shutter glasses that open and close rapidly, meant to prevent the visual slippage associated with motion sickness.

Thomas Stoffregan, a professor of kinesiology at the University of Minnesota who studies motion sickness, is skeptical that technologies like Boarding Glasses will be especially effective.

“People have been trying to use an artificial horizon in the context of motion sickness for several decades, at least since the 1970s,” he says. “It’s never worked. My question to this company is ‘what’s different about your virtual horizon?’”

In response, Jeannin says the Boarding Glasses are unique because they bring an artificial horizon to the peripheral vision—that's why the glasses have four lenses—unlike other products, which only engage the central vision.

Stoffregan, who pioneered the theory that postural stability—our ability to keep our bodies stable—is the main factor behind motion sickness, says the best motion sickness remedies don’t necessarily involve technology at all.

“One thing that demonstrably does help for seasickness is to get up on deck and look at the actual horizon,” he says. “In automobiles, I say sit in front and look out the window. Don’t look at the grass going by—look at the horizon. Also, sit down and use the headrest.”

Since the Boarding Glasses won’t be available to try for months, I’ll be testing out Stoffregan’s theory on my next car trip, eyes glued to the horizon, head pinned to the seatback.

====== 5 ========

THIS ARTIST DWELLS IN THE CLANDESTINE WORLD OF CLASSIFIED SECRETS AND SURVEILLANCE

Trevor Paglen thinks of himself as working in the tradition of the landscape photographer.

So much so that a work by 19th century landscape photographer Timothy O’Sullivan is included in the mid-career survey “Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen,” which opened recently at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C.

In Paglen’s DMSP 5B/F4 From Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, he captures the same horizon O’Sullivan did in 1867. But in the nighttime grandeur, the viewer notes that amid the stars traveling in the same direction, one is forging an opposite course.

“I’m trying to understand what the landscape looks like now,” Paglen says of today’s night sky. And to do so, “I set up the photograph in such a way, I knew there was going to be a secret reconnaissance satellite moving through the frame of the photograph while I had the shutter of the camera open.”

Paglen says he sees himself in the tradition of photographers such as O’Sullivan, who have captured the scene before, but with a twist. And in capturing the errant path of a spy satellite he’s making another commentary on photography, there isn’t just an update, he says, but a new dimension.

“This is a spy satellite taking pictures of the ground,” he says, so in addition to taking a picture of the landscape, “in a way, the landscape is also taking a picture of me.” He even inserts himself into the space landscape by designing satellites soon to be launched for no other reason than to briefly reflect back to Earth. Later this year, Paglen will launch his own for-art-only Orbital Reflector into outer space in collaboration with the Nevada Museum of Art.

O’Sullivan, like Eadweard Muybridge and other renown photographers of the late 19th century, did some of their work as survey photographers for the U.S. government, Paglen has pointed out. So they too, in their way, were reconnaissance photographers. Paglen offers this as an entry into the basis of his work, which he says is about the act of seeing.

“Who is seeing?” he asks. “What are the power dynamics of seeing? What are the politics of seeing? What are the histories of seeing that are always embedded in anything we turn our attention to?”

It all hints at the shadowy world of surveillance and subterfuge that lies close beneath the surface in much of his work and is seen in the shimmering desert views that hide military outposts or in overhead shots taken at spy sites like the National Security Agency campus in Fort Meade, Maryland. It’s still a sort of landscape photography—but one that is attempting to glimpse a clandestine world.

John Jacob, the museum’s curator for photography, says the images “show something we’re not meant to see, whose concealment he regards as symptomatic of the historical moment that we inhabit.”

“He opens our eyes to the world in which we live,” says Stephanie Stebich, the museum’s director. “In Washington D.C., these questions about the world which we have created are always relevant.”

In addition to the photographs, though, there are other artifacts of Paglen’s inquiries, the largest of which is a round inflatable Prototype for a Nonfunctional Satellite and a more angular prototype for the inflatable Orbital Reflector, the 100-foot-long satellite that he’ll be launching this fall—a project that was funded by a $70,000 Kickstarter campaign last year in collaboration with the Nevada Museum of Art.

Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen Looking toward the earth, sea, or sky as earlier artists have, Paglen captures the same horizon seen by Turner in the 19th century or by Ansel Adams in the 20th century. Only in Paglen’s images, a drone or classified communications satellite is also visible. “For me,” Paglen observes, “seeing the drone in the 21st century is a bit like Turner seeing the train in the 19th century.” Buy

Paglen also presents an array of military patches from clandestine missions that he has collected, some of which depict aliens or the ’Spy vs. Spy’ characters from Mad magazine. One wall has a list of the endless code names for secret operations that he has collected, from “Able Ally” to “Zodiac Beauchamp.”

“You end up with this almost kind of found poetry,” says Paglen, who divides the names into those collected pre- and post-Edward Snowden, the former contractor who leaked tens of thousands of classified files (Paglen contributed images to the Oscar-winning documentary about Snowden, CitizenFour).

His photographs of hidden buildings, sometimes shot from a distance of 20 miles away, are on display, as is an image of the playful beach on Long Island, where underwater international internet cables converge. Space is a constant interest to him, whether it’s the alleged UFO outpost of Area 51 he investigates, or messages left in the galaxy for other intelligent life.

Another aspect of the exhibition looks at the phenomenon of face recognition software—and how computers identify people and objects, and who has the power to control such systems.

Many of the works can be appreciated simply for their visual splendor, such as the swirl of concentrate circles in his 2010 work STSS-1 and Two Unidentified Spacecraft Over Carson City (Space Tracking and Surveillance System, USA 205). But one grim corner is a model of a sculpture designed for the exclusion zone in Fukushima, site of the 2011 nuclear disaster. Trinity Cube, 2016, blends irradiated glass from the site with some of the sand that turned to glass when the U.S. exploded the first test nuclear bomb in New Mexico in 1945.

“This is an artist’s proof,” he says in pointing out the box, adding with assurance, “it is not radioactive.”

Born in Camp Springs, Maryland, and now living in Berlin, Paglen has a master’s degree in fine art from the Art Institute of Chicago and a doctorate in geography from the University of California Berkeley.

A 2017 MacArthur Foundation “genius” grant recipient, Paglen has turned his research into five books about black-ops sites, state secrecy and military symbology. Among them is the 2009 Blank Spots on the Map: The Dark Geography of the Pentagon’s Secret World.

Despite acclaim for the books, Paglen says his work is chiefly focused on art. “As the world gets more and more complicated, you have to do a lot of research to put yourself in the position to see something if you’re able to see it,” he says.

Such as that spy satellite in his Pyramid Lake photograph. “Some of that work you do can look journalistic, or it can look academic, or it can look more gonzo than that,” he says. “But that’s where it comes from.”

Throughout, says Jacob, Paglen is “carrying on the museum’s long record of critically examining America’s changing relation to its landscape in embracing the timely topics of privacy and surveillance.”

Further, Jacob says “it also responds to Secretary David Skorton’s vision for the Smithsonian Institution as “a catalyst for convening a national conversation about the critical ideas of the day.”

"Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen," curated by John Jacob, continues at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C. through January 6, 2019. It is scheduled to travel to The San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art Feb. 21-June 2, 2019.

====== 6 ========

HOMECOMING KING: THE NATION’S T. REX RETURNS TO THE SMITHSONIAN

Just a couple inches closer and it’s all over for this Triceratops. Towering overhead, the Tyrannosaurus rex looms large and menacing, one stabilizing foot planted firmly onto the Triceratops’ flank, as its monstrous maw descends to tear its victim’s head from its frilly shoulders.

It’s the gut-wrenching theater of macabre, enough to raise the hairs on the back of anyone’s neck. The good news? The pair, frozen in this frightful snapshot, will soon be on display for all the world to see.

Today, the National Museum of Natural History unveiled a sneak peek of the “Nation’s T. rex” in its momentous return to Washington, D.C. after a four-year hiatus. It also announced that the newly renovated “David H. Koch Hall of Fossils—Deep Time” will open to the public on Saturday, June 8, 2019, a debut that will include the first fully assembled T. rex skeleton to be on display at the Smithsonian. The patriotically-named dinosaur returns after a few years abroad—but rex hasn’t squandered its time soaking up the sights. The fossils of this T. rex have spent the last four years being meticulously assembled by a team of scientists in Canada.

The new Hall is named in honor of philanthropist David H. Koch, who made a generous contribution of $35 million, the largest single donation in the Museum's history. The entire project is projected to cost $125 million.

“Our dinosaurs are coming home,” says the Museum’s director Kirk Johnson at a preview of the hall today. And not just to any home: the new hall will reopen as what Johnson describes as the “most visited room in the most visited natural history museum in the world.” As a whole, the Museum delights 7 million patrons from around the world each year.

For now, the T. rex is not yet assembled into its final form: The skeleton only recently arrived back on American soil, bones parceled out between a dizzying number of crates that await unpacking. The display will eventually yield a formidable and fully-formed beast standing at about 15 feet tall and 40 feet long, poised to glut on the body of an unlucky Triceratops. This cinematic scene will take about a month to assemble—but the exhibit has already been decades in the making.

In 1988, rancher Kathy Wankel was baffled to stumble upon the pristine skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus rex while enjoying an innocent hike with her family in Montana’s Fort Peck reservoir. Because they were on federal property, Wankel quickly notified the authorities. Over the next two years, the newly dubbed “Wankel rex” was carefully excavated by a team of paleontologists led by Jack Horner from the Museum of the Rockies in nearby Bozeman. For nearly 20 years, the 66-million-year-old fossils held tenure in the Montana museum, splayed in the original configuration in which the bones had been found—the T. rex’s “death pose.”

But five years ago, the Smithsonian’s Museum of Natural History finalized a 50-year loan agreement with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to display the Wankel rex in the nation’s capital, securing what Johnson calls “the first significant addition to the fossil hall since 1981.”

And so, in 2014, seven tons of fossils began a lumbering 2,000-mile weekend road trip from Montana to Washington, D.C., nestled in the back of a hefty FedEx 18-wheeler emblazoned with a grandiose tagline: “Delivering History.” The Nation’s T. rex was (re)born.

Upon the T. rex’s arrival at the Museum, hundreds of bones were carefully unwrapped from a veritable bevy of packing material required to withstand the turbulent trip. The fossils were first 3D-scanned to generate a lasting digital rendering of the skeleton that could be studied past the lifespan of the precious, material bones.

Some fortunate patrons who visited the Museum between the months of April and October of 2014 had the chance to see the scanning process in action in an annexed Rex Room. But by fall of that year, the daunting dino mascot was again on the move— this time, crossing international borders in a hard detour to the Great White North. Before rex could premiere to the public, it first needed to be fitted for its debutante dress: A set of custom metal frames for each individual bone, cradling the delicate fossils while anchoring them to the scaffold of its final choreography.

This task fell to Ontario’s Research Casting International, an aptly named firm with a prestigious history of assembling dinosaurs for museums around the world. It’s a game of Jenga with incomprehensible stakes. Gone are the days when curators drilled holes into fossils to install binding ropes and bars (a fate tragically endured by many of the former Hall’s original specimens): The goal now is to preserve—not only for display purposes, but also so scientists can still access the individual specimens for future research. Thus, each of the metal ligaments that secures the fossils is removable.

Complicating matters was the issue of theatrics. The Montana “death pose” may have been accurate, but Smithsonian curators were determined to maneuver the bones into a configuration that displayed T. rex in all its former glory—something at the intersection of realistic and visually striking, all while being mindful of the irreplaceable fossils themselves. Fortunately, much of the finagling could be done digitally, thanks to the Museum’s 3D scans. But the question remained: How would rex regale? It was truly the world’s most intimidating jigsaw puzzle.

But then arose the idea of adding a second player: a Triceratops. It was a unique scenario—something no other museum had executed before, positioning two dinosaurs in a fight that would have happened 66 to 68 million years ago. “It allowed us to do something no one’s done yet with a T. rex: these two animals directly engaged,” explains Matthew Carrano, the Museum’s curator of dinosaurs.

Upon closer inspection, the Triceratops underfoot may seem familiar to the most zealous of natural history buffs. Nicknamed “Hatcher” for his paleontologist discoverer, the Triceratops in question has been on display at the Smithsonian since 1905, albeit usually in less precarious situations. In truth, Hatcher is actually a not-so-secret clone, cast from a cobbling of different Triceratops skeletons in 1998; yet another replica will be the one to join the Wankel rex in Hatcher’s final matinee.

In addition to a partial decapitation, Hatcher will sport a broken horn and a couple fractured ribs—a grisly indication of the T. rex’s staggering power. But the Triceratops’ fate may have already been sealed: It’s unclear whether T. rex is poised to deliver a fatal blow, or simply capitalizing on some conveniently located roadkill.

Although T. rex is recognized as the largest carnivore in western North American during its time, scientists are not sure whether the tyrant king was more of a predator or a scavenger; the two certainly aren’t mutually exclusive. So, while it’s plausible that a Triceratops would have comprised a typical T. rex treat, the nature of their interaction—and whether the Triceratops had already been felled by some other malady first—is left up to the imagination. The send-off seems grim, but no one can say Hatcher isn’t retiring in style.

Once Carrano and Research Casting International were satisfied with this climactic rendering, the team then disassembled the duo and prepared them for the return trip to D.C.

While the Wankel rex was on sabbatical, the Museum seized the opportunity to revamp the entirety of its century-old fossil hall, hoping to reinvigorate the exhibition with the latest paleontological science in time to coincide with the return of rex. And so began the largest, most extensive renovation in museum history. When the new Koch Hall of Fossils reopens in June 2019, it will reveal a completely refurbished 31,000-square-foot space stocked floor-to-ceiling with dazzling fossils from eras gone by—centered around the Nation’s T. rex as its breathtaking pièce de résistance. Over 700 specimens of animals, plants and insects will accompany the T. rex in showcasing the 3.7 billion years of life thus far on Earth.

“The history of life has always been rich and diverse and complicated as it is today, just without humans,” says Kathy Hollis , the Museum’s national fossil collections manager. “We’re just a blip or a moment in the Earth’s history. We have the consciousness to think about that, and put ourselves in context of history and future.”

Although 80 to 85 percent of this T. rex (at least, by size) was recovered in the excavation, several of the fossils, including the head and most of the ribs, are too fragile for display. Just over half of the bones that are ultimately unveiled to the public will be bona fide dino; carefully reconstructed synthetics will fill in the gaps. For the bones for which there is no true counterpart, Carrano and his team have appended approximations with the utmost accuracy, either drawing from mirror images in the dinosaur’s anatomy or modeling on other T. rex skeletons from separate excavations.

The Wankel rex surfaced at an opportune juncture in the timeline of paleontological technology. With the mostly intact skeleton, scientists eagerly expanded their knowledge of Tyrannosaurus, including the first physical forearm specimen in history. What’s more, we now know the Nation’s T. rex died when it was about 18 years old. Delightfully, the age of a dino tracks like a tree: simply saw through a bone and count its rings. Its cause of death and sex, though, remain mysterious.

However, Carrano believes there is more to come. “Undoubtedly there are still things we’re going to learn from it,” he says.

This is an emotional time for Carrano: the re-opening of the fossil hall is a culmination of his career at the Smithsonian thus far, a project he has invested in since 2002.

“It’s still a little surreal: You spend so much time thinking about it, having meetings, planning for things—there’s so many people involved, and you’re focusing on every tiny detail,” he reflects. “And then you forget to imagine what it’s like when it’s all done. In one way or another, I’ve been thinking about this for over 16 years. It’s like sending a kid off to college.”

In the coming weeks, the Nation’s T. rex will be reassembled in its new home, allowing the rest of the Koch Hall of Fossils to reshape around its centerpiece. When the Hall opens next June, the Wankel rex will finally reveal itself to the public, hopefully bringing with it a resurgence of dino fever at the Smithsonian. But luckily for Hatcher—and the rest of the world—both Triceratops and Tyrannosaurus will remain frozen for the foreseeable future: no one’s getting eaten just yet.

====== 7 ========

IS ALL STILL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT?

One Sunday morning in the 11th Arrondissement of Paris, lured by hydrangeas, roses and pigeons, I strolled past a playground filled with children’s voices. The cool white Parisian sky made me want to sit on a bench and do nothing. Behind the playground a church bell tolled the hour, a crow told time in its own voice and a breeze suddenly hissed through the maples.

It was a hundred years since the First World War had come to an end. Earlier that morning, approaching Paris by taxi, I passed an exit sign for the Marne, reminding me that in one of the many emergencies of that war thousands of soldiers were rushed from Paris by taxi to fight the First Battle of the Marne. Now a couple sat down on the bench next to me and began kissing. Who is to say that what they were doing wasn’t a better use of their time than studying and carefully remembering war? And how then shall I recommend the Great War to you? Let me try: Its hideous set pieces retain their power to balefully dazzle us right through the earthen darkness of a hundred years! Let its symbol be the 198-pound German Minenwerfer, which a Canadian eyewitness described as follows: “At night it has a tail of fire like a rocket. It kills by concussion.”

This essay, my attempt at remembrance, is, like any of our efforts, peculiar, accidental and limited. I should have visited Berlin, London, Vienna, Flanders, the city formerly known as Brest-Litovsk, and the various territories of the warring colonial empires. (For instance, the 295,000 Australians who fought, and the 46,000 who died, will be barely mentioned here.) I would also have liked to see my own country as it was in 1918.

Instead, to see where the conclusive fighting was done, I went to France to find what battle graves I could: the Marne, the Somme, the Meuse-Argonne, Verdun, the St. Quentin Canal. The “fountains of mud and iron,” in Remarque’s phrase, had run dry; what about the hatreds and memories?

* * *

BEGINNINGS, RAPTURES, ROBBERIES

You might think Europe and its 40 million finally dead or wounded were dragged into the muck by a series of insults and bumbling miscommunications, a whole continent at the mercy of foolhardy monarchs and military strategists who, “goaded by their relentless timetables,” as Barbara Tuchman relates in The Guns of August, “were pounding the table for the signal to move lest their opponents gain an hour’s head start.” Not so, according to many participants. “The struggle of the year 1914 was not forced on the masses—no, by the living God—it was desired by the whole people.” Thus the recollection of a young Austrian soldier named Adolf Hitler, who enlisted with a Bavarian infantry regiment as quickly as he could, and served almost to the end. “Overpowered by stormy enthusiasm, I fell down on my knees and thanked Heaven from an overflowing heart for granting me the good fortune of being permitted to live at such a time.” Could the war truly have been desired? That sounds as fatuous as the grinning death’s-head emblem on a German A7V tank. But a German historian who despised the Führer likewise remembered the “exaltation of spirit experienced during the August days of 1914.” For him, the war was one “of defense and self-protection.”

Like Hitler, the aspiring British poet Robert Graves joined the colors almost immediately. He enlisted to delay going to Oxford (“which I dreaded”), because Germany’s defiance of Belgian neutrality incensed him, and because he had a German middle name and German relatives, which caused him to be suspected. Other Britons were as enthusiastic as Hitler. “Anticipation of carnage was delightful to something like ninety percent of the population,” observed Bertrand Russell, the Nobel Prize-winning philosopher. Trotsky, witnessing the jubilation in Vienna, remarked that for “the people whose lives, day in and day out, pass in a monotony of hopelessness,” the “alarm of mobilization breaks into their lives like a promise.”

One might equally well blame diplomatic incompetence, Austro-Hungarian hubris or the partially accidental multiplier effect of a certain assassination in Sarajevo. And then there was Kaiser Wilhelm, with his mercurial insecurities, military fetish and withered arm—to what extent was he the cause? In a photograph taken New Year’s Day, 1913, we see him on parade, beaming in outright exultation and taking clear kindred pleasure in wearing a British admiral’s uniform. (He was, after all, the eldest grandchild of Queen Victoria.) Twelve years after the armistice, the British military theoretician Liddell Hart, who was shelled and gassed as a young infantry officer at the front, made the case against the kaiser bluntly: “By the distrust and alarm which his bellicose utterances and attitude created everywhere he filled Europe with gunpowder.”

The historian John Keegan, in his classic account The First World War, called it “a tragic, unnecessary conflict.” If that fails to satisfy you, let me quote Gary Sheffield, a revisionist: “A tragic conflict, but it was neither futile nor meaningless,” his idea being that liberal democracy in Europe depended on it. Meanwhile, in came the Russian autocracy and Turkish sultanate to complement the empires of Germany and Austria-Hungary; however necessary they thought the war, by entering it they utterly erased themselves.

Some war tourists may be disposed to amble along a more fatalistic line, so here it is: Three years before the slaughter, a certain Gen. Friedrich von Bernhardi explained the birds and the bees in Germany and the Next War: “Without war, inferior or decaying races would easily choke the growth of healthy, budding elements, and a universal decadence would follow.”

Reader, have you ever read more inspiring words to live by?

* * *

THE STATIC

1

A certain influential treatise entitled Weapons and Tactics, published in 1943 by the British military historian and man-of-letters Tom Wintringham and updated 30 years later, divides military history into alternating armored and unarmored periods. The Great War was something in between. Those glorious unarmored days when a sufficiently frenetic cavalry or bayonet charge could break through enemy lines still dazzled the generals. Yet the “defensive power” of machine guns, of barbed wire, and of the spade (for digging) “had ended mobility in war.” Meanwhile, the future belonged to tanks: “a brood of slug-shaped monsters, purring, or roaring and panting, and even emitting flames as they slid or pivoted over the ground.”

Underestimating this armoring trend, German strategists prepared to follow the “Schlieffen Plan,” named for Alfred von Schlieffen, chief of Germany’s Imperial General Staff from 1891 to 1905, who conceived a rapid flank attack around French firepower. It had to be rapid, in order to defeat France and swing round against Russia before the latter completed mobilization. Well, why not?

To strike France according to timetable, one had to set aside the trifling matter of Belgium’s neutrality. But who dreaded their armor, their dog-pulled machine guns? So the Germans put on their knee-high, red-brown leather jackboots and, in the first days of August 1914, marched on Belgium.

The First Battle of the Marne began in early September. At this point the opposing armies still enjoyed some freedom of movement. The tale runs thus: An over-rapid advance (à la Schlieffen) of an already disequilibrated German Army beyond its line of supply was answered by French troops—some of whom, as you already know, were frantically delivered to the front by Parisian cabs—and a strong attack on the German right flank led finally to a so-called “failure of nerve,” which caused the Germans to retreat to the Aisne River. Here they settled into trenches until 1918.

As one Gen. Heinz Guderian put it: “The positions ultimately evolved into wired, dug-in machine-gun nests which were secured by outposts and communication trenches.” Take note of this German, if you would. He was young enough and flexible enough to learn from his defeats. We will meet him again and again.

2

Upon his arrival at the front, Robert Graves’ commander explained that trenches were temporary inconveniences. “Now we work here all the time, not only for safety but for health,” Graves writes. How healthy do you suppose they were, for men sleeping in slime, fighting lice and rats, wearing their boots for a week straight? The parapet of one trench was “built up with ammunition-boxes and corpses.” Others, Graves wrote, “stank with a gas-blood-lyddite-latrine smell.” From an Englishman at Gallipoli: “The flies entered the trenches at night and lined them with a density which was like moving cloth.”

Let the little village of Vauquois, 15 miles from Verdun, represent the trenches. The Germans took it on September 4, 1914. In March of the following year, the French regained the southern half, so the Germans dug in at the hill-crest and in the cemetery. In September 1918 the Americans finally cleared the place. During those three static years, a mere 25 feet separated the battle lines in Vauquois—surely close enough for the adversaries to hear each other.

Ascending a short steep path through thick forest, where strands of ivy ran up verdant trees approaching the white sky with its sprinkle of rain, I found on the summit near an unimpressive monument the ruins of Vauquois’ town hall, which were forbidden to the public by means of red and white striped tape. Twisted rusted relics of agricultural equipment lay on display in a kind of sandbox. Here one could look down over a checkerboard of forest and field to faraway Montfaucon, one of the enemy strongpoints that Gen. John J. Pershing’s “doughboys” would face in the great Meuse-Argonne Offensive of 1918. And just below me lay a great crater in the grass, its depth maybe 100 feet or more, where at one point the Germans had detonated 60 tons of subterranean explosives, killing 108 French infantrymen in an instant.

I descended into no man’s land, passing the hole where the church used to be, then up into the German positions where a steel-faced hole, almost filled in, grinned below the grass. Ahead rose more forest—none of it old-growth, of course, for by 1915 Vauquois and its trees had been improved into mucky craters. The fact that everything was now overgrown I had thought to be a blessing, but taking a step into the greenness I encountered waist-high tangles of barbed wire or dangerous bunker holes whose lips for all I knew might collapse beneath me.

To pulverize positions at so near a distance, a soldier was well served by the so-called trench mortar, which fired its projectile almost straight up, so that it would come down with great force upon one’s neighbors. And just here I found a trench mortar excavated from its concrete-and-steel-lined pit. Like most of the ordnance still remaining on the Western Front, it wore a black finish—the work, said the local historian Sylvestre Bresson, who was my battlefield guide for a part of my travels, of postwar preservationists, for during its working career it would have sported field-gray paint. The thing came up to my navel. Its barrel was more than large enough for me to put both arms in.

I proceeded farther into the German lines, whose lineaments were mostly disguised by dandelions, daisies, goldenrod, nettles and other weeds. The humid coolness was pleasant. How could I even hope to envision the reputed ten miles of burrows on this side? One of the trenches wound conveniently before me, between belly- and chest-high, its concrete softened by moss, and its next turning celebrated by a rusty bracket—maybe the rung of a ladder.

I clambered down into its clamminess. I followed a dandelion-crowned mossy, winding trench whose side tunnels went darkly down. Here gaped a square pit like a chimney with double-braided strands of rusty barbed wire at ankle height in the creepers just beyond. I drew prudently back. A collector might have liked that German barbed wire, which was thicker than the French version. (Bresson told me that French-issued cutters of the period could not break it.) With its long alternating spikes it looked more primitive and more vegetally “organic” than the barbed wire of today. How many French assaulters with twisted and bloody ankles had it held up long enough for the defenders to machine-gun them?

Returning to the path, I found more dark, filthy, stone-faced and metal-faced dugouts. Stooping down to peer into a mucky tunnel, I braced my hands upon a perimeter of sandbags whose canvas had rotted, the concrete remaining in the shape of each bag.

Every known World War I veteran has died; the very notion of “remembering” the war felt problematic. How could I even imagine the hellish noise? What about the smells? A Frenchman left this description: “Shells disinter the bodies, then reinter them, chop them to pieces, play with them as a cat does a mouse.”

3

By the close of 1914, with the war less than half a year old, the Western Front stretched static, thick and deep for 450 miles. The Eastern Front took on a similar if less definitive character, finally hardening between Romania and the Baltic in 1915. In a photo from November 1915 we see a line of German soldiers in greatcoats and flat-topped caps shoveling muck out of a winding narrow trench, grave-deep, somewhere in the Argonne Forest. The surface is nothing but wire, rock, sticks and dirt.

The generals thought to break the stasis using massive concentrations of artillery. Somehow, surely, the enemy positions could be pulverized, allowing charges to succeed? Weapons and Tactics: “Most of the history of the War of 1914-18 is the history of the failure of this idea.”

You see, artillery barrages, to say the least, called attention to themselves. The enemy then thickened its defenses where needed. Furthermore, the shelling tore up no man’s land, so that assault parties, instead of rushing forward, floundered in shell holes, while the enemy shot them down. In one typical outcome, Graves’ comrades “were stopped by machine-gun fire before they had got through our own entanglements.”

However perilous it was to “go over the top,” the defensive positions were themselves hardly safe. Graves writes time and time again about witnessing the deaths of his comrades right there in the earthworks. He feared rifle bullets more than shells, because they “gave no warning.” On the opposite side of the front, Hitler emoted: “In these months I felt for the first time the whole malice of Destiny which kept me at the front in a position where every n------ might accidentally shoot me to bits.”

And so their various armored immobilities stalemated the belligerents. The British were losing as many as 5,000 soldiers a week in what they called “normal wastage.” Unable to go forward, unwilling to retreat, the adversaries tried to speed up normal wastage. That is why, as early as the fall of 1915, the French and British decided on a quota of 200,000 Germans killed or wounded per month.

“Thus it went on year after year; but the romance of battle had been replaced by horror.” That was Hitler again. He, of course, remained “calm and determined.”

4

The German assault at Verdun announced itself on February 21, 1916, with the detonation of more than a thousand cannons. Something like 33 German munitions trains rolled in each day. In a photo of a second-line casualty station, we see a wounded Frenchman sitting crookedly on his crude stretcher, which rests in the dark mud. His boots are black with filth; likewise his coat up to his waist and beyond. A white bandage goes bonnet-like around his head, the top of it dark with blood. His slender, grubby hands are part-folded across his waist. His head is leaning, his eyes almost closed.

In a bunker near Verdun 100 years later I came upon a chamber whose rusty ladder ascended to a cone outlined with light, which silhouetted something like a giant mantis’ desiccated corpse: the under-chassis of a machine gun. Nearby ran another emplacement that Sylvestre Bresson thought must be part of the Maginot Line, thanks to its newer concrete. (I should remind the reader that this latter imposing bulwark was intended, decades later, to use all of World War I’s advantages of entrenched defense against that World War II aggressor, Hitler. For why wouldn’t war haunt this same ground over and over again?)

A Russian offensive against the Austrians in the east, followed by a French attack at the Somme in July, finally forced the Germans to disengage from Verdun. In October the French retook its most massive fort. The battle, the longest of World War I, finally ended on December 15. Then what? Mud, corpses, duckboards, trenches, broken trees. French and German casualties each exceeded 300,000 men.

But why disparage all this mutual effort? If its object was to kill multitudes of human beings, let’s call it a triumph, as evidenced by the French National Necropolis at Fleury-devant-Douaumont. Driving down the hill, we came upon 15,000 white crosses flashing in the sun. I went out to wander those tombstones on the down-slanting grass where crimson-petaled rosebeds ran along each row. Up at the chapel, French soldiers in uniform stood gazing down across the stones, the occasion being a change of commander. “For us this is the most sacred site,” Bresson remarked. “If France could keep only one memorial to World War I, it would be this one.”

These 15,000 dead men were all French, but nearly ten times the amount of remains, both French and German, broken and commingled, lay in the nearby ossuary. Looking in through the many ground-level windows, I saw heaps of bones and skulls in the darkness. Some yellow-brown fragments had been combined into almost decorative columns, as in the Paris catacombs.

In the edifice above them stood a Catholic chapel with stained glass windows, and in a glass case, relics from the churches of destroyed villages. This forest meadow bore stone markers to commemorate the former farm buildings, washhouses, grocery stores. Maples and cypresses had grown 102 years high. I saw dark water in the deeper shell holes, grass in the shallower ones. The grass was ingrown with daisies, dandelions and clover. Birds were singing.

5

As for the First Battle of the Somme—which was, more accurately, a dozen smaller battles, playing out over 141 days in 1916, from July to November—that accomplished kindred wonders. Liddell Hart remembered the year as “the nadir of infantry attacks,” the assaulters being “almost shoulder to shoulder, in a symmetrical, well-dressed alignment, and taught to advance steadily upright at a slow walk.” How convenient for the artillerists!

In 2018, Bresson, who lived in the Somme, enlightened me about the residue: “The bomb disposal squad comes twice a week. Twice a week, even now! You know, if there was some live shell in Paris, it would be on the news. But in the country, nobody cares. The farmers, they just carry it into the road.”

The Battle of the Somme marked the war’s first deployment of tanks (on September 15, by the British), but they were introduced in dribs and drabs, their surprise effect mostly wasted, their potential nearly invisible. On October 7, Hitler, his potential equally unforeseeable, was wounded in the thigh, but he was not out of action long.

The Somme came to be referred to as “the muddy grave of the German field army,” for German casualties were up to 650,000 killed, wounded and missing. But the muddy grave was more international than that. Its local commemorators called it un espace mondial, a world-inclusive space. The British took 420,000 casualties; the battle’s first day has been called “the bloodiest day in British history.” The French lost 200,000 men. Although Gen. Douglas Haig, commander of the British Expeditionary Force, claimed an attritional victory, David Lloyd George, Britain’s soon-to-be prime minister, called it “a bloody and disastrous failure.”

In 1918 this churned-up wasteland, well irrigated with trench-blood and fertilized with flesh, would be viciously contested all over again.

6

You may recall that 1916 was the year when the Russians broke through the Austrian defenses on the Eastern Front, causing the Germans to halt their assault on Verdun. But the Russians could only get so far. The czar’s army had already lost half its strength in the previous year, and the new assault cost them more than a million casualties. According to Liddell Hart, this latest blood bath “completed the virtual ruin of Russia’s military power.” In July 1917, the Russian Army shot its last bolt.

That previous winter, bled weak by Verdun and the Somme, the Germans prepared a strategic withdrawal from a 20-mile salient between Arras and Soissons in northern France. A salient is in essence a bulge into enemy lines—a reified hope of breakthrough. Abandoning one may be a sad business, but also prudent, because any such position is vulnerable on two or three sides.

Hence Operation Alberich, whose first step would be the construction of the best-fortified redoubt in Europe: the Siegfried Line, or, as the British called it, the Hindenburg Line, Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg being the new German commander in chief: grizzled, calm, soldierly-looking, maybe even statesmanlike. (In 1933, the same Hindenburg, now a grandly senile old figurehead—and president of the young, doomed Weimar Republic—would appoint Hitler as chancellor.)

Hindenburg’s First Quartermaster, and in many ways the guiding partner, was Gen. Erich von Ludendorff, humorless and irascible, who five years after the war would march beside Hitler in the sordid “Beer Hall Putsch.” (Hitler later proclaimed Ludendorff “leader, and chief with dictatorial power, of the German national army.”) Since it is to Ludendorff that accounts of this period generally assign agency, I shall do the same.

The Hindenburg Line has been called “the war’s greatest feat of engineering.” Its various belts, which bore such mythological names as “Kriemhild” and “Freya,” ran for 300 miles. Half a million laborers toiled for four months to make them, dispersing the cargoes of 1,250 trains. The line began with an antitank ditch, followed by “at least” five walls of barbed wire; “next came a line of defense anchored by forts and blockhouses bristling with machine guns, and the final major barrier boasted an intricate system of zigzag trenches designed to prevent enfilading fire”—and this ominous description, courtesy of The Oxford Companion to Military History, leaves out the St. Quentin Canal, a waterway that was up to 35 feet wide and 50 to 60 feet deep. Two artillery lines brooded in the rear.

The withdrawal took place in February 1917. The Germans left behind them what one officer called “a desolate, dead desert,” Ludendorff having determined to make it into “a totally barren land” in which Allied “maneuverability was to be critically impaired.” First they removed anything they could use. Then they razed every building, mined every street, poisoned every well, dammed every creek, burned everything that would burn. The vileness of this policy remains a matter of opinion. Bresson assured me: “You know, we did the same thing when we left Gallipoli, in 1915.” Hart described the withdrawal as “a consummate maneuver, if unnecessarily brutal in application.” But he was one of those ­realists who did not consider chlorine gas especially cruel.

And so the front was not merely frozen, but steel-frozen. Thus it went through most of 1917, the year when President Woodrow Wilson proposed, and the kaiser rejected, “peace without victory.”

* * *

UNLOCKING THE FRONT

1

What finally destroyed the long primacy of immobile armored defense? First of all, a British naval blockade, which had been in effect since before the first battle of 1914, began to starve the two adjacent Central Powers of essential materials like rubber and brass. By 1916 the starvation was becoming literal. In a German photo from the late war years we see kerchiefed, long-skirted women bending over a rubbish heap, pickaxing its filth in search of anything nourishing to go in a grimy bucket. The protagonists of the German veteran Remarque’s All Quiet on the Western Front, weakening on their “turnip jam,” count themselves lucky whenever they can snatch up butter and corned beef from the French positions they’ve assaulted.

Attack technologies now also began to render machine-gun nests and barbed-wired trenches, if not yet obsolete, at least penetrable. Planes had barely begun to prove themselves, but the prospect of a pack of high-flying bombing and strafing machines took on nerve-racking plausibility.

Tanks, after their first faltering foray at the Somme, had been improved. One innovator recognized that the fuel tanks should be less vulnerable to direct hits. The British and French commenced mass production. Still, Germany deployed no tanks of its own manufacture until the war’s last year, by which time its enemies possessed 5,000; it had just 45.

Here is how the German officer Guderian remembered the First Battle of Cambrai, from 1917: “In a few hours the strongest position on the Western Front had been broken,” he lamented. “The bells rang out in London for the first time in the war.”

One of the British monsters that so obsessed Guderian was named “Deborah,” designated female because “she” sported machine guns instead of six-pounders. I have seen her all alone at the Cambrai Tank 1917 Museum. The poor girl had been buried in muck until 1998. Her rounded-tipped quadrilateral shape challenges description: sort of like a riveted roach or crocodile, but not exactly.

The museum staff had tastefully enclosed her snout in genuine Great War barbed wire. Her bow and starboard side gaped jaggedly open, offering darkness and the smell of oil; her guts were partly shattered and twisted by the German fire that killed four of her crewmen, who lay in the adjacent cemetery. But in her port flank two service-holes remained, one rectangular, the other perfectly round, so that the gray light of that concrete room shone right through her. Her ripped, rusted yet surprisingly durable carapace made the horror of the war itself more durable. At her backside lay two wreaths.

Immediately adjacent to her public sepulcher I found the Flesquières Hill British Cemetery, whose ground had been captured in the Cambrai battle, lost soon after, then retaken in September 1918, at which point it came in handy for new deposits. After looking out from the stone pavilion across the green lawn to the great cross and past two lovely trees toward cloud-shaded fields with wind turbines on the horizon, I opened the heavy door that protected the visitors’ book. One inscription read: To those who gave their lives, and those who keep their memories so well. Another: Thank you all boys RIP. Four days before me, someone had come to visit his fallen grandfather. The most recent inscription was in French: We will never forget you.

The registry book told another story. This place once lay behind the German Flesquières Soldiers’ Cemetery No. 2. After the armistice, the German graves were moved to a “cemetery extension” (which would itself be relocated in 1924). In their place British plots were erected. Such disrespect must have increased the vanquished’s hatred for the victors, but that was hardly the fault of 28259 PRIVATE JOHN DAVEY CARTER ROYAL LANCASTER REGIMENT 8TH OCTOBER 1918 AGE 27, ON WHOSE SOUL SWEET JESUS HAVE MERCY. I copied these words from his tombstone. Then I stood and took in the red roses, black-eyed Susans and purple flowers.

2

In the judgment of All Quiet on the Western Front, “The summer of 1918 is the most bloody and the most terrible.” Not knowing the outcome as we do, Germany tried to see the sunny side of the barbed wire. “The whole army took fresh hope and fresh courage after the Russian collapse,” Hitler remembered. For after Russia’s soldiers declined to continue prosecuting the war, the weak-willed czar abdicated, and the newly empowered Bolsheviks sued for peace, which the Germans granted at a stringent price in resources and territory. (Thus the infamous Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.)

And so the kaiser could credit himself with the first great conquest of that War to End All Wars. “Out of the wreckage of the czar’s dominions,” as Gary Sheffield wrote in his history Forgotten Victory, grew “a network of client states and spheres of influences that added up to a new German colonial empire with enormous economic potential.”

Now, wasn’t that something worth invading Belgium for? With Russia imploding into civil war, Ludendorff and Hindenburg could now transfer multitudes of German troops to the Western Front, build new assault groups, strike the French and British at just the right spot, and at long last smash through the stasis of 1914-17.

As always, haste would be called for. The operation depended on quick success—before General Pershing got his American troops trained and mobilized.

3

The United States, goaded into it by the repeated sea-murder (so we not unreasonably saw it) of our own nationals by U-boats, had declared war on Germany in 1917. American soldiers entered the trenches that October, but didn’t begin leading large-scale operations until 1918, the year when the actors Lawrence Grant starred in “To Hell With the Kaiser!” and Norman Kaiser changed his name to Norman Kerry. Meanwhile, thanks to Operation Alberich, the Germans had had a year to recuperate their energies and thicken the Hindenburg Line. Secure in defense, they prepared to strike.

On March 21, 1918, only 18 days after Brest-Litovsk, the Germans began a new campaign, code-named “Michael,” whose artillery barrage could be heard even in England. A German soldier called the noise “incessant and almost musical,” while a British rifleman thought it sounded like “sheer hell.”

Since massed attacks pre-announced by artillery barrages had accomplished so little throughout the war, Ludendorff essayed what had worked so well for T.E. Lawrence against the Turks: infiltration, seeking points of least resistance. The idea was to break the British Army, and thus Allied morale, and so bring about an end to the war.

Concentrating their forces secretly by night, then advancing through fog and their own fresh-laid poison gas in small groups of storm troopers over 60 miles of front, the Germans achieved full surprise. A desirable punch-through point was the town of Arras, birthplace of the French Revolution’s ruthlessly “incorruptible” Robespierre, who in obedience to some form of golden rule was himself finally guillotined.

The train from Amiens droned past an emerald field of white cows, which gave way to rippled ponds, gray clouds, mown grass, white churches, trees. Here came the town of Albert, with a golden figure on its high brickwork tower; then our tracks entered a cut between the trees, came out again, and we glided through that kind of landscape that cliché-mongers call idyllic.

Disembarking in Arras, I found myself in a cobbled square, walled in by four-story buildings, facing the ornate sweep of the town hall and the pale-yellow Hôtel de Ville, then a clock tower whose hands and Roman numerals were gold, and finally the famous belfry. Outside the Hôtel a monument memorialized Germany’s victims of 1940 and 1944, in this case Resistance fighters; on the square itself two plaques dryly explained that the original belfry dated from 1463 to 1914 and the Hôtel de Ville from 1502 to 1914.

“Michael” quickly gained a miraculous 37-odd miles, so that it began to seem that the stasis was broken at last. Guderian called the feat “the greatest success achieved on the Western Front since trench warfare had begun.” On March 23 the invaders set up shop in the Laon Salient, close upon Crépy, and began bombarding Paris. The artillerists fired payloads of 200 to 230 pounds every 20 minutes for 139 days. They killed a thousand people and more. Smelling total victory, the kaiser declared a holiday.

4

Yet failing to reduce Arras on the 26th and again on the 28th, Ludendorff was compelled to release his straining grasp on the city. The date was March 30, two days after go-it-alone “Black Jack” Pershing had finally agreed to shore up the front with American troops.

On April 4, Ludendorff called on fresh reserves to resume the advance, this time turning toward Amiens, “the hinge of the Allies’ front,” where Jules Verne used to write his 19th-century science-fiction novels. The Germans had occupied this town for 11 days in August-September 1914, and with their customary humanitarianism took local officials hostage. At some point before or after, the locals fortified their cathedral’s ancient treasures with 2,200 sandbags. As for other prizes, Robert Graves remembers a “Blue Lamp” brothel for officers and a “Red Lamp” for enlisted men.

In this centennial year 2018, massive photo-enlargements of Great War soldiers, some in the beekeeper-esque gas masks of the period, most of them young, grim and handsome, stared down from the walls of the train station and the department stores and apartment buildings all around the cathedral square.

The first attempt to take Amiens began on March 27. (The reader is reminded that the dates of battles, offensives, et cetera vary extremely according to source. I have done my shallow best to rationalize these inconsistencies.) Ludendorff’s troops penetrated the Allied front southward of the Somme River, ten miles from the city. The Germans were driven back, but continued to shell Amiens until June. According to a Michelin Guide from that time, “ruins accumulated in the town and suburbs,” but a hundred years later, those ruins had been nicely smoothed over.

On April 9 the Germans won another local success at Armentières—at which point the French and British, as ever, began to dig in. General Haig was worried enough to warn, with uncharacteristic gloom, “With our backs to the wall and believing in the justice of our cause each one of us must fight on to the end.”

Finally the anxious Allies began to coordinate their efforts better, and appointed the French Marshal Ferdinand Foch Supreme Allied Commander over their joint forces.

5

By now the Kaiser’s troops had reached the town of Villers-Bretonneux, a “Franco-British junction” some ten miles from Amiens. Two Australian brigades stopped them, but 20 days later, employing tanks and gas, the Germans succeeded. As Sylvestre Bresson, my guide, tells the tale, “The Allies now found themselves in trouble, for Villers-Bretonneux was the last defensive bulwark on the Amiens road. The following night, the Australian battalions led a magnificent headlong attack,” which ultimately repelled the invaders. In a “2018 special edition” commemorative pamphlet published by the Communes of the Somme Valley, this organization’s president wrote: “Let’s never forget Australia.”

The memorial to the victors (1,200 of whom died on that night) lies not far from a little roadside sign marking the place where the “Red Baron” Manfred von Richthofen, Germany’s ace fighter pilot, was shot dead on April 21, 1918. Beneath the sign I saw a styrofoam “100” and some fake flowers left by Australians; this I knew because my taxi driver, whose family hailed from the west, had chauffeured them out here just a few days before. He had never heard of this site until then. He had grandparents in the Resistance, in the Second World War, but as for the First World War, that was too long a time ago, he remarked, flashing one tanned skinny arm away from the steering wheel.

“People around here don’t even talk about it very much,” he said of the Great War. He thought that I and my sister, who had accompanied me on this trip and served, when needed, as my French translator, were Australians. “Every family from Australia has some question about the war,” he remarked.

At the Villers-Bretonneux Military Cemetery and Memorial roses bloomed on a rolling hill-crest sowed with tombstones. The inscriptions were more personalized than many, DEARLY LOVED SON being in frequent evidence. This complex was inaugurated in 1938, just in time to be shot up in the next war—or, as a plaque explained, “on the firing line.” (The culprit was a Nazi tank.) There was a grand tower erected TO THE GLORY OF GOD AND IN MEMORY OF THE AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE IN FRANCE AND FLANDERS 1916-1918 AND OF ELEVEN THOUSAND WHO FELL IN FRANCE AND HAVE NO KNOWN GRAVE.

Had they all been properly cataloged, would it have been any better for them? For a fact, their survivors might have gained what we now call “closure,” although one question does arise: How much information about the fallen is too much?

“I do a lot of research for the families when they come,” Bresson told me. “Sometimes the stories told in the families are different from the truth, thanks to embellishment, exaggeration, and after one, two or three generations especially. But the archives tell the truth.

“A couple of years ago I had a tour with a couple from Australia. They wanted to visit the grave of a great-uncle. Before they came they gave us the name and I was able to find a lot of information about the great-uncle. But he wasn’t killed in action. He was killed in a stupid accident. He was at rest with his regiment and he was shooting ducks with one of his friends and his friend shot him by accident. It was literally written killed shooting ducks by accident.

“So on the day of the tour I met them and the story they knew was: He was killed on the battlefield, killed by German snipers when crawling under the barbed wire. Well, they were very moved to come. We went to the cemetery and left flowers there, and I told them they could get more information. I did not tell them directly. They were coming from the other side of the world.”

In one of ever so many rows in that cemetery, beneath the emblem of the Australian Imperial Forces, lay 6733 PRIVATE H. J. GIBB 14TH BN. AUSTRALIAN INF. 7TH JUNE 1918 AGE 45, and after a cross came the motto that someone had chosen for him: PEACE AFTER STRIFE. Whatever the circumstances of that untimely death, whether he had bravely held a position, saved a comrade, bayoneted three Germans or died while shooting ducks, untimely it was, and I felt sorry.

6

The Germans, having been frustrated at Amiens (but never mind: they would break through on a June day in 1940), swung toward Paris, eventually coming within 37 miles of the city. They had drilled a deep salient into French and British lines, but it wasn’t enough. The historian Gordon Craig writes that the German offensive “was bound to be disastrous after the enemy had recovered,” and that indeed it “degenerated by June into a series of separate thrusts, uncoordinated and unproductive.”

Declining to give up, Ludendorff’s troops commenced Operation Blücher, assisted by almost 4,000 Krupp guns, shelling and shattering the French Sixth Army. Unfortunately for the Germans, their newest enemy was now in the field. The day after Blücher began, the Americans counterattacked. The U.S. First Infantry captured 200 Germans and buried 199 Americans, and immediately won a victory in the village of Cantigny.

At observation post “Pennsylvania,” First Lt. Daniel Sargent of the 5th Field Artillery Regiment reported, “The ground was pounded to dust by our shells—all that was visible was the heavy smoke.” The division’s commander, Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, called this “the first serious fight made by American troops in France,” which was “greeted enthusiastically as a wonderful success.” Why not? There were lots of corpses. As a certain Captain Austin wrote home: “When the wind is right you can smell Cantigny two miles away.”

7

For Ludendorff this “wonderful success” must have been an incitement to hurry up. On the first day of Blücher his troops gained 13 miles, unheard of in the former static years. Having crossed the Vesle, they took Soissons—although they now kept facing more tank attacks. “Just think a moment!” cried Guderian, wisening up. “Five tanks with crews amounting to ten men had been able to reduce an entire division to disorder.”

By June 4, with 30 miles now to their credit, they had reached the Marne at Château-Thierry. What must they have felt upon finding themselves back where they had been in 1914? But that was the way of the Great War: Fight and die along static lines. Then do it all over. Thus July’s offering: the Second Battle of the Marne. The Oxford Companion to Military History remarks: “Just as the Marne had proved the high water mark of German success in 1914, so it did in 1918.”

Happily unaware of how their offensive would play out, the Germans still imagined themselves on course for the capital. To and fro in the trenches rushed that busy dispatch runner Adolf Hitler. But now the French rushed up tanks, accompanied by rapid mobile truckloads of infantry. As the American Battle Monuments Commission told it: “Responding to urgent pleas from the French, Pershing ordered the American 2nd and 3rd Divisions into the line in relief of the French Sixth Army.”

8

“Nothing on earth,” wrote infantryman Percy Clare of Britain’s 7th East Surrey Regiment, “is as melancholy as a journey over a recently-fought battlefield, especially on the day of action....The lust of killing has burned out...Here is a young Second Lieutenant on his back....the jagged ends of his thigh bones protruding through his torn breeches. No, he felt no pain. Sticking from his pocket is a letter to a woman.” That diary entry dates back to the Battle of Arras, in April 1917. Comparable horrors filled Château-Thierry 13 months later.

A century after that, the melancholy kept everywhere green. Here at the bank of the gentle gray-green Marne, where white swans were floating and very occasionally ducking in their heads, I looked across the water to houses, apartments and industrial edifices, once more hardly able to feel that the war had come here. The river was barely swirling. It appeared an easy swim to the other side of town.

Beside me stood an inconspicuous waist-high granite marker erected in 1921: a tapering plinth with a helmet on top. One of many fashioned by the sculptor Paul Moreau-Vauthier, it marked the limit of the enemy advance. There had been a whole line of these memory stones. In 1940, when the Germans returned thanks to Hitler, certain German commanders chose to remove them entirely. Others, evidently proud of what the kaiser’s troops had accomplished in the Great War, left them but erased the inscriptions.

When I came upon the Château-Thierry American monument, a white stone colonnaded edifice honoring the American divisions that helped repel the German advance, it felt just like coming home, for here alone of all the Western Front sites I visited the entrant had to empty his pockets and pass through a metal detector. As they say, freedom isn’t free.

Myself, I preferred the simpler, sadder truth of the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery. Summer green, summer clouds, so many birds. Driving up a long avenue lined with rosebushes, we met a blue-capped gardener who was breaking out a lawn mower. From the burial registry in the Visitors’ Room, I chose for remembrance Plot A Row 3 Grave 72, the grave where lay Edmond P Maes, Private, from Massachusetts. He served in the 101st Field Artillery Regiment, 26th Division, and fell on 23 July 1918.

Lines of marble crosses curved in parallels on the rich green grass, wrapping around a hill of dark green forest. The pigeons were calling, the lawn mower droning far away. Overlooking the graves was a chapel (slightly scarred by the following world war) whose walls were engraved with the names of the missing. Once in a great while there would be a rosette made to the left of the name of someone who was “found,” such as LUPO FRANCIS PVT 18th INF 1st DIV July 21 1918 Ohio.

In a poem from the month when the slaughter finally stopped, the decorated British soldier Siegfried Sassoon advised his British readers, “when you are standing at your hero’s grave,” to remember “the German soldiers who were loyal and brave.” I asked to see a cemetery of our former enemies. “The German cemeteries are different,” explained Bresson. “There was a strong animosity toward them, so in that time the German cemeteries were always set away, on a back road, whereas our cemeteries were set on the top of the hill so they can be seen from miles away. From the German perspective the First and Second World Wars are so linked, like one war. The Germans still feel ashamed of what they did to the Jews, so they don’t have any motivation to visit their soldiers.”

Indeed the nearby German cemetery was discrete, out of sight from the victors’ graves, and instead of white, the crosses, thicker-armed than ours, were gray (in some cemeteries they were black). I saw a very few oval-tipped slabs with the Jewish star, as for Fritz Stern, grenadier. (As a special reward for their service in the Great War, the Nazis would deport some Jewish veterans in passenger train carriages rather than freight cars, their destination of course being the same as for the others.)

Not far away stood a cross for Unteroffizier Peter Latour and Infanterist Ulrich Lederer and on the other side Ein unbekannter Deutscher Soldat (an unknown German soldier) and for Vizefeldwebel Franz Stiefvater—yes, four men buried under one cross. In this soil lay 8,630 bodies. In the sprawling American cemetery adjacent there were not quite 2,300.

Leafing through the visitors’ book, my sister discovered that an American with a military affiliation (I will not give his name) had made a fingerprint in what appeared to be real blood, and left a sneering English-language inscription.

9

A German attack of July 14 was hopefully named the Sieggesturm, or “Turn of Victory,” but Ludendorff was fresh out of victories. The next day he launched his final offensive, aiming at Reims. Three days after that, Generals Foch and Pétain counterattacked on the Marne, close by Villers-Cotterêts—by surprise, with tanks again, and to good effect.

July 18 marked the beginning of Marshal Foch’s counteroffensive. “Although the Germans fought stubbornly to the end, they were henceforth always on the defensive,” recalled Lt. John Clark, an American eyewitness to the battle for Soissons.

On August 8 came what Ludendorff would call “the black day of the German Army,” when he realized “the war must be ended.” By then a British tank brigade had helped reduce the German-held stronghold of Moreuil. One British major took a spin “in one of those huge armoured cars, and found it most disagreeably hot; but I felt a sense of delightful security when I heard the bullets rattling against the steel walls.”

Now began the Battle of Amiens: Australians, Canadians, French and British all fighting together. General Haig commenced with a tank attack 20 miles wide and 456 (or if you like 552) metal monsters thick; he achieved utter surprise. German casualties may have been three times the Allied ones. In his memoirs, Guderian wrote: “Even now old-timers like us relive that feeling of impending doom which overtook us on that day in August.”

On August 21 the British drove toward Bapaume and Albert, reducing both; on September 1 Péronne fell to the Australians. How would all this captured territory have appeared in early autumn 1918? “Deserted,” recalled Capt. C.N. Littleboy, a British commander of the Sherwood Foresters. “Bleak, devastated.” Continuing eastward, Littleboy saw “a derelict Tank, a dead horse, a rifle stuck upright in the ground.”

In 2018, driving over this same sad old Somme country, I thought the rolling hills and sky could almost have been somewhere in eastern Washington State, maybe around Pullman. We ascended what appeared to be the curvature of the earth itself, everything gently, evenly falling off; here came Morlancourt; we kept on Highway D42; then ahead stood three trees, to guard the edge of the world.

10

The shelling of Paris finally ended on August 9.

On September 14, after continued Allied gains, the Austrians sent a peace note. Five days later, the Turkish front collapsed in Palestine. On the 21st, the Croatians hung out their flag. On the 24th, the Hungarians rose up and called for independence from Austria. On the 28th, Bulgaria fell. A day after that, Ludendorff had a “fit”—perhaps a minor stroke.

Now at last Marshal Foch called for a coordinated series of assaults upon the creaking Hindenburg Line: on September 26 in the Meuse-Argonne Forest, the Americans with 411 tanks and the French with 654; on the 27th, the British, launching the Second Battle of Cambrai (they would take their objective on the 9th); on the 28th, the Belgians in Flanders, on the 29th, more French and British attacks.

The Meuse-Argonne Offensive, fought by Pershing’s First Army under Foch’s overall coordination, was intended to breach the Hindenburg Line westward of Verdun. One history calls it “the biggest logistical undertaking in the history of the U.S. Army, before or since.”

Six French divisions assisted 22 American infantry divisions, most of which had not yet proven themselves in battle. (By the end, more than 90 Allied divisions participated in the fight.) “The Germans,” the previous source continues, “had created four successive, mutually supporting defensive lines, linked by trenches and interlocking arcs of fire.”

The attack began at 5:30 in the morning on September 26. Its logical result was the Meuse-Argonne American Cemetery, the most populated American necropolis in Europe, with 14,246 burials. Which should I single out? In one row of marbled crosses on a field walled in by trees, accompanied by another field of crosses and then more of the same, HERE RESTS IN HONORED GLORY AN AMERICAN SOLDIER KNOWN BUT TO GOD—though never to his hoping, wondering, finally despairing family, who when I read this inscription in 2018 must have all gone underground themselves.

The U.S. 35th Division managed to take that ghastly old concretion of trench-line stasis, Vauquois, bombarding, machine-gunning and gassing the Germans while overrunning them from behind, and even continuing another 1.5 miles north-northwest, toward Varennes and Cheppy. Yes, they broke that horror and hurried on.

But now, when from a prominence of fossilized sandbags at Vauquois I gaze down into a steep narrow dugout connected to a tunnel, a beech tree outgrasping from the top and a cloud of midges expanding above my head, it seems the nightmare remains. In the grass around me, crowded by trees with singing birds, in dugouts with their side tunnels going who knows where, how much human craft, cunningly, maliciously employed to maim and murder still lies ready to harm? Yet I feel grateful that this is so. Here is one of the Great War’s most accurate monuments.

At Cheppy, where there is now a Missouri Memorial, the 35th Division, assisted by Col. George S. Patton’s 304th Tank Brigade (Patton was wounded here), smashed through the Hindenburg Line. Varennes, where in 1791 Louis XVI and his family were captured in their coach, fell to the Americans by about 2 p.m., with the help of infantry, Renault tanks and the 28th National Guard Division, known as the Pennsylvanians.

Hence the Pennsylvania Monument, a courtyardlike structure of white stone and concrete with a dark bell on an eagle-cornered plinth. Its motto runs: THE RIGHT IS MORE PRECIOUS THAN PEACE. It’s a very pretty monument. Had I fought in the 28th, or wished to show appreciation for its men, I would doubtless be pleased. As it is, my preference on war memorials is this: Give me an honest graveyard anytime. Or give me that foul, barbed-wire-toothed hole in the ground, Vauquois. I don’t want any sentiments.

11

At the beginning of the war, taking and holding territory up to the Meuse River involved “the toughest fighting” faced by Germany’s northern armies. Now defending that ground against the advancing Allies, Ludendorff tried to return the favor. On September 27-28 he reinforced the sector with artillery and 20 new divisions. (Meanwhile he and Hindenburg informed the kaiser that it was most definitely time for an armistice.)

In 2018 a car carried me smoothly across the Meuse, which from the bridge appeared as flat and reflective as a pond. Time, work and capital had smoothed out this place—twice. Doubtless there were relics to find not far off the road. American losses here had been horrendous, inciting brutal adaptations. For example, it cost “several thousand casualties” for one division to reduce Côte Dame Marie, “a central strongpoint of the Kriemhilde Stellung.” And so we read of “squirrel squads” a hundred yards behind the first wave, to shoot snipers in the trees; of soldiers who bayoneted each German corpse to make sure it wasn’t faking death.

The historian Edward Lengel describes what happened when a certain Major General Morton sent the 116th Regiment against “the worst death trap east of the Meuse,” meeting German machine guns, artillery and the new Fokker strafing planes: The heavy casualties “seemed to indicate that a change of tactics was in order, but Morton could think of only three solutions—more artillery, more men, and greater drive.”

Pershing, his drive temporarily stalled, resumed the attack on October 4, fighting “hard.” On October 29, the enemy withdrew finally to the west bank of the Meuse—yet another victory for all time. (Hitler’s troops would return exactly there in 1940.)

All told, 1.2 million American soldiers suffered 122,000 casualties from the beginning of the offensive to the armistice. For me, at least, this detail casts a certain chill on the following sententious words from a book about the offensive: “Midwestern farm boys had become men. Men had become soldiers. And soldiers had become comrades.” Well, they were all comrades here, for a fact. Had their war actually ended all wars, their deaths would have felt less futile to me.

But let’s be cheerful: Back when the War would surely end all wars, the Allies broke through at Salonika, finally defeating the Bulgarians, and the Italians penetrated the Austrian lines.

On October 26, Ludendorff, who wished to fight on, discovered that his resignation had been accepted. On October 30 the kaiser, laying the groundwork for a narrative about a leftist-Jewish plot, said: “I would not dream of abandoning the throne because of a few hundred Jews and a thousand workers.” He now got an even nastier shock than Ludendorff, being forced to flee that crude, cramped old wooden crown with its ribs like the remnant of a dissected onion and the squat cross on top. He lived in the Netherlands until his death in 1941—just long enough to enjoy a German honor guard posted outside his moated residence.

12

On November 1, the Germans fell back to their final position on the Hindenburg Line. On November 6, the Allies finally reduced Sedan, and sometime that month the Americans liberated Verdun!

And so finally came the armistice: November 11, 1918.

The event certainly deserves a celebratory citation. Here it is, courtesy of Cpl. Harold Pierce, 28th Division, Second Army: “It seems so foolish to keep up the killing till the last minute. But the killing the artillery does is so impersonal and miles away. He [sic] cannot see the tortured, horrible looks of the slaughtered or feel the remorse the doughboy feels when he sees a man he has shot.”

* * *

THE HARVEST

1

What brought about the happy victory? Shall we be reductionist? We could thank General Haig for attrition, or say “hurrah” to the Americans, or praise Marshal Foch’s unifying command, or speak of technical developments, organizational learning, accidents. We all center the world around our own preoccupations. Lawrence of Arabia for his part asserted that “when Damascus fell, the Eastern War—probably the whole war—drew to an end.” My own taste is drawn to Weapons and Tactics’ particular simplification: “In 1918 tanks won a great war.”

What then did the Great War accomplish? At least 8.5 million belligerents died, not to mention a mere 12 million or 13 million civilians. Some optimist somewhere must have pointed out that it kept the population down. The survivors had their own difficulties. In the words of All Quiet on the Western Front, “The war has ruined us for everything.”

Am I too cynical about this war? In October 1918, a Croatian insurrectionist cried out: “The people rise in order to deliver freedom with their blood and over the whole world Wilson’s principles enjoy victory.” An independent Czechoslovakia came into being that same month; soon after, a free Poland. But in these nations, and likewise in the “new Romania swollen with ex-Hungarian territory,” one-third of the people were deemed ethnically “other.” (One result: continuing hatreds and atrocities.)

A hundred years later, Croatia had flickered through bygone Yugoslavia; Czechoslovakia had split; Poland, Hungary and Romania had gone in and out of bondage, altered shape and begun to swell with right-wing nationalisms. I see no guarantee of stability in their respective futures; in their pasts I cannot avoid seeing the Great War’s heirs, Hitler and Stalin.

2

The victors did everything possible to prevent German rearmament. They did not stop there. Churchill, acknowledging that “the mortal need was Security at all costs and by all methods,” still called certain terms of the Treaty of Versailles “malignant and silly....Nothing was reaped except ill-will.”

It is human nature to demand vengeance for the killings of one’s own, and the provocations of Germany’s ruthlessness approached intolerability. The British diplomat Harold Nicholson reminds us that shortly after commencing peace negotiations with President Wilson, the Germans torpedoed the Irish mail boat Leinster, drowning more than 450 civilians. “This eleventh hour atrocity was fresh in people’s minds,” writes Nicholson. A month after the armistice, prominent British newspapers were calling for the kaiser’s execution. Yet whatever its causes and excuses, the Treaty of Versailles, signed in 1919, was not diplomacy’s finest hour. “The historian, with every justification, will come to the conclusion that we were very stupid men,” Nicholson remarks. “I think we were.”

Possibly worst of all was the treaty’s infamous Article 231, the so-called War Guilt Clause, which made Germany accept all the blame. As late as 2001, Gary Sheffield insisted, “The German leadership wanted hegemony in Europe, and was prepared to go to war to achieve it.” And so the War Guilt Clause “was, therefore, fundamentally correct.” Whether or not that was so (what about Austria-Hungary?), it was certainly impolitic. For his part, Hitler in his speeches hammered away at the treaty and the traitorous Germans who had agreed to it. “You felt like dashing your head against the wall in despair over such people! They did not want to understand that Versailles was a shame and a disgrace.” (Well, he sure straightened them out.)

Guderian, plausibly believing the Treaty of Versailles as being “conceived in a spirit of hate,” was one of those who illicitly defied it. Lacking the opportunity to peer inside a tank before 1928, he made do with ersatz, drilling for the next war with tractors. “With this machine we essayed our tank company tactics,” he wrote in his magnum opus, Achtung-Panzer!

He was on the spot in May 1940, urging Hitler to rush armored tank divisions back across the Meuse ahead of infantry and artillery. Over ground that had so recently sucked down the blood of General Pershing’s soldiers drove the new “lightning war”—the Blitzkrieg. As in Schlieffen’s day, the watchword was haste. There was so much to do: liquidate hostages and Jews in Poland, prepare to invade England, then turn against the gullible Russian ally.

The First World War would be done over. The French were stunned. The Parisian filmmaker Ludovic Cantais, who had three great-uncles die in the First World War and a grandfather who lost an eye fighting it but gained a lifelong alcohol problem, told me: “The Second World War, it was not even like a war for the French—it was so quick.” What he said next was particularly thought-provoking, because I had read so much about the allegedly self-deluded “appeasement” of Hitler by the Western democracies in 1938-39. Hindsight’s prophets loved to point out that resisting Hitler early could have saved lives and treasure.

Cantais said, “The First World War traumatized people so much. That was why they absolutely did not want to go to fight Hitler; they were so traumatized. The generation of 1914 was decimated, so they did not want to go. The conditions in the trenches were really sordid. There were rats, disease, fear. These young men, who had just started their own families, they came back crazy because of these crazy conditions they had lived in.”

On June 22, 1940, Hitler, having taken France in six weeks behind Guderian’s Panzer tank divisions and strafing aircraft, forced the French to sign a humiliating armistice in Marshal Foch’s old railroad carriage, the very same one in which the armistice of 1918 had been signed, right there in the bucolic Compiègne Forest.

It may well be that no war is ever over. My French interviewees expressed horror when I asked when the next war with Germany might occur. But our species’ abominable record suggests that sometime in the next 800 or even 200 years (if human beings persist on this earth so long) there will be another one, at which time the iron ghosts of the trenches will come shrieking back.

====== 8 ========

HOW A CHANGING CLIMATE MAY HAVE KILLED OFF THE MARSUPIAL LION

Deep in the Australian Outback, the locals will tell you, a legendary beast roams the bush, preying on the unprepared and the unawares. This mythical creature, the drop bear, is a ravenous variant of the koala that has developed a taste for flesh rather than leaves. And while the drop bear itself doesn’t exist, it does have a real-life counterpart in a predatory marsupial of the past.

Over 46,000 years ago, Australia was home to Thylacoleo, a distant cousin of wombats, kangaroos and other marsupials. But unique among this subclass of mammals, Thylacoleo preyed on other animals for its food, and so paleontologists know the ancient creature as the “marsupial lion.”

But why doesn’t this impressive carnivore still prowl the Australian wilds? A new analysis of the predator’s teeth, carried out by Vanderbilt University paleontologist Larisa DeSantis and presented at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology annual meeting last month, offers some new clues.

“The initial aim of this study was to figure out the paleobiology of this animal,” DeSantis says. Despite being known to scientists since 1859 and having various studies of its anatomy carried out, relatively little is known about how this predator hunted, ate its prey and otherwise interacted with its surrounding environment. It turns out, the marsupial lion’s teeth were key to solving some of these mysteries.

The cheek teeth of Thylacoleo are very distinctive. They are more square than triangular, having the appearance of meat cleavers that slid past each other to shear through flesh. Pits and scratches on the teeth, called microwear, are tied to different foods and feeding behaviors that can help narrow down the animal's diet. DeSantis also looked at stable isotope signatures—a version of “you are what you eat,” DeSantis says, in which chemical signatures from particular food sources get taken up and preserved in tissues like teeth and bone.

It turns out that Thylacoleo lived up to its name. The microwear on the analyzed fossil teeth showed damage patterns most similar to modern-day lions. Translating this to diet, it means that Thylacoleo didn’t avoid chewing on bone as assiduously as cheetahs do, but it wasn’t a bone-crusher like the spotted hyena. Thylacoleo came out somewhere in between, mostly preferring to feed on flesh but sometimes chewing on—or through—the bones of its prey.

“People tended to see it as ‘big, bad carnivore, can eat anything it wants,’” says Brown University paleontologist Christine Janis . “This analysis confirms that it was more of a selective meat eater, and probably not much of a scavenger.”

Based upon the isotope data and other lines of evidence, such as where Thylacoleo bones have been found with other fossils, DeSantis also hypothesizes that this carnivore was an ambush predator that preferred relatively wooded environments, offering plenty of cover. In the old forests of Australia, Thylacoleo could stalk ancient, giant kangaroos like Protemnodon .

The trouble for the predator all started when climate change altered the local habitat. What drove some of Australia’s megafauna to extinction is a fiercely-debated question (just as it is with Ice Age extinctions elsewhere around the world). Some experts place the blame on newly-arrived humans, who hunted and used fire to clear the landscape, killing off many large and iconic species. Others point to climate change, noting dramatic shifts that, in this case, made Australia much more arid and denuded forests that many species relied upon.

If DeSantis and her team are correct that Thylacoleo relied on the forest for cover to stalk its prey, then the desertification of Australia would have stripped away the marsupial lion’s cover, leading to its demise.

“I think that climate is more important than people have been thinking. The extreme aridity of present-day Australia is probably relatively recent,” Janis says. More desert-like conditions altered Australia from about 300,000 years ago onward.

Given what we now know about the diet of Thylacoleo and its preferred habitat, harsh climate shifts made all the difference for this carnivore. “It’s an ambush hunter, it’s eating prey from these forests, it’s postcranial anatomy indicates it’s pouncing from trees or some sort of cover,” DeSantis says, and the loss of forest cover would have directly affected this carnivore’s ability to pounce upon its preferred prey, not to mention that there would be less prey to stalk in these environments. “With aridification, this animal was particularly vulnerable to extinction,” DeSantis says.

The tale of this lost predator may have lessons for today, as dramatic climate shifts driven by humans continue to alter habitats around the world. Thylacoleo, the real drop bear of history, likely won't be the last apex hunter to fall along with its environment.

====== 9 ========

NASA WILL ATTEMPT ITS EIGHTH MARS LANDING IN ONE WEEK

InSight is barreling in for a landing on Mars. The spacecraft will make its approach and landing next week via a tried and true method, but even though NASA has pulled this stunt before, dozens of things need to go exactly right during entry, descent, and landing (EDL) for InSight to arrive safely on the surface of the Red Planet.

At 2:47 p.m. EST on November 26, the InSight lander will hit the top of the Martian atmosphere, about 125 kilometers (70 miles) above the surface, traveling at 5.5 kilometers per second (12,000 mph). The craft’s ablative silica heat shield will rise to a temperature of more than 1,500 degrees Celsius—hot enough to melt steel. About three and a half minutes after atmospheric entry, the spacecraft will still be hurtling toward the ground at supersonic speeds. A parachute will deploy to decelerate as much as possible, the heat shield will jettison, and the spacecraft will start looking for the ground with a radar. About six minutes after hitting the atmosphere, the lander will separate from its back shell—still traveling about 180 mph—and fire its retro rockets to bring it the rest of the way home, touching down roughly a minute later.

If everything goes right—while engineers monitor control screens during the “seven minutes of terror,” unable to steer the distant craft in real time—InSight will come to rest in Elysium Planitia on the Monday after Thanksgiving and prepare to begin studying the seismology and internal heat of Mars. NASA can take comfort in the fact that such landings have succeeded in the past, but when you are attempting to land a craft millions of miles away, it’s impossible to prepare for every eventuality.

Whenever a Mars landing approaches, space fans get an earful of statistics. Before Curiosity’s landing, “more than half of all Mars missions have failed.” Before Europe’s ExoMars’ launch, “more missions have failed than not: 28 flops compared to 19 successes." After the ExoMars orbiter succeeded, but its lander did not (at least, not entirely): “Of the about a dozen robotic lander and rover missions launched to Mars, only seven have succeeded.”

The statistics are dramatic, but the story they tell is a little dated. There was a spectacular run of failures in the latter part of the 20th century—Mars 96, Mars Observer, Mars Climate Orbiter and Mars Polar Lander’s losses still sting. But while Russia has never achieved a complete success at Mars, NASA, the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) have all pretty much nailed orbital insertions at Mars since Y2K. China, India and Japan have their second Mars-bound missions in the works, and the United Arab Emirates is planning their first, not to mention the ambitions of several private entities.

Mars orbit insertions have become relatively routine in the 21st century, but Mars landings are still some of the most difficult deep-space missions ever attempted. ESA’s two successful orbiters both included tiny landers that were never heard from after touchdown, though ExoMars’ Schiaparelli lander returned data nearly all the way to the surface.

Three things make a Mars landing much more difficult than a moon landing—or an Earth landing, for that matter. First, unlike the moon, Mars is too far away for any ground-bound human to be in the loop during a landing attempt. The time it takes for a signal to travel from Mars to Earth and back is never less than nine minutes and is usually much longer, so by the time we can hear and respond to a signal that our spacecraft has hit the top of the atmosphere, the end result, one way or another, has already occurred.

The second problem is Mars’ atmosphere. There is both too much and too little. On Earth, when astronauts and sample capsules return from space, we can protect spacecraft behind heat shields and use the friction of atmospheric entry to slow the hypersonic craft to subsonic speeds. Once the flamey part is over, we can simply pop out a parachute to further reduce the velocity and drift to a gentle (or, at least, survivable) touchdown on land or water.

Mars’ atmosphere is thick enough to generate a fiery entry, requiring a heat shield, but it’s too thin for a parachute alone to slow an entering spacecraft to a safe landing speed. When Curiosity hit the top of Mars’ atmosphere in 2012, it was traveling at 5.8 kilometers per second (13,000 mph). When the heat shield had done all it could do, the spacecraft was still hurtling toward the ground at 400 meters per second (895 mph). Curiosity’s parachute could, and did, slow it down, but only to 80 meters per second (179 mph). Hitting the ground at that speed is not survivable, even for a robot.

On an airless world like the moon, heat shields are not required and parachutes do you no good. But fear not, we’ve had the technology for lunar landings since the 1960s: take some rockets and point them downward, canceling out the craft’s velocity.

The atmosphere makes things a little trickier on Mars, though. With moving air as an additional factor, unpredictable winds can add an equally unpredictable horizontal velocity to a descending spacecraft. For this reason, landing regions on Mars are required to have low regional slopes. High horizontal winds plus high slopes could put a lander much farther from, or closer to, the ground than it expects—and either situation could spell disaster.

So a Mars lander needs three technologies to reach the surface: a heat shield, a supersonically deployable parachute and retrorockets. The Viking missions to Mars in the mid-1970s prepared by test-launching parachutes on suborbital rockets to verify that they could inflate without shredding at faster-than-sound speeds. All successful Mars landings since then (all of them NASA’s) have relied on parachutes with Viking legacy. Recently, NASA has worked on a new effort to develop deceleration technologies able to land spacecraft heavier than the Viking probes—an effort that was not, initially, successful, resulting in catastrophically shredded parachutes. (More recent tests have worked better.)

Keeping all of this in mind, what do we know about what went wrong for recently failed Mars landers? For two of them—Mars Polar Lander and Beagle 2—we can only speculate. The spacecraft had no ability to transmit real-time telemetry data as they descended. The Mars Polar Lander failure taught NASA an important lesson: If we are to learn anything from our failures, we have to collect as much data as we can up to the point of failure. Ever since the Mars Polar Lander crashed into the surface at the end of 1999, every Mars lander except ESA’s Beagle 2 has transmitted data to an orbiter that recorded raw radio signals for future analysis in the event of failure.

These days, there are many orbiters at Mars, so we can do even better than that. There’s always one orbiter listening to and recording every last bit of radio signal from a lander, just in case of disaster. And there’s usually a secondary orbiter that doesn’t just listen to the signal, but decodes it and relays the information to Earth as fast as the slow travel of light will allow. This “bent-pipe” data transmission has given us the adrenaline-laced, real-time picture of Mars landing attempts.

When InSight lands, it will fall to the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter to record telemetry for future dissection if the attempt fails. To get real-time data of the landing, however, InSight has brought along two little spacefaring companions: the MarCO CubeSats, each only about three feet long. The Mars Cube One spacecraft are the first-ever interplanetary CubeSats. If the craft succeed, the world will get its real-time reports on InSight’s landing, and the little space robots will pave the way for future, tinier, cheaper trips to Mars.

But for now, all eyes are on InSight. NASA has successfully landed on Mars seven times, and before the month is out, the space agency is going to try to make it eight.

Emily Lakdawalla is a planetary evangelist at The Planetary Society and the editor of the society’s quarterly publication, The Planetary Report. Her new book is The Design and Engineering of Curiosity: How the Mars Rover Performs Its Job.

====== 10 ========

WHY A NEW ROBIN HOOD ARISES EVERY GENERATION

Folklore comes from the folk, which is why “robbing the rich to give to the poor” is a motif that has endured for centuries in the imagination of the people. When it comes to the redistribution of wealth in ballad and legend, heroes never rob from the poor to further enhance the fortunes of the rich.

The most recent illustration of this principle arrives in movie theaters on the day before Thanksgiving. Directed by Otto Bathurst, Robin Hood stars Taron Egerton in the title role, with Jamie Foxx as Little John, Ben Mendelsohn as the Sheriff of Nottingham and Eve Hewson as Marian.

The 2018 film version uses new digital technologies in many of the action sequences, but employs much of the same traditional folklore in casting Robin as the quintessential social bandit righting injustice by robbing from the rich and giving to the poor.

As the new blockbuster film settles into nationwide circulation, I went in search of the deep roots of the hero Robin Hood in archival records and folklore references. Assisted by Michael Sheridan, an intern serving at the Smithsonian’s Center for Folklore and Cultural Heritage, it soon become clear that in times of economic downturns, in times of tyranny and oppression, and in times of political upheaval, the hero Robin Hood makes his timely call.

We do not know if there ever was an actual Robin Hood in medieval England, or if the name simply attached itself to various outlaws in the 13th century. It is not until the late 14th century—in the narrative poem Piers Ploughman by William Langland—that references to rhymes about Robin Hood appear.

I kan noght parfitly my Paternoster as the preest it syngeth, But I kan rymes of Robyn Hood and Randolf Erl of Chestre, Ac neither of Oure Lord ne of Oure Lady the leest that evere was maked.



According to a timeline assembled by Stephen Winick at the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress, stories about Robin Hood continued to circulate for the next several centuries, gradually taking on many of the details that are familiar today: Robin as a “good” outlaw, according to Andrew of Wyntoun’s Orygynale Chronicle (ca. 1420); Robin living in Sherwood Forest, according to the ballad “Robin Hood and the Monk” (ca. 1450); Robin robbing the rich and giving to the poor, according to John Major’s History of Greater Britain (1521); and Robin as a noble earl, according to Richard Grafton’s Chronicle at Large (1569).

As these stories developed and spread, Robin became the quintessential “social bandit,” a term popularized in the late 20th century by the British historian Eric Hobsbawm. “Though a practice in social banditry,” he writes, “cannot clearly always be separated from other kinds of banditry, this does not affect the fundamental analysis of the social bandit as a special type of peasant protest and rebellion.” In other words, social bandits are not criminals, Hobsbawm maintains, but rather they are defenders of the honest folk against the evil forces of tyranny and corruption, especially during times of economic uncertainty. Moreover, Hobsbawm identified this as a worldwide phenomenon, including Balkan haiduks, Brazilian congaceiros, Indian dacoits, and Italian banditi.

Perhaps, what is most fascinating about Robin’s social banditry is how the folk tale has spread to certain outlaws in the United States, who (like the Robin Hood of the Middle Ages) are regarded as defenders of the folk. Take for instance, the tale A Gest of Robyn Hode, dating to around 1450, in which Robyn Hode aids a poor knight by loaning him 400 pounds so that the knight can pay an unscrupulous abbot. Robyn shortly thereafter recovers the money by robbing the abbot. Some 400 years later, a similar story is told about the American outlaw Jesse James (1847–1882) from Missouri, who is supposed to have given $800 (or $1,500 in some versions) to a poor widow, so that she can pay an unscrupulous banker trying to foreclose on her farm. Shortly thereafter Jesse robs the banker and recovers his money.

Jesse James rose to near celebrity stature in 1870s, active as a bank, train and stagecoach robber during a time of economic depression in the U.S., especially following the Panic of 1873. Twenty years later, the Panic of 1893 triggered another economic depression, out of which emerged Railroad Bill, an African-American Robin Hood whose specialty was robbing trains in southern Alabama.

The Great Depression of the 1930s saw a similar rise of other social bandits, who were often celebrated as Robin Hood hero figures. John Dillinger (1903–1934) from Indiana was seen as a crusader, fighting the enemies of the folk by robbing banks at a time when banks were known to collapse taking with them with their depositors’ savings and foreclosing mercilessly on home and farm mortgages. According to one oral history in the Folklore Archives at Indiana University, Dillinger became “a hero to the people, you know—kind of a Robin Hood. He would steal from the rich and give to the poor. . . . Everybody was poor then—we were in a depression, you see. Dillinger was poor. The only ones that were rich were the banks, and they were the ones who made everybody else poor.”

When Dillinger was killed by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation outside a movie theater in Chicago, the title of Public Enemy Number One went next to Charles “Pretty Boy” Floyd (1904–1934). Known as the “Oklahoma Robin Hood,” Floyd, according to Time magazine, was believed to be “always looking out for the little guy.”

“Rumors circulated that he had destroyed mortgage notes when he robbed banks, freeing struggling farmers from foreclosure.” One of Floyd’s fellow Oklahomans, Woody Guthrie, reaffirmed the Robin Hood legend with a ballad about Floyd helping the “starvin’ farmer” and “families on relief.”

Well, you say that I'm an outlaw,

You say that I'm a thief.

Here's a Christmas dinner

For the families on relief.

Contrasting the social bandit with white-collar criminals, Guthrie concluded, “some [men] will rob you with a six-gun, and some with a fountain pen.”

How and why Depression-era bandits like Dillinger and Floyd acquired their reputations as Robin Hoods must have been perplexing and frustrating for law enforcement officials. But many folklorists believe it’s partly a matter of circumstance—real-life bank robbers achieve renown during economic depression and partly also that the folk cannot resist creating new social bandits with traditional motifs in their own hard times.

The latter phenomenon may explain why social banditry is celebrated in nearly every film version made about Robin Hood, even when these films are produced by large Hollywood studios that may have more in common with the rich than with the poor.

Not much is known about the earliest such film, the 1908 Robin Hood and His Merry Men, but the first feature-length version, Robin Hood of 1922, following a sharp recession after World War I, was a spectacular success. Robin was played by Douglas Fairbanks, one of the most popular silent film stars, sometimes termed the “king of Hollywood,” who never walked on screen when he could leap and bound. His Robin good-naturedly relishes each new swordfight and opportunity to shoot arrows with great accuracy.

Errol Flynn, perhaps even more swashbuckling than Fairbanks with sword and longbow, played Robin next during the Great Depression in the 1938 The Adventures of Robin Hood, a Technicolor extravaganza that codified Robin as leader of a jolly band of bandits in Sherwood Forest, fighting passionately for truth and justice against unscrupulous noblemen who try to seize the English throne while King Richard the Lion-Heart is returning from the religious wars known as the Crusades.

These same elements have remained in nearly every film version since. Most notably for Sean Connery’s recession-era 1976 Robin and Marian, in which Robin returns to Sherwood Forest after the death of King Richard. Next, during the oil price shock economy for Kevin Costner’s 1991 Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, in which Robin fights against a conspiracy led by the Sheriff of Nottingham. And again, following the 2008 international banking crisis for Russell Crowe’s 2010 Robin Hood, in which Robin fights against a French conspiracy to invade England.

Theatergoers are no doubt in need of new Robin Hood folk hero in 2018. This year’s band of men and women in Sherwood Forest remain merry even as the evil forces of tyranny and corruption seek to marginalize them in 21st-century fashion.

====== 11 ========

THE WORLD’S FIRST SYNTHESIZER WAS A 200-TON BEHEMOTH

In 1893, Thaddeus Cahill, a Washington-based, 115-pound hyper-metabolic child prodigy whose business instincts matched his scientific acumen, realized that tones generated from an electric dynamo could simulate all of the qualities of instruments such as violins and pianos, and mechanically iron out their defects. He was influenced in his thinking by the German scientist Hermann von Helmholtz, whose 1862 book On The Sensations Of Tone had been translated into English in 1877.

Essentially, von Helmholtz showed that there was more to a musical note than was suggested by the seemingly irreducible black symbol written on a piece of paper; that it was made of component parts—harmonics—that created distinguishable “tone colors,” which were what distinguished different instruments playing the same note. This was vital knowledge to those, like Cahill, who were in the business of devising machines to synthesize sound. It brought music into the realms of science and engineering, opened it up as a potential palette rather than a mere notational system; the technicolor 20th century was at hand. Von Helmholtz himself even constructed a simple “synthesizer” to help illustrate his point. Moreover, with the invention of Alexander Graham Bell's telephone, Cahill envisaged that his instrument would have the power to replace entire orchestras and be broadcast telephonically across the country, bringing classical music and opera to the masses.

The name of Cahill’s instrument would be the Telharmonium, which would go through various versions, with its inner workings ensuring it weighed in at 200 tons. As Reynold Weidenaar wrote in his 1995 study Magic Music From The Telharmonium, “His guiding vision was twofold: a machine that could produce scientifically perfect tones, and absolute control of these tones to a mathematical certainty by mechanical means. Such fine control should allow the player to express all his spellbinding emotion with the surging power and intensity of a violinist — with as little mechanical impediment as possible. The tone should be sustained indefinitely, like an organ, but should yield willingly to the musician's touch with absolute sympathy and sensitivity. The instrument must of course retain the chord capacity of the piano or organ. Thus could the defects of the three great domesticated musical instruments — piano, organ, and violin — be consigned to oblivion.”

All of this would come at a cost, however — $200,000. And so, Cahill and his business partners put on a demonstration for a group of businessmen in Baltimore. He arranged for them to hear a performance of “Handel’s Largo,” played from Washington and broadcast by phone via a horn attached to the receiver. The gambit was successful and they agreed to put up $100,000 as a first installment for the license to distribute Telharmonic performances and construct the first commercial version of the instrument.

News of the Telharmonium spread, even across the Atlantic to Britain’s Lord Kelvin, whose scientific endeavors included an early attempt to determine the age of the planet earth. He invited Cahill to deliver a paper on the subject of the Telharmonium in London. Meanwhile, work began on the huge rotor mechanisms required to develop the instrument and create “tonal pigments” to simulate the sounds of orchestral instruments. Finally, in 1905 the Telharmonium was up and ready to be installed in New York, and for its sound to be broadcast to thousands of hotels, theatres and restaurants across the country. These establishments were only too keen for a musical broadcast system, having had to work with large human orchestras to supply discreet music to their patrons, not always very discreetly or inconspicuously.

Initial feedback and experience of the Telharmonium was mixed. There were complaints that its broadcasts were interfering with the telephone wires used for domestic calls. One man, it was said, had phoned his wife one evening to say he was working late at the office, only for the interfering, Telharmonium strains of “William Tell” to strike up on a crossed wire, convincing his angry spouse that he was making whoopee at some good-time joint. There were complaints too from the musicians about the immense difficulty in playing the instrument’s complex rig of keyboards, despite their supposed labor-saving properties. Meanwhile, orchestral musicians themselves naturally viewed the new machine with great suspicion, regarding it not unreasonably as a device to catapult them onto the breadline. Others found the sounds generated by the Telharmonium a touch . . . synthetic. They missed the authentic rasp of traditional instruments, whose “defects” they regarded as integral to their character.

Others, however, appreciated the unnaturally sweet, sonorous sounds produced by the Telharmonium, as well as being astonished by the sheer fact that they were attending to live sounds being broadcast from many miles away. Mark Twain, on hearing the Telharmonium declared, “The trouble about these beautiful, novel things is that they interfere so with one's arrangements. Every time I see or hear a new wonder like this I have to postpone my death right off. I couldn't possibly leave the world until I have heard this again and again.” The writer Ray Stannard Baker was an early enthusiast for the machine, especially its ability to bring music once the sole province of the wealthy, to everyday people, thereby “democratizing” music the way libraries had books and galleries art. He acknowledged the effect this would have on working musicians but noted as a positive that this would mean fewer strikes; furthermore, those specimens of antiquity who had to scrape a living sawing on bowstrings and parping into wind instruments would in the future have a niche appeal to those who appreciated their olde worlde charm, persisting as candelabras and horses did in the electric light and automobile age.

Future Sounds: The Story of Electronic Music from Stockhausen to Skrillex In FUTURE SOUNDS, David Stubbs charts the evolution of electronic music from the earliest mechanical experiments in the late nineteenth century to the pre-World War I inventions of the Futurist Luigi Russolo, author of the “Art Of Noises” manifesto. Buy

By 1907, however, the Telharmonium was in desperate trouble. Cahill and Co. weren’t reaping anything like enough in terms of revenue to cover their maintenance costs and salaries. "The times are hard, applicant is poor, the expense is burdensome,” groaned Cahill. The arrival of other technologies such as player pianos and Wurlitzers, with the wireless radio also heaving in from the horizon, made the Telharmonium, for which dispensation had been granted to lay its own cable system just a short while earlier, seem very old, obsolete and unwieldy hat. The Telharmonium was a harbinger of the future but its own future was shadowed by a mountain of debt. Bankruptcy followed. The Telharmonium was a dinosaur of the pre-futurist age, laid low by its 200-ton ambitions, high maintenance, immobility and inability to adapt.

In 1916, Edgard Varèse fetched up in America. A future inspiration to Frank Zappa among others, he spent most of his career as a composer awaiting the instruments that would truly articulate the “noise” of the 20th century and the deeper, elemental forces their unleashing signified. He was naturally keen to hear the Telharmonium and made directly for West 56th street to hear the latest version instrument where it was stationed. By this time, however, it was effectively a museum piece. The composer whose music anticipated technologies yet to be invented had the misfortune to arrive in New York in the post-Telharmonium age. He was disappointed by the machine, and perhaps little wonder; sound-wise, its most direct bequest has been the humble Hammond organ. In principle, however, it represented something quite new, quite else and quite vast to come.

Excerpted from FUTURE SOUNDS: The Story of Electronic Music from Stockhausen to Skrillex by David Stubbs. Published with permission from Faber & Faber. Copyright © 2018 by David Stubbs.

====== 12 ========

THE TEN BEST BOOKS ABOUT FOOD OF 2018

The world around us may be aswirl in chaos, but food writing was an undeniable bright spot in 2018. This year’s best offerings tackle a number of topics, including why people around the world eat certain things, how one defines “American” food, and why some ingredients taste good with other ingredients. Many of them have a deeper message, too: We’re all in this together. Food has an uncanny ability to connect people, because, after all, we all eat.

From essays on the global ubiquity of fried chicken to explainers on the ascension of tofu in the mainstream American diet, this year’s food books address complex subjects with humor, vivid detail and uncompromising skill. They’ll also make you very, very hungry, as only the best food books can.

You and I Eat the Same: On the Countless Ways Food and Cooking Connect Us to One Another In the opening pages of You and I Eat the Same, an impressive collection of essays and stories about how food connects people across political lines and cultural borders, editor Chris Ying admits that he wasn’t initially sold on the book’s title. “I’m still not prepared to say that you and I eat exactly the same,” Ying admits in the introduction. “But after reading what our contributors had to say about the ways food links us together, I feel distinctly closer to other people.” Maybe that’s because it’s hard to argue with many of the book’s points: For one, myriad cultures wrap meat in some form of flatbread (think tacos, dosas, scallion pancakes, and more). Consider, too, that people the world over prepare their own version of fried chicken (Koreans, Japanese, and Americans, to name a few). The book is the first in a series by MAD, a global food symposium launched by modernist chef René Redzepi, who co-owns the groundbreaking Copenhagen restaurant Noma. Redzepi penned the forward, and in his own essay contribution, “If It Does Well, It Belongs Here,” promotes the idea of venturing outside one’s culinary comfort zone. Hear, hear!

The Food Explorer: The True Adventures of the Globe-Trotting Botanist Who Transformed What America Eats In the annals of American history, botanists tend to draw a short stick in the glory department. And yet, much of how Americans eat today—specifically, our predilection for things like avocado toast, mango smoothies, and yes, even kale salads—is thanks to the 19th-century explorer David Fairchild. In this globe-trotting biography, journalist Daniel Stone dives into Fairchild’s many adventures, misadventures and close calls on behalf of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Centuries later, these exploits’ mark on the American palate remains indelible. “In 1908, few people had seen a soybean,” Stone writes. And yet, within a century, “the evolved descendants of soybeans that [Fairchild’s employee, Frank Meyer] shipped back would cover the Midwest of the United States like a rug. Soybeans would be applied to more diverse uses than any other crop in history.”

Milk!: A 10,000-Year Food Fracas Food historian Mark Kurlansky is famous for his deep dives on singular subjects, which range from salt to cod to oysters, and his latest work is everything one expects from this obsessive researcher. Milk! delves into the world’s most complex cultural, economic and culinary stories centered around milk, from Greek creation myths to modern pasteurization. In the New York Times Book Review, reviewer Rich Cohen aptly describes it as the “sort of book that Proust might have written had Proust become distracted by the madeleine ... you step away from this book with a new vantage on history, a working knowledge of exotic milk and cheese, acceptance of your mom, a sense of what makes Mark Kurlansky tick and a weird craving for buffalo mozzarella."

Buttermilk Graffiti: A Chef’s Journey to Discover America’s New Melting-Pot Cuisine Few chefs are as well equipped to tackle the American melting pot as four-time James Beard award-winning chef Edward Lee, who famously blends his Korean heritage with the culinary traditions of the American South in his four restaurants. In Buttermilk Graffiti, a book that’s half travelogue and half memoir, Lee investigates the true spirit of America through its food, his explorations pulling him from a Uyghur café in New York’s Brighton Beach to the sugar-dusted tables at Café du Monde in New Orleans and beyond. The book includes 40 of Lee’s recipes—think dishes like miso creamed corn, bourbon nuoc cham-roasted oysters and green tea beignets—all of them inspired by his travels.

Why You Eat What You Eat: The Science Behind Our Relationship with Food The factors that determine your eating habits are vast and complex, posits neuroscientist Rachel Herz in Why You Eat What You Eat, which manages to decode a host of bone-dry academic studies in a way that’s both conversational and fascinating. Herz explains that taste and emotions are fundamentally intertwined: “why eating sweets can make us kinder,” she writes, “how depression can make grapes taste more sour, and how bitterness can change our moral outlook.” Skeptical? Don’t worry, Herz has the facts to back up her claims. She also explains why bacon-scented underwear exists, which, depending on your vantage point, might just be Why You Eat What You Eat’s greatest contribution of all.

The Seven Culinary Wonders of the World: A History of Honey, Salt, Chile, Pork, Rice, Cacao, and Tomato In the history of the world, seven food staples—honey, salt, chile, pork, rice, cacao and tomato—have emerged as some of the most essential to the human experience, writes Jenny Linford in The Seven Culinary Wonders of the World. Beautifully illustrated by Alice Pattullo, the work peels back the layers of each ingredient, tracing their movements around the world and the ways in which they forever changed the cultures that adopted them. From the introduction of tomatoes to Europe by Spanish conquistadors to the earliest cultivation of rice in China’s Pearl Valley, Linford’s stories reveal that humans are more connected than we ever thought possible.

Hippie Food: How Back-to-the-Landers, Longhairs, and Revolutionaries Changed the Way We Eat Staples like brown rice and yogurt hardly warrant a raised eyebrow in 2018, but back in the 1960s and 1970s, such ingredients were the provenance of the long-haired and the radical. In Hippie Food, food writer Jonathan Kauffman examines the unusual men and women who bucked culinary norms and introduced tofu (and bean sprouts and granola and whole-grain bread) to the mainstream, from charismatic gurus to back-to-the-landers. Even those familiar with this tale might learn a thing or two. “I thought I knew this story,” writes Michael Pollan in his New York Times review, “but Kauffman has added a lot to it, in the way of both fresh information and narrative verve. In his telling, hippie food resulted from the convergence, around 1970, of three different strains of food ideology: health food faddism; ethical vegetarianism; and a post-Silent Spring critique of industrialized food and farming.”

Godforsaken Grapes: A Slightly Tipsy Journey through the World of Strange, Obscure, and Underappreciated Wine The number of wine grape varieties in the world number about 1,400, but the vast majority of all wine drunk worldwide is made from a mere 20 of them. So explains drinks writer Jason Wilson in Godforsaken Grapes, which places obscure and underappreciated fruit under a long overdue spotlight, from the golden-skinned Bordeaux variety Sémillon to the tannic, deep-red Boğazkere grape from southeastern Anatolia, Turkey. Drinking his way across the world’s most famous wine regions, Wilson uncovers the geopolitical, economic and cultural factors that influence our wine choices. We highly recommend that you read this with a glass of vino in hand.

The Flavor Matrix: The Art and Science of Pairing Common Ingredients to Create Extraordinary Dishes The world’s top flavor expert might be… a computer? In The Flavor Matrix, culinary school instructor James Briscione breaks down revelations made by Watson, IBM’s artificial intelligence computer system, which manages to make flavor connections on the molecular level that eluded even Briscione’s advanced palate. The unlikeliest of pairings? Strawberry and mushroom. Blueberry and horseradish. Clam and melon. Even avocado and cocoa are a match made in culinary heaven, apparently. Briscione and Parkhurst back up Watson’s work with recipes and detailed infographics, making The Flavor Matrix the food-pairing bible you never knew you needed.

====== 13 ========

THE INNOVATIVE SPIRIT: CHANGING OUR WORLD FOR THE BETTER

Newsletters

Get the best of Smithsonian.com by email. Keep up-to-date on:

History

Science & Innovation

Art

Travel

Special Offers

Sign-Up Now

Email Address Enter your email address

====== 14 ========

THE TEN BEST STEM TOYS TO GIVE AS GIFTS THIS YEAR

In the grand tradition of Black Friday deals, toys for grownups dominate the doorbuster lists: TVs, laptops, tablets, smart home devices. But there are just as many tech toys for kids out there now, and how to pick the best robot, app, game or playset for your budding scientist or engineer can be a dizzying task.

Related Content The Ten Best STEM Toys of 2017

Monica Cardella and Elizabeth Gajdzik have you covered. At Purdue University’s INSPIRE Research Institute for Pre-College Engineering, Cardella and Gajdzik work with pre-school, school-age, college undergrads, engineers and parents to test and rate science- and tech-themed products that companies submit for review each year. Highly recommended toys, games and books make it into the institute’s annual Engineering Gift Guide; this year’s edition includes 128 products, mostly released in 2018 and 2017.

Along with the now-expected mix of building sets and toys with lights and motors, Cardella says one emerging trend is the availability of a wider variety of STEM-related books.

“That’s exciting for a couple of reasons: some kids are more interested in reading than in building,” Cardella says. “Books are a way to reach them and get those kids excited in STEM. But also, for the kids who are more interested in building, having books that connect to those interests help them become stronger readers.”

“I love to pair a book with a toy—for example, a book on the Curiosity [Mars rover] along with a rover toy,” Gajdzik says. “It gets kids thinking about the engineers’ thinking and design constraints, and then they can play with their own ways to design and code.”

To help gift-givers find just the right present for their loved ones, Cardella and Gajdzik narrowed their list down to a roster of top recommendations—and a few honorable mentions for each age category.

Ages 3+

Magformers Sky Track “This is a toy that any time we brought it out, it was well-played with, from three-year-olds to undergrads,” Gajdzik says. Compatible with other Magformers sets, the kit features a “sky shuttle” that kids can send adventuring on a customizable monorail-like course. A special spin track lets the shuttle do a 360-degree roll, and a lift track that raises the car from a lower track to the upper rail. The variety of possible configurations encourages creative play, while kids put their spatial reasoning skills to work to build the accompanying booklet’s suggested designs. (Magformers, $129.99)

The Most Magnificent Thing Penned and illustrated by Ashley Spires, this story’s everygirl is the embodiment of the kind of perseverance that often leads to surprisingly gratifying ends. “The main character has this idea to create the most magnificent thing, but she can’t get it out into the world the way she wants it to be,” Cardella says. Trying, failing, finally getting mad, then looking at her previous attempts with new eyes, the central character demonstrates the iterative nature of science and discovery. (Kids Can Press, $16.95)

Hape Flexistix STEM Building Multi-Tower Kit Though multiple products from toymaker HAPE’s Flexistix line made it into the 2018 Engineering Guide, Cardella and Gadjzik both recommend the Multi-Tower for its many pieces and sheer creative possibilities. Kids can build a variety of architectural forms by joining bamboo sticks with flexible silicone connectors – easy for even young builders to do as an independent activity. In the testing lab, kids built dinosaurs and helicopters as well as towers; environmentally minded families may appreciate the company’s use of sustainably sourced, eco-friendly materials in all their toy offerings. (HAPE, $34.99)

Honorable Mentions

Gears! Gears! Gears! Machines in Motion (Learning Resources, $39.99)

Grand City Station Railway Set (HAPE, $130)

PolyM Dinosaur Paradise Kit (HAPE, $49.99)

Ages 5+

Code & Go Mouse Mania Board Game Get cheese, win game. Easy, right? Not quite: for young players to claim victory with the biggest pile of cheese in this classic-style board game, they must first chart a course via sequences of “code” from game cards drawn at each turn. Strategic thinking and problem solving skills abound to figure out how to get to board-jumping warp zones and around walls other players program into their path. “Kids really love the 3D cheese and mouse pieces,” Gadjzik said. “Parents liked that the game is screen-free, and that each game is different every time you play.” (Learning Resources, $18.39)

Botley the Coding Robot Activity Set Though this toy is also screen free, it definitely comes with the cache of moving parts: the wide-eyed Botley robot. Using the included remote clicker, kids can program the little wheeled robot to move through a sequence of up to 80 moves at a time. The set includes materials kids can use to build pathways for Botley to follow, obstacles to navigate, and toys to play with. Though kids can plan out their pathway with the included coding cards, testers at the INSPIRE lab enjoyed tinkering and learning to guide the robot through trial and error. (Learning Resources, $79.99)

Rosie Revere and the Raucous Riveters: The Questioneers Book #1 This page-turner by Andrea Beaty follows beloved picture-book character Rosie Revere in her first chapter book volume of the Questioneers series. Along with friends Ada Twist and Iggy Peck, Rosie takes on the challenge of inventing a solution to help a friend participate in an art contest in spite of two (!) broken wrists. Illustrated by David Roberts, the tale demonstrates the power of perseverance, creativity and teamwork. Parents said they enjoyed the diversity of characters in the book, Gadjzik says, and that the main character is a “strong, smart female.” (Abrams Books, $12.99)

Honorable Mentions:

Pattern Play 3D (MindWare, $34.95)

Gadgets & Gizmos Invention Kit (Lakeshore Learning, $49.99)

CatStronauts 4-book series, by Drew Brockington (Little, Brown Books, $7.99 each, paperback)

Engilina’s Trains, by Andrew King (Little Steps Publishing, $24.95)

Ages 8+

Snap Circuits Jr. SC-100 Electronics Exploration Kit The most-played-with toy out of any in the testing lab, this set has all the hallmarks of becoming a timeless classic like Lego and Knex, says Gadjzik and Cardella. This 30-piece beginner kit includes a booklet with 100 circuit projects, but like other free-form building toys, users can easily improvise to come up with their own electronic designs. The large, color-coded pieces are easy to snap on and off of the grid board, and Gadjzik notes that even young kids understand when they’ve made an error: “The project doesn’t light up or make noise, so they know immediately to go and look for where they went wrong. They want the reward of getting it to work.” (Elenco, $34.99)

Curiosity: The Story of a Mars Rover This colorful 48-page book by Markus Motum tells the story of NASA’s beloved Martian rover—from its design, build, launch and extraterrestrial journey, but all from the robot’s point of view. Mokum told Space.com in an interview that he was inspired by the entire process of creation, and that the “human element was just as inspirational in telling the story as the science behind it.” Gadjzik says that after reading the book with her five-year-old son, he recognized Curiosity in a different resource—and even undergrads in the INSPIRE testing lab reported learning new facts from the book, as well. (Hudson Booksellers, $22.99)

Asteroid Escape Cardella’s favorite logic game among this year’s offerings, Asteroid Escape is a riff on the classic sliding-tile game. Playing as a spaceship stranded in an asteroid field, players must shuffle the ship around to free it from the field while avoiding the protruding asteroid tiles. The game includes 60 challenges that increase in difficulty, but that incrementally teach strategies for planning how to get around future obstacles. (Smart Games, $14.99)

Honorable Mentions:

Engineered! Engineering Design at Work, by Shannon Hunt (Kids Can Press, $17.99)

Chibitronics Love to Code Creative Coding Kit (Chibitronics, $85.00)

Kanoodle Extreme (Educational Insights, $14.99)

Best Overall STEM Toy

====== 15 ========

MIT FLIES MODEL AIRPLANE POWERED BY THE BLUE GLOW OF ELECTRIC FIELDS AND IONIC WINDS

Since their invention more than 100 years ago, airplanes have been moved through the air by the spinning surfaces of propellers or turbines. But watching science fiction movies like the “Star Wars,” “Star Trek” and “Back to the Future” series, I imagined that the propulsion systems of the future would be silent and still – maybe with some kind of blue glow and “whoosh” noise, but no moving parts, and no stream of pollution pouring out the back.

That doesn’t exist yet, but there is at least one physical principle that could be promising. About nine years ago, I started investigating using ionic winds – flows of charged particles through the air – as a means of powering flight. Building on decades of research and experimentation by academics and hobbyists, professionals and high school science students, my research group recently flew a nearly silent airplane without any moving parts.

The plane weighed about five pounds (2.45 kilograms) and had a wingspan of 15 feet (5 meters), and traveled about 180 feet (60 meters), so it’s a long way from efficiently carrying cargo or people long distances. But we have proved that it is possible to fly a heavier-than-air vehicle using ionic winds. It even has a glow you can see in the dark.

Revisiting discarded research

The process our plane uses, formally called electroaerodynamic propulsion, was investigated as far back as the 1920s by an eccentric scientist who thought he had discovered anti-gravity – which was of course not the case. In the 1960s, aerospace engineers explored using it to power flight, but they concluded that wouldn’t be possible with the understanding of ionic winds and the technology available at the time.

More recently, however, a huge number of hobbyists – and high school students doing science fair projects – have built small electroaerodynamic propulsion devices that suggested it could work after all. Their work was pivotal to the early days of my group’s work. We sought to improve on their work, most notably by conducting a large series of experiments to learn how to optimize the design of electroaerodynamic thrusters.

Moving the air, not the plane parts

The underlying physics of electroaerodynamic propulsion is relatively straightforward to explain and implement, although some of the underlying physics is complex.

We use a thin filament or wire that is charged to +20,000 volts using a lightweight power converter, which in turn gets its power from a lithium-polymer battery. The thin filaments are called emitters, and are nearer the front of the plane. Around these emitters the electric field is so strong that the air gets ionized – neutral nitrogen molecules lose an electron and become positively charged nitrogen ions.

Farther back on the plane we place an airfoil – like a small wing – whose leading edge is electrically conductive and charged to -20,000 volts by the same power converter. This is called the collector. The collector attracts the positive ions toward it. As the ions stream from the emitter to the collector, they collide with uncharged air molecules, causing what is termed an ionic wind that flows between the emitters and collectors, propelling the plane forward.

This ionic wind replaces the flow of air that a jet engine or propeller would create.

Starting small

I have led research that has explored how this type of propulsion actually works, developing detailed knowledge of how efficient and powerful it can be.

My team and I have also worked with electrical engineers to develop the electronics necessary to convert batteries’ output to the tens of thousands of volts needed to create an ionic wind. The team was able to produce a power converter far lighter than any previously available. That device was small enough to be practical in an aircraft design, which we were ultimately able to build and fly.

Our first flight is, of course, a very long way from flying people. We’re already working on making this type of propulsion more efficient and capable of carrying larger loads. The first commercial applications, assuming it gets that far, could be in making silent fixed-wing drones, including for environmental monitoring and communication platforms.

Looking farther into the future, we hope that it could be used in larger aircraft to reduce noise and even allow an aircraft’s exterior skin to help produce thrust, either in place of engines or to augment their power. It’s also possible that electroaerodynamic equipment could be miniaturized, enabling a new variety of nano-drones. Many might believe these possibilities are unlikely or even impossible. But that’s what the engineers of the 1960s thought about what we’re already doing today.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Steven Barrett, Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

====== 16 ========

THIS HOLIDAY SEASON, TREAT YOURSELF TO SOME SUCCULENT SOUL FOOD

From the artful ascending layout of its exhibitions to the assertive beauty of its architecture, the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. offers many enticements to visitors. One essential aspect of the museum experience that may be less apparent to first-time guests, however, is the Sweet Home Café, the museum’s in-house cafeteria.

Related Content Two Hungry Reporters Dig Into the Sweet Home Café at the African American History Museum

A far cry from your typical mess hall, the Sweet Home Café offers a large menu of complex dishes intimately connected with the African-American experience. Helmed by Maryland-born executive chef Jerome Grant, the Café categorizes its diverse, but invariably hearty, meals by region of origin: Agricultural South, Creole Coast, Northern States or Western Range.

These regions are likewise a roadmap of the just-released Sweet Home Café Cookbook from Smithsonian Books, which graciously ushers the mouthwatering entrees, desserts and sides of the Café directly into the homes of readers.

The agricultural south, once the nexus of plantation slavery, was the site of wide-ranging African-American culinary innovation from colonial times onward. Scant resources and brutal circumstances meant that a spirit of creativity was required to survive. Pioneering black cooks like Hercules, George Washington’s enslaved personal chef, or George Washington Carver, who ideated scores of novel uses for the peanut, helped lay the groundwork for a gourmet legacy.

In the Café Cookbook, Smithsonian chefs showcase updated takes on southern classics including chicken livers and grits (an evergreen example of culinary resourcefulness), fried okra (complemented by a dip of rich pimento cheese aioli), buttermilk fried chicken (a favorite at the museum), crackling cornbread (named for the pork rinds that impart a husky flavor to the product), and the tried-and-true New Year’s concoction known as Hoppin’ John (whose defining ingredients are black-eyed peas and rice).

Sweet Home Café Cookbook: A Celebration of African American Cooking The National Museum of African American History and Culture's Sweet Home Café showcases the rich culture and history of the African-American people with traditional, authentic offerings as well as up-to-date dishes. The award-winning culinary historian Jessica B. Harris served as advisor to the museum as it developed the café. Chef Albert Lukas crafted the innovative and highly acclaimed café menu, which ties together food history, heritage ingredient sourcing and modern tastes. Executive Chef Jerome Grant develops inventive special meals for holiday celebrations. Buy

The flavors of the Creole coast, a sizable stretch of territory rimming the Gulf of Mexico, diverge significantly from those of the southern staples above, largely due to the region’s confluence of disparate immigrant cultures. “Local foodways mixed and mingled with those of Europe, Africa and the Caribbean,” write coauthors Albert Lukas and Jessica B. Harris, “as well as with those of Native Americans through extended contacts within the Atlantic world.”

Creole selections from the cookbook include pickled Gulf shrimp (seasoned with allspice berries and celery seeds), Frogmore stew (a boiled blend of shrimp, crab, kielbasa sausage and corncobs), a catfish po’boy sandwich (the pride of New Orleans, served on a “French-style loaf”), and, for dessert, a filling rum raisin cake (whose molasses flavoring gestures to the region’s deep history of sugarcane cultivation).

Many tend to think of African-American cooking as strictly southern, but black chefs exerted ample culinary influence in New England and environs as well. The northern states region of the Sweet Home Café Cookbook—“which includes not only the ‘mythic’ north of the enslaved but also the north of the Great Migration”—was a hotbed of African-American experimentation with seafood recipes. The text notes that black northerners in early America would often leverage their culinary chops to climb the social ladder, as Rhode Island oyster and alehouse entrepreneur Emmanuel “Manna” Bernoon did upon his emancipation in 1736.

Connoisseurs of northern fare can look forward to sampling the book’s interpretations of pan-roasted oysters (blanketed by a piquant chili cream sauce), oxtail pepper pot stew (a Guyanese Christmas dish featuring cassava root syrup and flaming-hot wiri wiri peppers), Maryland crab cakes (fried and bearing traces of Dijon mustard, Old Bay, Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco) and their cod cake cousins (served with gribiche, a French twist on tartar sauce).

The featured region that may be most surprising to readers is the western range, but the authors of the Sweet Home Café Cookbook note that enterprising African-Americans who pushed westward in the age of conestoga wagons regularly devised rugged but tasty recipes on the fly. They also brought with them meals from their birthplaces, as was the case with ex-slave Abby Fisher, a postbellum migrant who established herself in San Francisco. Fisher built from the ground up a robust catering and pickle business, and penned a seminal African-American cooking text, What Mrs. Fisher Knows about Old Southern Cooking.

The Café Cookbook’s nods to the old west include a barbecued brisket sandwich (“In much of the South, barbecue is about pork. In Texas, however, beef brisket is the chosen meat on the barbecue trail.”), pan-roasted rainbow trout (glazed with hazelnuts and brown butter), empanadas (stuffed with black-eyed peas and chanterelle mushrooms in a cross-cultural twist), and cowboy campfire-appropriate son-of-a-gun stew (replete with onions, turnips, corn kernels and abundant short rib meat).

The selections from the four featured regions are complemented by a handful of dishes served exclusively at the African American History museum, ranging from curried goat and jerk chicken preparations playing on Jamaican traditions to a collard, tomato and cashew stew in which cardamom, curry powder and coconut milk put an Asian spin on African-American eating.

And if you’re struggling to liven up Thanksgiving this year, look no further than the Sweet Home Café Cookbook’s reinventions of Big Easy grillades (gravy-bathed turkey medallions garnished with fried apple wedges), candied sweet potatoes (“This version has so much taste that you won’t even miss the marshmallows.”), and peach and blackberry cobbler (paired with cold vanilla ice cream). All are guaranteed to content at least six quarrelsome relatives.

====== 17 ========

HOW THE FORMERLY UBIQUITOUS PUMPKIN BECAME A THANKSGIVING TREAT

With its spice-infused creamy, orange filling and crisp crust, there’s nothing quite like pumpkin pie to herald the arrival of the Thanksgiving holiday (though some might argue in favor of its other forms, from pumpkin bread to pumpkin ale). The pumpkin features uniquely in this fall holiday and the autumn weeks generally, remaining absent from other celebrations like the Fourth of July or Christmas. But at one point, the squash was as ubiquitous as bread—and sometimes even more so, as American colonists would rely on it to make bread when their harvest of wheat fell short. How did the pumpkin go from everyday produce to seasonal treat? It’s a story more than 10,000 years in the making.

To understand the surprising trajectory of the orange pumpkin, it’s important to know something of its life history. The cheerful pumpkin is known by the species name Cucurbita pepo—a species that also includes acorn squash, ornamental gourds and even zucchini. All these different forms of Cucurbita pepo are cultivars, varieties of the same species that are selected in certain forms by human farmers. And yes, they are technically fruits, though many refer to them colloquially as vegetables.

Before humans arrived in the Americas, wild forms of these squashes grew in natural abundance around floodplains and other disrupted habitats, with the help of enormous mammalian herbivores. Creatures like giant ground sloths, mastodons and gomphotheres (elephant-like animals) created the perfect environment for wild squashes, and when humans arrived and hunted the massive herbivores to extinction, many of the wild squashes and gourds went extinct as well. Those that survived managed to do so because humans continued growing them, making squashes (including in the pumpkin form) the first domesticated plant in the Americas. Archaeologists unearthed the oldest example of orange field pumpkin seeds in Oaxaca, Mexico and dated them to an astonishing 10,000 years—millennia before the appearance of domesticated corn or beans.

Initially, indigenous people used the squashes for their seeds and as containers, but by 2500 B.C. Native Americans in the Southwest were cultivating corn, beans and squash on farms. The crop spread across the Americas, with communities from the Haudenosaunee in the northeast (also known as the Iroquois Confederacy) to the Cherokee of the southeast planting and sometimes venerating the squash.

When Europeans arrived, they encountered the endemic crop everywhere. “Columbus mentioned them on his first voyage, Jacques Cartier records their growing in Canada in the 1530s, Cabeza de Vaca saw them in Florida in the 1540s, as did Hernando de Soto in the 1550s,” writes historian Mary Miley Theobald. Native Americans cooked the squashes in all manner of ways: roasting them in the fire, cutting them into stews, pounding the dried flesh into a powder, or drying strips of it into something like vegetable jerky. (At one point George Washington had his farm manager attempt the same preparation with Mount Vernon pumpkins, only for the man to report, “I tried the mode you directed of slicing and drying them, but it did not appear to lengthen their preservation.”)

For these colonists, the squashes provided an abundant source of nutrition, and they rarely distinguished one form of Cucurbita pepo from another. “Through the colonial era they used the words interchangeable for pumpkin or squash,” says Cindy Ott, the author of Pumpkin: The Curious History of an American Icon. As to whether the Pilgrims ate pumpkin at their iconic meal with Native Americans, Ott says there’s no mention of it in the written records, but people “probably ate it that day, the day before, and the day after.”

It wasn’t until the early-19th century that Americans began to distinguish between the different forms of Cucurbita pepo, when masses of people moved from the rural countryside to urban areas during the Industrial Revolution. Zucchini and other summer squashes were sold as cultivars in city markets; the pumpkin, however, remained on farms, used as livestock feed. City-dwellers, meanwhile, ached with nostalgia for their connection to the land, Ott says. By the middle of the century, popular songs pined for happy childhoods spent on the farm. The pumpkin served as a symbol of that farming tradition, even for people who no longer actually worked on farms. “The pumpkin has no economic value in this new industrial economy,” Ott says. “The other squashes are associated with daily life, but the pumpkin represents abundance and pure agrarian ideals.”

Pumpkin pie first appeared as a recipe in the 1796 cookbook American Cookery, published by New England writer Amelia Simmons, and was sold mainly in that region. When the dessert gained popularity, it was billed as a New England specialty. That connection to the North translated to the pumpkin being appropriated by abolitionists leading up to and during the Civil War, Ott says. Women who championed the anti-slavery cause also wrote poetry and short stories about pumpkins, praising them as a symbol of the resilient, northern family farmer. The status of the squash rose to national prominence in 1863, when President Lincoln, at the behest of numerous women abolitionists, named the fourth Thursday in November as a national holiday.

“The women who [helped create] Thanksgiving as a holiday were strong abolitionists, so they associated pumpkin farms with northern virtue and very consciously compared it to Southern immoral plantation life,” Ott says. “That feeds into how Thanksgiving became a national holiday in the midst of the Civil War, when the pumpkin was a pivotal player in the northern harvest.”

The link between Thanksgiving and pumpkin pie has continued to this day, with American farmers growing more than a billion pounds of pumpkin annually, the vast majority for Halloween and Thanksgiving. Urbanites travel out to family farms to buy their jack-o-lantern pumpkins, and visit the grocery store for canned pumpkin before the big holiday. For Ott, learning the history of the pumpkin was a lesson in how every-day objects can tell deeper stories.

“These very romantic ideas are about farm life and how Americans like to imagine themselves, because farming is hard work and most people wanted to leave the farm as soon as they could,” Ott says. “But [the pumpkin shows] how we think about nature, ourselves and our past. A humble vegetable can tell all these stories.”

====== 18 ========

SMITHSONIAN SCHOLARS PICK THEIR FAVORITE BOOKS OF 2018

Recommended by Christopher W. Wilson, director, Experience Design, African American History Program, National Museum of American History

Though I am sure there will be one, don’t wait for the movie, but instead pick up David Blight’s incredible biography Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom. If Ron Chernow’s Hamilton, could inspire a groundbreaking revival of interest in the history of the founding generation through its dynamic retelling on the stage, Blight’s positively cinematic treatment of the incredible life and personage of Douglass seems destined for the same influence in public history. It would be doubly fitting for this work to shape public memory in that its author has long been a leading light in the study not just of 19th century history but of how we collectively remember or forget that history, and its subject, Douglass, who was acutely aware of the importance of historical memory in deciding the ultimate winners and losers of the fight over slavery that tore apart the nation during his lifetime. The time seems right for the nation to remember Douglass, a towering figure in the 19th century, clearly the most famous black person of the time, but one of the most famous Americans generally. I’ve always been drawn to Douglass and other forgotten heroes of the struggle for equality in this nation who fought with vigor, confidence and gusto more than a century before the well-known freedom fighters of the 1950s and 1969s civil rights movement. We remember the strong words of a Malcolm X, the militancy of the Black Panthers or Robert Williams, the author of Negroes with Guns, or the defiance of Rosa Parks. But Frederick Douglass was all those people rolled into one, with some Martin King added in. This was a man, who while enslaved stood up to his owner, so much that he hired a slave breaking service (yes, that was a thing) to torture him into submission, and Douglass beat the man down. This was a man who entered segregated sections of rail cars in the 1840s, protesting Jim Crow before the term even existed. He was as Blight points out, arguably the most-traveled American of his time, his notoriety taking him across the nation and across the seas. And most importantly, he was a voice whose imagination of freedom, equality and the promise of America was not limited by the times in which he lived. We often give a pass to figures from the past who did not act or dream in pursuit of a more humane future, citing the limitations of the time in which they loved. Though he could not foresee the future he dreamt of and worked for—that hasn’t actually arrived yet—Douglass sought it nonetheless. He loved an America that did not exist in spite of the one in which he lived “cursed with the infernal spirit of slaveholding . . . and wrong.” For that role as a ‘prophet” as Blight calls him and for his legendary life of heroic action, check out the book. And also look forward to the eventual film! Idris Elba are you listening?

====== 19 ========

THE TRUE STORY OF THE ‘GREEN BOOK’ MOVIE

It was well after dark on a Saturday night in January 1963 when the Don Shirley Trio took the stage in Manitowoc, Wisconsin. The program of show tunes, jazz and classical music, the local paper reported, was “brilliant and exciting and warmly received by the large crowd.” But its famed leader and pianist, Don Shirley, who was black, knew his welcome was conditional. A hateful sign stood at Manitowoc’s city limits: “N-----, don’t let the sun go down on you in our town.”

From This Story The Negro Motorist Green-Book Buy

When the trio set out on another tour later that year, Shirley hired a white driver, a gregarious Italian-American bouncer known as Tony Lip, to handle problems that might arise in the “sundown towns” of the North and the Jim Crow-era South. “My father said it was almost on a daily basis they would get stopped, because a white man was driving a black man,” recalls Lip’s son Nick Vallelonga, who has turned their journey into Green Book, a new film garnering Oscar buzz.

Vallelonga was 5 years old when his father headed out on the road with the pianist. After they returned more than a year later, the men lived their separate lives—Shirley played to acclaim in Europe and Lip became an actor—but they remained friends. As a child Vallelonga visited Shirley in his studio in Manhattan and heard stories about their trip. “That’s an unbelievable movie,” he remembers thinking. “I’m gonna make it one day.” In his 20s, Vallelonga, an actor and occasional screenwriter, interviewed his father and Shirley about how these two men from starkly different backgrounds navigated the racism they encountered. But Shirley stipulated that he didn’t want the story told until after his death.

Both men passed away in 2013, and those conversations, along with letters Lip wrote his wife, form the basis of Green Book, which stars Mahershala Ali as Shirley and Viggo Mortensen as Lip. The title is a reference to The Negro Motorist Green Book, a travel guide for African-Americans published from 1936 to 1967 that promised “vacation without aggravation.”

Making the film more than half a century after the events it depicts hasn’t muted its powerful message about overcoming prejudice. Lip “was a product of his times. Italians lived with Italians. The Irish lived with the Irish. African-Americans lived with African-Americans,” Vallelonga says. The trip “opened my father’s eyes...and then changed how he treated people.”

====== 20 ========

HOW VOLTAIRE WENT FROM BASTILLE PRISONER TO FAMOUS PLAYWRIGHT

François-Marie d’Arouet was the kind of precocious teen who always got invited to the best parties. Earning a reputation for his wit and catchy verses among the elites of 18th-century Paris, the young writer got himself exiled to the countryside in May 1716 for writing criticism of the ruling family. But Arouet—who would soon adopt the pen name “Voltaire”—was only getting started in his takedowns of those in power. In the coming years, those actions would have far more drastic repercussions: imprisonment for him, and a revolution for his country. And it all started with a story of incest.

In 1715, the young Arouet began a daunting new project: adapting the story of Oedipus for a contemporary French audience. The ancient Greek tale chronicles the downfall of Oedipus, who fulfilled a prophecy that he would kill his father, the king of Thebes, and marry his mother. Greek playwright Sophocles wrote the earliest version of the play in his tragedy, Oedipus Rex. As recently as 1659, the famed French dramatist Pierre Corneille had adapted the play, but Arouet thought the story deserved an update, and he happened to be living at the perfect time to give it one.

On September 1, 1715, Louis XIV (also known as the “Sun King”) died without leaving a clear successor. One of the most powerful rulers in the history of France, raising its fortunes and expanding colonial holdings, Louis also dragged the country into three major wars. He centralized power in France and elevated the Catholic Church by ruthlessly persecuting French Protestants. The king’s only son predeceased him, as did his grandson. His great-grandson, at age 5, needed a regent to oversee the ruling of the state. That duty fell to Philippe Duc d’Orléans, who used his position to essentially rule the country as Regent until his own death.

Philippe change the geopolitical trajectory of France, forming alliances with Austria, the Netherlands, and Great Britain. He also upended the old social order, opposing censorship and allowing once-banned books to be reprinted. The atmosphere “changed radically as the country came under the direction of a man who lived in the Palais-Royal, at the heart of Paris, and was widely known to indulge mightily in the pleasures of the table, the bottle, and the flesh—including, it was no less commonly believed, the flesh of his daughter, the duchesse de Berry,” writes Roger Pearson in Voltaire Almighty: A Life in Pursuit of Freedom.

For Arouet, the loosening of social restrictions created an almost limitless sense of possibilities, and harnessing theater was perhaps the most effective way to spread the message of freedom and tolerance to the public.

“Voltaire estimated that only five percent of the population in Europe could read in his Letters on England in 1733,” says Gail Noyer, the editor and translator of Voltaire’s Revolution: Writings From His Campaign to Free Laws From Religion. “So [public performances of] plays had far more influence than books did, until much later in the century.”

As for where his work would be performed, only one choice presented itself, even though Paris hosted multiple theaters. “The Comédie Française had a virtual monopoly as the only theatre authorized and supervised by the court for the staging of tragedies and serious dramas,” writes Ian Davidson in Voltaire: A Life. “Almost anybody who wanted to be a writer wanted to write for the Comédie Française.”

Arouet worked feverishly on his play, Oedipe, only for it to be rejected by the Comédie Française. Still, the theater didn’t give him an absolute dismissal, instead suggesting revisions, which he continued hacking away at for several years. Finally, on January 19, 1717, the theatre agreed to put on a revised form of the play.

But the timing for Arouet’s success couldn’t have been worse. While he’d been at work on his play, Arouet continued to write popular verses that were shared among his friends—including a piece that referenced the rumors of the Regent’s incestuous conduct with his daughter:

“It is not the son, it is the father;

It is the daughter, and not the mother;

So far, so good.

They have already made Eteocles;

If suddenly he loses his two eyes;

That would be a true story for Sophocles.”

The verse clearly pointed to the Regent, Philippe, and his relationship with his daughter, and even for the permissive ruler, it was a bridge too far. On May 16, 1717, Arouet was arrested and taken to the formidable Bastille. He tried to plead innocence in his case, claiming he wasn’t the one who’d written the verses, but he had already admitted authorship to several friends—friends who turned out to be spies. “Conditions in the Bastille were harsh and oppressive, with its ten-foot walls, its ‘triple locks, and grills and bolts and bars’, and with poor food and no sunlight,” Davidson writes. Even worse, Arouet had no idea when he might be set free, if ever. His case never went through any type of judicial process; the length of his detention depended solely on the whim of the Regent.

After 11 months, the Regency decided to show mercy to Arouet, releasing him on Holy Thursday, April 14, 1718. Arouet was placed on the 18th-century equivalent of house arrest for several more months, but was finally allowed free entry in and out of Paris, and on November 18, 1718, the young man who had started to address himself as “Voltaire” had the first major success of his life: the staging of Oedipe at the Comédie Française.

The play was immensely popular, going on to run for a nearly unprecedented 32 performances, Davidson writes. Perhaps some of that popularity stemmed from the Regent’s titillating scandals. But Voltaire didn’t just attack hereditary monarchy; he also leveled charges against the corrupt power of the Church. In one of the playwright’s most famous lines, Queen Jocasta says, “Our priests are not what the foolish people imagine; their wisdom is based solely on our credulity.” Considering how powerful the Catholic Church remained, it was a dangerous dig to make—but one audiences thrilled to hear.

“Generally, the moral content of earlier plays stressed love of God and king, patriotic duty and the like,” writes literary historian Marcus Allen. “In the hands of Voltaire, however, the play itself became the primary vehicle for launching attacks upon the evils of the ancien régime.”

The popularity of the play catapulted Voltaire to true fame, but it also taught him of the dangers that accompanied outspokenness. As he continued writing plays, poems, letters and stories, Voltaire faced an increasing number of critics as well as fans, and would be exiled from France multiple times over the course of his life for offending the Catholic Church and the monarchy. But Voltaire’s stays in England, Holland, Belgium and Prussia exposed him to some of the era’s greatest Enlightenment figures; he was the first to bring the writings of Isaac Newton and philosopher John Locke to France. With his condemnation of torture, war, religious persecution and absolute monarchy, Voltaire paved the way for the ideas that would fuel the French Revolution in 1789, and inspired great American intellects like Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. Yet according to Noyer, much of that legacy is forgotten today.

“The only thing people seem to know anymore is Candide,” Noyer says, referencing a satirical novel about the dangers of optimism. “I think it’s only chosen as a safe subject, because it certainly wasn’t a big deal in his lifetime.” For Noyer, the real masterpiece is how much Voltaire managed to achieve with his words: helping to inspire the French Revolution and teaching people to think more critically about religious intolerance and injustice.

====== 21 ========

A FRESH LOOK AT THESE STONE TOOLS REVEALS A NEW CHAPTER OF ANCIENT CHINESE HISTORY

You probably think of new technologies as electronics you can carry in a pocket or wear on a wrist. But some of the most profound technological innovations in human evolution have been made out of stone. For most of the time that humans have been on Earth, they’ve chipped stone into useful shapes to make tools for all kinds of work.

In a study just published in Nature, we’ve dated a distinctive and complex method for making stone tools to a much earlier timeframe in China than had previously been accepted. Archaeologists had thought that artifacts of this kind had been carried into China by groups migrating from Europe and Africa. But our new discovery, dated to between 170,000 and 80,000 years ago, suggests that they could have been invented locally without input from elsewhere, or come from much earlier cultural transmission or human migration.

Several different species of humans lived on Earth at this time, including modern ones like us. But we haven’t found any human bones from this site, so don’t know which species of human made these tools.

These Chinese artifacts provide one more piece of evidence that changes the way we think about the origin and spread of new stone tool technologies. And intriguingly we made our discovery based on artifacts that had been excavated decades ago.

New technology among old stones

Archaeologists have identified five modes humans have used to make stone tools over the last 3 million years. Each mode is represented by a new stone tool type that is dramatically different from what came before. The appearance of each new mode is also marked by a big increase in the number of steps needed to make the new tool type.

One of these modes, Mode III, also called Levallois, is at the center of several big debates about human evolution. Levallois tools are the defining features of the archaeological period referred to as the Middle Paleolithic, or Africa’s Middle Stone Age. They are the result of a set of very specific steps of chipping a piece of stone to create similar-sized tools suitable to be shaped for a variety of purposes. These steps are remarkable because they are a much more efficient way to produce lots of useful cutting tools, with minimal wasted stone, compared to earlier technologies.

One of these debates is whether Mode III tools were invented in one place and then spread out, or independently invented in several different locations. Since the world’s oldest securely dated Levallois tools have been found in north Africa from around 300,000 years ago, it’s possible they spread out from there, carried by groups of early humans migrating across Europe and into Asia. On the other hand, finds of similarly early Levallois tools in Armenia and India support the idea of independent inventions of the technology outside of Africa.

Changing the chronology in China

In China it has been hard to find evidence of Mode III tools until relatively late in the Palaeolithic period, approximately 30,000 to 40,000 years ago. That’s concurrent with when Mode IV (blade tools) appear there. Ancient people in China appeared to leap from Mode II (stone hand axes) to Mode III and IV at the same time. This suggests that Levallois tools appeared in China when modern humans migrated in and brought these new technologies with them around 30,000 to 40,000 years ago.

Our results support a different story for the origin of Levallois tools in China. At Guanyindong Cave in Guizhou Province in south-central China, we found Mode III tools in layers dated to around 170,000 and around 80,000 years ago. This puts them well before Mode IV tools, and at around the same time that Levallois were the main tools used in Europe and Africa.

One major implication of our new early ages from Guanyindong Cave is that the appearance of Levallois tools in China is no longer tied to the arrival of modern humans and Mode IV tools 30,000 to 40,000 years ago. Instead, Levallois tools could have been invented locally in China – maybe by a different human species. Another possibility is that they were introduced by a much earlier migration, perhaps by the people whose teeth have been found in a cave in Daoxian, Hunan Province, who lived between 80,000 and 120,000 years ago.

Going back to Guanyindong Cave

Our discovery is a little unusual because we didn’t do any major new excavations. All of the stone tools we studied had been excavated from Guanyindong Cave in the 1960s and 1970s. Since that time Guanyindong has been famous as one of the most important Paleolithic sites in South China because of the relatively large number of stone tools found there.

Most are stored at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing, and our team spent a lot of time carefully inspecting each tool to identify the traces that reveal how it was made. It was during this painstaking analysis of the museum specimens that we encountered a few dozen Levallois tools among the thousands of artifacts in the collection.

During the previous excavations at Guanyindong Cave, researchers had used uranium-series methods to date fossils found in the sediments. This technique relies on the radioactive decay of tiny amounts of uraniumthat collects in bone shortly after it is buried to come up with an age range for its burial. But it’s hard to precisely determine the true age of bone using this method. At Guanyindong these uranium-series ages span a wide range, from 50,000 to 240,000 years ago. Also, the association between the dated fossil pieces and the stone artifacts was not recorded in detail. These problems meant that we couldn’t work out what layers the dated fossils came from, and if they were close to any of the Levallois stone tools.

Using only information available from the previous excavation, we couldn’t be sure of the exact age of the Levallois tools in the museum. The dates were important to nail down, because if they were older than 30-40,000 years, then they could be the earliest Levallois tools found in China.

To uncover the true age of these Levallois tools, we made several trips to the cave to collect new samples for dating. It was challenging to find a suitable location to get the samples because the previous excavations didn’t leave much behind and much of the site was covered with thick vegetation.

We collected our new sediment samples from places where artifacts were still visible in the wall of the excavation, so we could be sure of a close connection between our samples and the stone tools. Essentially we were trying to collect new dirt from the spots where the museum artifacts had originally been excavated. The plan was then to test the samples with more advanced dating techniques than had originally been available.

Analyzing new samples to date old artifacts

Back in the lab, we analyzed the samples using single-grain optically stimulated luminescence methods. This technique can identify how much time has passed since each individual grain was last exposed to the sun. Dating many individual grains in a sample is important because it can tell us if tree roots, animals or insects have mixed younger sediments down into older ones. After we identified and removed intrusive younger grains, we found that one layer of artifacts dated to about 80,000 years ago. We dated a lower layer to about 170,000 years ago. Our museum work had identified Levallois tools in both of these layers.

With the combination of careful inspection of the museum collection, new fieldwork to collect samples, and a new laboratory method of dating the site, we had uncovered a surprising and important result. These Levallois tools are much older than those from any other sites in East Asia. This suggests a more widespread geographic distribution of Levallois prior to the dispersal of modern humans out of Africa and Europe into Asia.

One reason why it has been so hard to find evidence of the technique in China until now is that the number of people in East Asia during the Palaeolithic might have been much smaller than in the West. Small, low-density populations with weak and irregular patterns of social activity might make it hard for new technologies to spread and persist over a long time.

We don’t know what species of human made the tools at Guanyindong because we haven’t found any bones. Whoever they were, they had similar skills to people living in the West at the same time. They appear to have independently discovered the Levallois strategy in China at the same time people were making extensive use of it in Europe and Africa.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Ben Marwick, Associate Professor of Archaeology, University of Washington; Bo Li Principal Research Fellow in Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong; and Hu Yue Postgraduate Student in Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Wollongong

====== 22 ========

THE GARFIELD ASSASSINATION ALTERED AMERICAN HISTORY, BUT IS WOEFULLY FORGOTTEN TODAY

: After a year of deliberations, the National Mall and Memorial Parks and James A. Garfield National Historic Site unveiled two waysides today on the National Mall, on what would have been Garfield's 187th birthday. The dual markers contextualize the shooting of the 20th president by Charles J. Guiteau at the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Station on July 2, 1881, and also interpret Garfield's lasting legacy. The markers are positioned on the National Mall nearest to the south entrance of the National Gallery of Art's West Building, which is where the railroad station once stood. Read how the campaign to create a historical marker got started:

When President James A. Garfield was shot in the back by an assassin on July 2, 1881, the news electrified the country. Garfield was entering the Washington, D.C. train station, headed for summer vacation, when the attack came. Charles Guiteau, the 40-year old assassin—a lawyer, former bill collector, salesman, preacher, divorcee and political hanger-on who’d failed at most things in his life—had stalked the president for weeks. On this morning, he waited inside the train station until President Garfield entered the room, walking in arm-in-arm with his friend, Secretary of State James G. Blaine. Guiteau stepped behind the president and fired two bullets. One grazed Garfield’s arm, and the other hit him square in the back, knocking him to the ground.

As police grabbed Guiteau and started dragging him away, Guiteau declared: “I am a Stalwart and [Vice President Chester Alan] Arthur is now president.”

Telegraph wires instantly flashed the news across the country. Newspapers flooded city streets with extra editions, copies carried by high-speed trains and horseback to every rural hamlet. For the 79 days between Guiteau’s shots and the president’s death, Americans waited breathlessly for medical bulletins from the White House. They followed every change in Garfield’s condition, praying against the worst. During this time, a team of self-serving doctors probed Garfield’s wounds with unwashed fingers and instruments, allowing the President to contract an infection that would ultimately kill him.

More than 100,000 people came to see Garfield’s body lying in state in the Capitol Building Rotunda, and another 150,000 attended his funeral in Cleveland, Ohio. The new president, Chester A. Arthur, declared days of national mourning.

Americans who experienced these events in 1881 had no trouble appreciating the tragedy of Garfield’s death and the importance of his life. Many considered him perhaps the most promising president of their era, despite his having served only four months in office before the shooting. That generation would be shocked to learn that today, in 2018, just 137 years later, Garfield and his story are largely forgotten. Even the spot where the shooting took place, the old Baltimore and Potomac train station, is long gone.

Garfield was the third youngest president when he took office, just 49 when elected in 1880. His five young children, four sons and a daughter, made the White House a happy, playful home, despite his wife Lucretia’s serious fever (probably typhoid) that spring. The morning of the shooting, Garfield himself, at 6 feet tall and 210 pounds, performed handstands for his young sons in their bedroom and tossed them in the air while playing and saying goodbye.

The last president born in a log cabin, Garfield was raised in poverty on the Ohio Western Reserve, worked his way through Williams College, and taught at and became president of Ohio’s Eclectic University (now Hiram College). A lifelong abolitionist, he enlisted in the Union Army, became a captain, and participated in the Civil War battles of Shiloh and Chickamauga.

Elected to Congress in 1863, Garfield played leading roles in almost every major issue of the day. He helped win passage of the 14th and 15th Amendments to the Constitution to guarantee equal rights for freed slaves.

Garfield never actually ran for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1880—he attended the party’s convention that year to support another candidate, fellow-Ohioan John Sherman (brother of Civil War General William Tecumseh Sherman). But after the convention stalemated for 35 ballots, delegates stampeded to an alternative all knew as a competent and intelligent candidate, Garfield himself.

When finally elected president, Garfield had little time to enjoy it. In office, he quickly became embroiled in a signature fight of the era, the struggle against political bosses who strangled the works of government through patronage and spoils. Ultimately, he forced the Senate to abandon its practice called Senatorial Courtesy and confirm a reform-minded Collector of the Port of New York over staunch opposition from New York’s own powerful Senator Roscoe Conkling, who in turn resigned over the conflict.

By winning this fight, James Garfield cleared the way for what he hoped would be a highly productive presidency focused on civil rights, education and economic growth. But this was not to be.

The fight over patronage was the spark that prompted Charles Guiteau, the “disappointed office seeker” as he was called, to decide that James Garfield must be “removed” from office. Guiteau was likely mentally ill, but his insanity was informed by the politics of the day. The shooting of Garfield resulted in adoption of the 1883 Pendleton Civil Service Act, which mandated that government jobs be awarded on merit rather than political affiliation, and was one of the most important political reforms of the late 19th Century.

Garfield is one of just four presidents killed in office, and the sites of the other three attacks are rightly treated as a having major historic importance: Ford’s Theatre in Washington, Dealey Plaza in Dallas, and William McKinley’s assassination site in Buffalo, New York. Each has a marker and displays explaining the history and significance of the event. Garfield deserves the same treatment.

The site, however, presents some challenges. The old Baltimore and Potomac train station, located at 6th and B Streets NW, today’s Constitution Avenue, was long considered an eyesore even before the assassination. Built in the 1870s on landfill over the infested old Washington City Canal, its tracks extended south, splitting the National Mall, shooting soot into the air and causing pedestrian accidents. When Washington’s new Union Station opened nearby in 1907, city officials quickly closed the old depot and had it demolished.

Today, the spot where President Garfield was shot straddles Constitution Avenue between the National Gallery of Art and the Federal Trade Commission across the street, one of the busiest spots in the city. Thousands of locals and tourists alike pass by every day, having no idea of the shocking history that occurred here. On the Mall itself, walkways come within a few feet of the exact spot of the shooting with nothing to mark the spot.

It’s time for Garfield to have his marker too. It’s why I have joined the James Garfield National Historic Site’s initiative to memorialize the spot where an American president’s tenure was cut tragically short. History is too important to let it be forgotten.

====== 23 ========

JOSE GOMEZ-MARQUEZ WANTS TO TURN DOCTORS AND NURSES INTO MAKERS

Jose Gomez-Marquez admits he’s a horrible cook.

“But none of us show our credentials when we walk into the supermarket,” he told his interviewer Deborah Rutter, president of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and the audience gathered at “The Long Conversation,” a Smithsonian event that brought together 25 thinkers for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues at the Arts & Industries Building in Washington, D.C. last December.

The point he was making is that no matter our culinary skills, we all have access to food and an open invitation to give cooking a try.

So how can we create a culture where more people have access to health technology?

If Gomez-Marquez’s analogy holds any weight, it’s simple. “You create a culture where you give everybody permission to do it,” he said.

As the co-director of the Little Devices Lab at MIT, Gomez-Marquez works with a team of engineers and biologists to design tools to empower people to invent their own medical technologies. His group has developed a series of MEDIKits (Medical Education Design and Invention Kits) with simple components that allow nurses and doctors to fashion their own equipment. They’ve also created a system, called Ampli blocks, that consists of modular “plug and play” blocks that can be linked together in different ways to build diagnostic devices. In addition to these toolkits, the lab is working to establish medical maker spaces in hospitals, where doctors and nurses can do “just-in-time inventing”—basically, a place where they can invent something useful for a patient, then go back and treat that individual.

The idea for the Little Devices Lab came out of work Gomez-Marquez was doing in developing countries. He bore witness to the fact that 90 percent of medical devices in the developing world are donated and fail within six months, while an “army of frontline health inventors” are quietly making their own devices to solve many problems.

“We took that inspiration and we said how do we systematize it, how do we spread it as a culture, so that everybody can do this?” said Gomez-Marquez.

Mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Watch it on livestream here.

====== 24 ========

HOW POETRY SOOTHED A NATION IN MOURNING FOR JOHN F. KENNEDY

On that unsettling day 55 years ago this month, the nation began a pageant of tears. President John F. Kennedy was dead of an assassin’s bullet.

Schoolchildren were stunned to see strict and intimidating teachers weeping in the hallways. A Greenwich, Connecticut, mail carrier reported meeting a long line of sobbing housewives as he made his way from house to house. People lined up in front of appliance store windows to watch the latest news on a row of televisions. Before the four-day weekend had ended, more than a million had taken an active role in saying farewell to the president, and millions more had formed an invisible community as television linked living room to living room and brought almost every American within a big tent infused with unsettling questions.

Dazed citizens struggled to regain their equilibrium. Within minutes after gunfire stopped echoing in Dallas’s Dealey Plaza, this murder sent millions reeling, drawing them into a monumental event that would send a shock wave through the nation and create a commonwealth of grief.

In the wake of Kennedy’s death, many newspapers published poetry tied to that weekend. Subsequently, editors Erwin A. Glikes and Paul Schwaber solicited poems about the assassination. Those works, along with some written during Kennedy’s presidency, were compiled into a book published in 1964 and an audio album recorded a year later. Both are entitled Of Poetry and Power: Poems Occasioned by the Presidency and by the Death of President John F. Kennedy, and the album’s tracks are available on Smithsonian Folkways. The album itself, with Irene Dailey and Martin Donegan reading the works, can be found in the Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections at the Smithsonian.

“There is a sad felicity in the fact that the murder of John Fitzgerald Kennedy should have provoked this memorial volume,” wrote historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr, in the forward of the album’s liner notes. Poetry played a prominent role in Kennedy’s vision of America. “He believed that the arts were the source and sign of a serious civilization and one of his constant concerns while in the White House was to accord artists a nation’s belated recognition of their vital role.” The poems, he noted, “convey the impact an emphatic man can have on his times.”

That impact was felt with paralyzing emotions in America’s homes and in its streets, as the nation—both Republican and Democratic—wrestled with an unrelenting sense of disbelief. Many could not imagine such a crime in the United States’ modern democracy. The last presidential assassination had been more than 60 years earlier when William McKinley had been slain in a nation existing before radio, television, automobiles and airplanes had revolutionized American life.

Charles Wright’s “November 22, 1963” captured the hollow shock in the streets of Dallas.

Morning: The slow rising of a cold sun.

Outside of town the suburbs, crosshatched and wan,

Lie like the fingers of some hand. In one

Of these, new, nondescript, an engine starts,

A car door slams, a man drives off. Its gates

Bannered, streets flagged and swept, the city waits.

JFK had been the first president to conduct live televised news conferences, so he visited American homes frequently in an informal capacity. His intelligence and wit permeated both popular and political culture. While what he said was no more profound than the words of wartime leaders like Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, television made him more familiar; his connection, more personal. He still holds the highest average approval rating—70.1 percent—since the Gallup Poll began collecting this data more than 70 years ago. Furthermore, American historians’ most recent rankings place him as the eighth best president and the sole leader in the Top Ten to serve less than a full term.

In concise, sharp phrases, poet Chana Bloch marked JFK’s absence from the airwaves in “Bulletin.”

Is Dead. Is Dead. How all

The radios sound the same.

That static is our seed.

Is dead. We heard. Again.

More like something out of a dream than a part of daily life, that weekend indelibly imprinted scenes in American memory: the riderless horse, the rat-a-tat-tat of the muffled drums, the brave widow, the toddler saluting his father’s casket. The televised murder of the apparent assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, by Jack Ruby reinforced the sense of unreality. What is often absent from American memory is the near-universality of the shared bereavement and the wide range of emotions that struck even those who had been Kennedy’s opponents but never expected his presidency to end like this. When he was gone, few found joy in his absence. The shock, the tears, the shame engulfed America.

Poet Cynthia Ozick portrayed the politics of death in “Footnote to Lord Acton,”

The forgotten speaker,

The alternate delegate,

The trampled demonstrator,

The shunned and shunted eldest statesman with his honed wail unheard,

How irrelevant is death to the pieties of men!

Death the dark, dark horse.

And Robert Hazel, explored the unimaginable grief of the widow and her children in “Riderless Horse:”

Above the muffled drums,

the high voice of a young soldier

tells the white horses how slow to go

before your widow and children, walking

behind the flag-anchored coffin—

and one riderless black horse dancing!

When Air Force One returned home to Andrews Air Force Base about five hours after Kennedy’s death in Dallas, family, friends and officials were there to greet Jacqueline Kennedy, the casket and the nation’s new president, a shaken Lyndon B. Johnson. However, these dignitaries were not alone. Hidden in the darkness behind a fence stood 3,000 anonymous Americans, largely unseen. During the autopsy at Bethesda Naval Hospital, thousands more entered the hospital grounds. When the body finally left Bethesda on its way to the White House at around 4 a.m. on November 23, author William Manchester reported that members of the official party saw “men in denim standing at attention beside cars halted at intersections, and all-night filling station attendants were facing the ambulance, their caps over their hearts.” Unofficial cars joined the ghostly caravan to the White House.

The palpable grief for the young dead father and husband is painted vividly and gruesomely in Richard O’Connell’s “Nekros”

A head dropped back and dying

Pouring blood from its skull . . .

All history stark in that flow

The next day, the family and close friends remained mostly hidden within the White House, planning a well-choreographed, unforgettable funeral while confronting the first awkward moments of the transition from a young, clever and eloquent president to a plain-speaking, drawling Southerner who practiced the in-your-face, in-your-space politics of friendly intimidation. Johnson was a consummate politician, something Kennedy was not, and the new president possessed none of the intellectual aura and glamour that surrounded his predecessor.

On Sunday, the mourning again invited public participation. Late that morning, Washington sidewalks filled with 300,000 Americans gathered to watch a caisson deliver the president’s body to a funeral bier in the Capitol. At 3 p.m., the stately palace of the nation’s lawmakers opened its doors to a constantly replenished stream of 250,000 Americans, some waiting in line ten hours, to walk past the catafalque and say their goodbyes. On Monday morning, 5,000 people waiting in line were turned away. Preparations for the funeral had to begin.

Poet David Ignatow fled ritual, seeking reality in “Before the Sabbath”

Good father of emptiness,

you keep saying over and over

in the birth of children

that we are not born to die,

but the mind is dulled,

for the man is gone on a Friday

before the Sabbath of the world remade.

Smiling, he is dead,

too quickly to explain.

More than a million lined the capital’s streets to see the coffin travel from the Capitol to the White House and then stood amazed as international figures such as French General Charles de Gaulle and Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie followed Jacqueline, Robert and Edward Kennedy in a walk through the streets to St. Matthew’s Cathedral where the funeral Mass occurred. Afterwards, a line of official cars passed crowded sidewalks as it followed the casket to Arlington National Cemetery.

The stark rhythm of that moment resonated in William Butler’s “November 25, 1963” .

Drums, drums, I too am dead.

I breathe no breath, but only dread.

I have no soul, but lay my head

Upon his soul, and on that bed

I stop.

Audiences at home had a more intimate view inside the Capitol, within the cathedral and at the cemetery, where the Kennedys lit the eternal flame. The Nielsen ratings estimated that the average American home tuned into assassination-related events for 31.6 hours over four days. Many American children attended their first funeral when they watched services for JFK. Even to most adults, the Latin funeral Mass for the nation’s first Roman Catholic president was something new.

John Berryman’s anger at the senseless loss erupted in his “Formal Elegy”

A hurdle of water, and O these waters are cold

(warm at outset) in the dirty end.

Murder on murder on murder, where I stagger,|

whiten the good land where we have held out.

These kills were not for loot,

however Byzantium hovers in the mind:

were matters of principle—that’s worst of all—

& fear and crazed mercy.

Ruby, with his mad claim,

he shot to spare the Lady’s testifying,

probably is sincere.

No doubt, in his still cell, his mind sits pure.

Smithsonian Folkways sprang from a decision to acquire “extinct record companies” and preserve their work, according to Jeff Place, curator and senior archivist of Folkways. Moses Asch, Folkways founder, wanted to create “documentation of sound,” Place explains, and he wanted to share the sounds with a broad spectrum of the population rather than serving as an archive. Understanding the written materials that accompanied each recording plays a vital part in the process.

The spoken poems written about JFK’s death fit into the Folkways collection well, Place says. Folkways has other documentary recordings on topics including the U.S. presidency, the Watergate scandal, the House Un-American Activities Committee and other political themes.

As the texts within Of Poetry and Power reveal, JFK’s assassination struck a raw emotional chord that still rasps through the nation’s psyche. Trust in government has collapsed since his death. The Pew Research Center’s survey for 2017 showed only 3 percent believed the government could be trusted to do the right thing “just about always” and just 15 percent believed the government could be trusted “most of the time.” Trust hit an all-time high of 77 percent in 1964 as Americans clung to Lyndon Johnson like a sinking ship in featureless ocean; by 1967, distrust inspired by the Vietnam war—and growing belief in an assassination conspiracy—had begun to take hold.

====== 25 ========

SMITHSONIAN ADDS ARTHUR JAFA’S “LOVE IS THE MESSAGE, THE MESSAGE IS DEATH” TO THE COLLECTIONS

Arthur Jafa’s 2016 video Love is the Message, The Message is Death is a striking seven-and-a-half-minute display of the power and perils of the African-American experience, all set to Kanye West’s hit Ultralight Beam. The piece made its Smithsonian debut at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden November 2017 as part of the exhibition, "The Message: New Media Works," which closed in September. Now, Jafa’s seminal work officially joins the Smithsonian collections as the first joint acquisition between the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Hirshhorn.

“As part of SAAM’s collection, Jafa’s piece resonates powerfully with more than three centuries of artists engaging with America's racial complexities,” says Stephanie Stebich, director of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, noting the significance of the artwork for each of the museums. “Within the context of the Hirshhorn’s international contemporary art galleries, it stands as a defining work of 21st-century media art,” she says.

As a combination of found and original film, Love is the Message, The Message is Death knits together a century’s worth of video contrasting sensationalized and vilified blackness with images of joy, family and faith in the African-American community. Silent film reels are cut with present-day news coverage, music videos and footage Jafa shot himself or otherwise found online. The ordinary everyday happenings of a people as performers, worshippers, athletes, activists is threaded with the insult of having to live alongside hate, bigotry and destruction. Images and frames bleed into each other and bursts of sound disrupt Kanye and Kirk Franklin’s ethereal musings.

Says the Hirshhorn's director Melissa Chiu, the artist is “unapologetically bold" and "one of the most provocative" working today.

Saisha Grayson, who is the Smithsonian American Art Museum's curator of time-based media has viewed the work dozens of times. “I cry every time,” she says. “I cry at different parts, for different reasons, but I’m never not profoundly moved.”

As are most viewers, she suspects. During the weeks following Donald Trump’s presidential win in November 2016, thousands upon thousands of New Yorkers made their way to Harlem to see Love is the Message at the gallery where it had just debuted. The New Yorker designated the work “required viewing.”

To Grayson, Love is the Message, The Message is Death manages to be both timely and timeless. The video, she says, “speaks in the language of our time,” resonating as a “contemporary Guernica,” Pablo Picasso’s famous oil painting interpretation of the 1937 bombing of the northern Spanish town. Similarly, Grayson says the artwork forces individuals who would otherwise be desensitized to racial violence, or who cope with their trauma alone, to “look and think collectively about this national tragedy.”

SAAM’s third floor, where contemporary time-based media art like Jafa’s is usually displayed, is currently housing the immense Trevor Paglen exhibition, "Sites Unseen." So, museum goers may have to allow the museum some time to organize suitable programming before Love is the Message makes its SAAM debut. Similarily, there are no details yet on when the video will return for viewing at the Hirshhorn Museum.

====== 26 ========

HOW PHOTOGRAPHER ALFRED WERTHEIMER CAPTURED ELVIS PRESLEY’S KISS

Related Content When Elvis Met Nixon

Editors Note, November 16, 2018: In honor of what would have been Alfred Wertheimer's 89th birthday today. We are resurfacing this interview with the photographer, who died at age 84 in 2014. An exhibition of his photographs of Elvis Presley appeared at the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery in 2010 and we interviewed Wertheimer at the time.

In 1956, a young freelance photographer named Alfred Wertheimer was hired to travel with a young regional singer named Elvis Presley to document the performer's first national tour. Wertheimer snapped more than 2,000 images on his 10-day assignment, and 56 are now on view in "Elvis at 21," a traveling exhibition that just opened at the National Portrait Gallery (see a selection here). I spoke with Wertheimer about his experiences photographing the King.

What do you find special about the photos you took at age 26—so early in your career?

All the images that I took are really of the authentic Elvis, who was directing his own life. That’s what I think may be quite unique about the whole show. After all, in almost everything that Elvis did, starting with his early career, somebody was telling him what to do. Nobody really said to him: "Elvis, just be yourself, and we’ll tag along, and every once in a while we’ll grab something that we think is interesting, and we won’t ask you to do anything special for us, no posing, just go and live your life." That’s essentially what I did. Because not only was I shy, but he was shy also in a way, and I did not expect any more from him than to be himself.

What was your relationship with Elvis like? How do you think he allowed you to take so many photographs?

I think most of the time Elvis didn’t even know I was taking photographs. See, I had practiced to become an available light photographer, because I did not use strobe or flash, except in rare occasions where it was absolutely pitch black. The other thing is that Elvis had a feeling, I think, that he knew he was going to become very famous, but nobody else did. In order to become famous, you have to have somebody recording your actions at the time when you’re doing things. And what better way of doing that than to allow a photographer, who is very inconspicuous himself, and allow him to be close to you, so that when you do things, it’s recorded for posterity.

How did you shoot the "Kiss"?

I was in the men's room on the floor above the stage area at the Mosque Theater in Richmond, Virginia, on June 30 of 1956. I got more or less sidetracked and then I turned around and said: “Where’s Elvis?” Elvis had disappeared. I go down the stairs of the theater. I get down to the landing where the stage area is. You’ve now got 3,000 kids, mostly girls, in there, and the "Elvis Presley Show" is going on; except there’s no Elvis Presley around. I look down this long, narrow passageway, the light at the end of the tunnel. There’s a silhouette of two people at the far end, and I say, “Oh yes, there’s Elvis, with a girl, his date for the day.” Do I interrupt them? Do I squeeze off a frame or two from a distance or do I go closer in? Well, you start off becoming a human tripod, because you don’t want to start using flash. It’s really quite dark.

So then you decide, well, if I get closer and Elvis gets annoyed, he might say, “Al, get out of here, you’ve had it, go back to New York, don’t bother.” But, if I don’t shoot it, I can’t really consider myself a journalist. After all, I came here to do the story, and that’s part of the story. There’s a handrail on the left side. So I move up about five feet, and they’re busy, they’re intently involved with themselves. So I climb up on the handrail, and I wrap my legs around these metal tubes, and I’m now shooting over her shoulder, into his face. I’m getting close-ups. Nobody’s paying any attention to me because when people are doing things that are more important to themselves than having their picture taken, you usually get good pictures. It’s a simple formula.

So now I’m not satisfied, typically. I’m not satisfied with what? I’m not satisfied with back lighting. I want front lighting. But the only way to get front lighting is to go beyond where they are. So I put on my best maintenance man voice and say, “Excuse me, coming through.” I squeeze past the two of them. Again they don’t pay attention to me because they’re like hypnotizing each other. I’m now set on the landing facing the two of them, and I’m setting myself with the frame. It’s a fairly decent composition, and I’m waiting for something to happen within my frame. She says to him: “Elvis, I’ll betcha can’t kiss me,” and she sticks out her tongue just a teeny bit. And he says, “I’ll betcha I can,” in a very masculine, cool way. And he then approaches the kiss, he’s got his tongue stuck out just a wee bit, and he overshoots the mark. I didn’t realize that till I developed my film later on. He bent her nose, you see, a very romantic view. So now he backs off coolly, and tries it a second time, comes in for a perfect landing, and that’s the end of that. That tenth of a second became history.

You were a young freelancer at the time you took these photos. Do you have any words of advice for those in a similar place in their lives who can only hope for a moment in their careers such as this?

You know, I’ve done quite a few assignments, but the one assignment that people still want to see more and more of is the Elvis material. And in a way, that is almost unpredictable. On the one hand, you have to do the best you can with every chance you get at an assignment. On the other hand, because the Colonel was so uptight about allowing other media in and behind the scenes, my stuff took on much greater value than it really had a right to have. Most things of interest really happen behind closed doors. How do you get behind closed doors? I’m not talking about being technically competent to handle the problem once you get behind these closed doors, but your first job is to get in. Then you can quietly stay out of the way. Don’t kick the furniture over. Don’t bump into any microphone stands if you’re in a recording studio. And be curious.

If your pictures are too dull, generally it means that you aren’t close enough, so get a little closer. But don’t get so close that you become an annoyance. That’s all the difference in being able to use a wider-angle lens and still fill the frame with information and get texture. Texture is the thing that gives a photograph life. I mean, without texture it’s boring. It’s flat. Texture of the clothing, texture of the metal, texture of the pavement, texture of the guitar, texture of the skin. All of these things add up to believability, realism of sorts. I was into realism.

====== 27 ========

WEASEL-LIKE FOSSILS REVEAL EVOLUTIONARY CLUES OF THE FIRST MAMMALS

We tend to think of paleontology as an epic quest into the desert to recover pristine fossils, where groundbreaking discoveries are made by sun-singed explorers who stumble across the full skeletons of long-extinct behemoths. But this picture of fossil science isn’t how many important discoveries come to light. Sometimes stunning finds remain secret, even from scientists, until samples make it back to the lab. Such is the case with a distant protomammal relative of ours who was found with an entire litter of babies.

University of Texas at Austin graduate student Eva Hoffman detailed the discovery at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology meeting in Albuquerque last month, and the findings have also been published in Nature.

The story of the special specimen goes back to 2000, Hoffman says. In that year, her advisor Timothy Rowe was searching the 185 million-year-old rock of Arizona for skeletons of a peculiar animal called Kayentatherium. This dog-sized animal was an ancient cousin of ours, belonging to a group called tritylodonts that has been associated with the evolution of the earliest mammals.

Among the finds during the 2000 field season was a Kayentatherium skeleton that time hadn’t treated very kindly. The bones of the skeleton had fallen out of articulation, Hoffman says, and the quality of the bone wasn’t ideal for analysis. Nevertheless, that year’s expedition collected the fossil and some of the surrounding stone for further study.

Nine years later, the secret of this skeleton finally became known. In 2009, preparator Sebastian Eggberts held up part of the stone surrounding the Kayentatherium skeleton and noticed a tiny jaw. The itty-bitty fossil looked just like the jaw of the adult, and researchers soon realized that there were dozens of baby Kayentatherium fossils contained within the rock samples.

“While we can never be 100 percent certain of the association between the adult and offspring, it seems like the most reasonable interpretation in this case,” says University of Washington paleontologist Christian Sidor. The fact that Kayentatherium and its kin are thought to have been digging animals, Sidor adds, could mean that the adult and babies were buried together in some kind of den.

Preparing the fossil by mechanical means was out of the question once the babies were discovered, lest any tiny bones be accidentally destroyed. Rowe’s lab started making digital scans of the fossil block to see what else might be inside, which became Hoffman’s project in 2016. When she was done, she counted the remains of 38 baby Kayentatherium alongside the adult.

This was quite a surprise. Previous research emphasized how Kayentatherium and its relatives had evolved to become rather mammal-like, Hoffman says, sharing traits with the first shrew-like mammals that appeared about 160 million years ago. But such a large clutch size fits a more reptilian way of reproducing than the typically mammalian method of having smaller litters which receive more parental care.

“What we see in the Kayentatherium babies is that their faces are very similar to the faces of the adults, so when they grow up they basically just scale up the same shape,” Hoffman says. This type of development is similar to the way baby reptiles grow after hatching, but distinct from mammalian growth in which babies often have short, big-eyed, cute faces that significantly change as they grow. Furthermore, the hands and wrists of the baby Kayentatherium were already structurally strong. When they hatched out of their eggs—just like the modern platypus or echidna—the Kayentatherium babies were ready to get moving.

The research provides clues to how our Jurassic ancestors went from a more reptile-like mode of reproduction to something resembling the propogation of modern mammals, but to find the transition point, additional analysis and discovery are needed. While some experts place animals like Kayentatherium close to the evolutionary lineage that spawned mammals, others see them as more distant protomammal cousins, Sidor says. Likewise, even closely-related reptiles can have different modes of reproduction, so what may have been true for Kayentatherium may not have been true for other species.

Still, Sidor says, “this is a really important and spectacular discovery,” particularly because the find fills in details of the life and behavior of Kayentatherium that experts never expected to find.

“This is a find that shows the importance of the fossil record,” Hoffman says. Without physical evidence of association between an adult and juveniles, the way animals like Kayentatherium reproduced would have remained obscured by a 185-million-year gap in time.

The most spectacular finds are not always as obvious as a giant dinosaur skeleton embedded in the bedrock, and this family of Kayentatherium serves as a reminder to “keep an eye out for stuff you’re not necessarily looking for,” Hoffman says, as there are surely more surprises waiting in the rock.

====== 28 ========

THE LEANING TOWER OF PISA HAS GOTTEN A LITTLE STRAIGHTER

Since the early days of its construction, the Leaning Tower of Pisa has been plagued by its now-characteristic tilt. Work began on the bell tower in 1172; by the time builders reached the second floor, the building had started to lean. In more recent years, experts worried that the tower would topple over entirely. But as the Agence France-Presse reports, Italian engineers recently announced that the Leaning Tower of Pisa is not only in good structural health, but is also leaning a little less.

Nunziante Squeglia, an engineering professor at the University of Pisa and a member of the committee that monitors the tower, revealed that the famed structure has straightened by four centimeters (about 1.5 inches). He added that the good news is the result of a lengthy conservation effort that spanned from 1990 to 2001, during which time the tower was closed to visitors.

“We knew those measures would have protracted consequences,” Squeglia said, according to Elisabetta Povoledo of the New York Times. Engineers did not predict, however, that the structure would reduce its tilt.

The Leaning Tower of Pisa is part of a cathedral complex known as “Il Campo dei Miracoli,” or the “Field of Miracles.” The structure slumps because it was built on soft, shifting ground. Due to interruptions caused by conflict, financial setbacks and structural issues, it took nearly 200 years for the tower to be completed, which was in fact quite fortuitous. If the soil beneath the tower had not had time to compress, the entire building would have likely collapsed.

Still, the tower wasn’t in great shape. Over the centuries, it continued to slump until its tilt reached nearly 15 feet from the vertical. Experts worried it would collapse “at any moment.”

The conservation project that took place more than two decades ago saw workers put hundreds of tons of lead counterweights at the base of the tower and remove soil from its foundations, reports the Associated Press. In 2008, the engineers announced that the building had stopped moving for the first time in its 800-year history, and that the tower was 19 inches straighter as a result of efforts to salvage it.

To make sure that it continues its upward trajectory, the tower is carefully monitored and the number of visitors allowed inside the building is capped. But the site’s iconic lean isn’t going anywhere quickly. Squeglia said it would take “around 4,000 years” for the tilt to straighten entirely, according to the Times’ Povoledo, leaving plenty of time for tourists to take the obligatory “straightening the Leaning Tower” photo.

====== 29 ========

WHALES CHANGE THEIR TUNE EVERY FEW YEARS

As they glide through the ocean, mighty humpback whales belt out complex melodies of moans, cries and squeaks. These sing-a-longs can last for hours, and males in a given population are known to transmit tunes to one another; they add their own twists to the song, which are then picked up by other males. (Females don’t appear to sing.) Gradually, the songs spread between populations, so that a tune from an Indian Ocean population, for instance, might crop up among humpbacks of the South Pacific—like an ocean-wide game of telephone.

Now, as Roni Dengler reports for Discover, a new study has found that humpback whale songs don’t stay the same forever. The melodies evolve to become increasingly complex over a period of a few years until, suddenly, the whales drop the tune for a new and simpler song—something that the authors of the study, published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, deem a “cultural revolution.”

A team led by marine biologist Jenny Allen of the University of Queensland analyzed recordings of eastern Australian humpback whales, taken over the course of 13 consecutive years. In total, according to Virginia Morell of Science, they looked at 412 song cycles from 95 singers, scoring the ditties’ complexity based on the number of sounds, themes and variations.

The researchers found that the songs gradually evolve to become longer and include more parts, possibly due to flourishes that individual males come up with to distinguish themselves from the rest of the chorus. Scientists don’t know precisely why male humpbacks sing, but some have theorized that they are putting on an acoustic performance to attract females—or even to impress their male buddies.

“Since all the males in a population sing the same song, small changes might be an opportunity to stand out from the crowd,” Allen tells Dengler.

Every few years, however, the whales abandon their sophisticated melody in favor of a sparser song. The researchers aren’t sure why, but paring down the tune might give humpbacks a new opportunity to add their own embellishments. In a University of Queensland video, Allen compares the whales’ shifting song preferences to the ebb and flow of fashion trends among humans.

“When a new fashion trend comes in, everybody wants to look new and slightly different,” she says, “so everybody will incorporate that fashion trend until it becomes the norm.”

It is also possible that, after a certain point, the whales just can’t keep up with the increasingly elaborate songs. There may be “a limit to the whales’ capacity to learn new material,” Allen explains.

But make no mistake: humpback whales are highly sophisticated creatures. Their ability to transmit songs, not just within populations, but also between them, “is cultural transmission on a scale comparable to what we find in people,” according to Allen. Having a better understand of what drives cultural and social learning in whales could, therefore, help scientists gain new insight into why these traits have evolved with unparalleled complexity in humans.

====== 30 ========

ANTS TAKE SICK DAYS, TOO

When you come down with a cold or the flu, you might opt to keep your distance from other people in order to spare them from a similarly sniffly fate—and they in turn might steer clear of you. According to a new study, humans are not alone in their efforts to sequester the sick. In the presence of contagious pathogens, humble garden ants may also change their behavior to keep contaminated critters away from other members of the colony.

Ants are social creatures. They live in large groups, communicating and co-operating with one another to make sure that the colony functions as it should. Because they are often in close contact, ants are also vulnerable to contagious diseases. Studies have shown that ants are able to keep illness at bay through a number of hygienic mechanisms, like removing garbage and the bodies of dead colony members from their nests. Scientists suspected that the insects might also tweak their social behavior to decrease the spread of infections, but this hypothesis was, until recently, hard to prove.

“Ant colonies have hundreds of individuals,” explains Nathalie Stroeymeyt, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, who studies collective behavior in ant colonies. “Up to now, there was just not the technical methodology to measure their interactions at the colony level over extended periods of time.”

Fortunately, an automated tracking system developed by Swiss researchers in 2013 let Stroeymeyt and her colleagues get a detailed look at how 22 lab-reared ant colonies behave when disease is percolating in their midst. The team glued tiny 2D barcodes onto the ants’ thoraxes, which gave each insect a unique identifier—“just like a QR code,” Stroeymeyt says. A camera positioned above the ants’ enclosures snapped two pictures every second, and an algorithm detected and recorded the position of each barcode, giving the researchers’ a wealth of data about the ants’ movements.

For four days, the team let the ants scurry about in their enclosure undisturbed. As with colonies in the wild, some of the ants worked outside the nest to forage for food, while others—like the queen and “nurses” that tend to the developing brood—stayed inside the nest. On the fifth day, the researchers exposed some, but not all, of the foragers from 11 colonies to the fungus Metarhizium brunneum, which is frequently found in the soil of garden ants’ habitats and is known to make them sick. Foragers from the other 11 colonies were treated with a benign solution, to serve as a control group.

Crucially, previous studies have shown that the M. brunneum fungus takes at least 24 hours to infect ants, which in turn gave the researchers time to observe the insects before they were actually sick.

“We wanted to focus on [this] period … so that we could distinguish the active reaction of the ants themselves from side effects of sickness or parasite manipulation,” Stroeymeyt explains.

Writing in the journal Science, the researchers reveal that when the foragers were put back in their enclosure, the contaminated ants spent more time outside of the nest, meaning that they had less contact with the colony’s most valuable members: the queen, who lays all of the colony’s eggs, and the indoor workers, who are younger than the foragers and therefore have more hours to contribute to the colony. (Older ants are tasked with risky foraging jobs outside the nest because, as Stroeymeyt bluntly puts it, they “will die anyways.”)

But the crux of the study lies in the discovery that the contaminated ants weren’t the only ones to change their behavior. Foragers that had not been exposed to the fungus also increased the amount of time spent away from the nest. And the nurses inside the nest moved the young further inward and spent more time overlapping with them, which “could be seen as a spatial isolation from the foragers,” Stroeymeyt says.

How did the colony know to spring into disease-preventing action before the fungal spores had even infected certain foragers? The researchers aren’t certain, but the ants’ keen sense of smell could be key. Ants sniff around with their antennae, which are constantly touching and sampling the insects’ surroundings. It is entirely possible, according to Stroeymeyt, that an ant would be able to detect a festering fungus on one of its colony members, just as easily as it would be able to smell a pathogen on its own body.

Why non-contaminated foragers also decreased the amount of time spent in the nest is another interesting question. As the first line of contact with their soon-to-be-ill workmates, they may have somehow known to stay away from important members of the colony. But it is also possible that, having detected pathogens on their fellow foragers, they simply spent more time treating the contaminated workers outside the nest. Ants produce formic acid through a gland on the tip of their gaster, or abdomen; they can kill fungal spores on one another by picking up formic acid in their mouths and licking the bodies of their pathogen-laden buddies.

Although the researchers recorded fewer interactions between foragers and indoor workers, contact did not cease entirely—and this led to yet another interesting revelation. When they used simulations to model how fungal pathogens spread throughout the colony in the face of the ants’ social network changes, the researchers found that the probability of the queen and nurses receiving a potentially fatal load of the fungus went down, but the probability of these important ants receiving a low load went up.

“That's similar to immunization or vaccination in humans,” Stroeymeyt explains. “These low doses don't lead to mortality, but they allow the ant to develop some sort of protection against later exposure with the same pathogen. That [finding] is also something that's quite new.”

Moving forward, Stroeymeyt plans to investigate how pathogens trigger social changes in wild ant colonies, which can number into the hundreds of thousands; she suspects that segregation between indoor and outdoor workers might be even more pronounced in these large groups.

Megan Frederickson, an associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Toronto who was not involved in the new study, calls the researchers’ conclusions “a novel and exciting finding” brought about by “cutting-edge methods.” She adds that similar technology might help scientists study whether ants also change their social networks to transmit beneficial microbes to one another. And Frederickson thinks “the significance [of the study] even goes beyond ants.”

“I wonder,” she muses, “how often other social animals reorganize their networks to limit the spread of disease.”

====== 31 ========

NEWLY DISCOVERED ARTIFACTS REIGNITE FEUD OVER WHICH TOWN IS CONNECTICUT’S OLDEST

To an outsider, the Connecticut towns of Windsor and Wethersfield appear to be pretty similar. They are both about equidistant from the city of Hartford along the Connecticut River and Interstate 91. Both start with a “W.” And both are old, dating back to the 1600s. But for the last century, the two burgs have quarreled about one big sticking point: which one is the oldest English settlement in the state? The Associated Press reports that an archaeological dig at Wethersfield, which is bringing up lots of very old material, has reignited the friendly rivalry.

The dispute centers around which of the towns can really say it was a permanent settlement. Colonists from Plymouth, Massachusetts, the story goes, set up a trading post at the present site of Windsor in 1633. People did not officially build homes there, making it permanent, however, until 1635. In the interim, in 1634, emigrants from Watertown, Mass, moved into Wethersfield, building a true settlement.

Then there’s the legal establishment of the towns. “It’s been going back for years and years and years. More than 100 years, a very friendly rivalry between Windsor and Wethersfield,” Amy Northrop Wittorff, executive director of the Wethersfield Historical Society, tells Heather Burian at NBC News. “[Wethersfield] legally received permission to become a town in May 1635. Our neighbors in Windsor got their permission in June 1635,” she explains.

The question, the AP reports, hinges on what your definition of a town is. Is it a legalentity or a permanently occupied site? Can a trading post be considered a town? The people of Windsor think so. “We consider Windsor the first English settlement in Connecticut because it was continuously occupied since that Sept. 26, 1633 date,” Christine Ermenc, executive director of the Windsor Historical Society tells Burian.

Steven Goode at the Hartford Courant reports both towns derive their identity from the claim. Windsor’s motto is straight to the point: “First in Connecticut.” Wethersfield’s slogan is more flourished: “Ye Most Ancient Towne.”

Archaeologists from the nonprofit Public Archaeology Survey Team recently threw a wrench into the debate. Between 2016 and this year, the team excavated a site near Wethersfield, where a new museum is slated to be built.

Ray Hardman at Connecticut Public Radio reports that ground penetrating radar at the site revealed three disturbed areas, including two very old trash pits and a 20th-century site. The dig uncovered 20,000 objects dating all the way back to the 1630s, including the earliest hard evidence of English settlement in Connecticut. The artifacts of the era included coins, ceramics, trade goods and a defensive fence that would have protected the site from Native American attack.

“The 17th-century stuff was the most exciting because nobody knew it would be here,” Sarah Sportman, senior archaeologist on the team, tells the AP. “We have been able to document the lives of the people who live here.”

Ermenc is quick to assert to the AP that the artifacts don’t change Windsor’s stance, and that written records including settler’s diaries give points to team Windsor. “It doesn’t change our opinion,” she says. “We maintain that Windsor really is the earliest European settlement.”

====== 32 ========

RAPA NUI REPRESENTATIVES VISIT BRITISH MUSEUM TO DISCUSS REPATRIATION OF MOAI STATUE

Representatives of Easter Island’s indigenous Rapa Nui community met with officials from the British Museum this week to make an impassioned plea for the return of Hoa Hakananai’a, a sculpted basalt head removed from the island in 1868. The visit represents the culmination of a renewed recovery campaign sparked by Easter Island mayor Pedro Edmunds’ August appeal to the museum—and, as Naomi Rea reports for artnet News, marks the first time the London institution has agreed to enter discussions regarding the famed sculpture.

The imposing head’s fate remains unclear: Museum officials accepted an invitation to visit Easter Island and continue talks there, but a spokesperson emphasized the possibility of a loan rather than outright repatriation, telling the Times’ Tom Whipple that “the museum is one of the world’s leading lenders and the trustees will always consider loan requests subject to usual conditions.”

For the Rapa Nui, the statue’s 150-year absence is a visceral personal loss. As John Bartlett explains for the Guardian, the islanders believe the sculpture and its 900 or so extant compatriots, collectively known as Moai, are living incarnations of deceased relatives.

“We want the museum to understand that the Moai are our family, not just rocks,” Anakena Manutomatoma, a member of the island’s development commission, tells Bartlett.

Hoa Hakananai’a dates to roughly 1200 A.D. and is one of around 900 Moai carved by Easter Islanders between 1100 and 1600 A.D. The sculpture’s name, which translates to “lost or stolen friend,” offers an apt summary of its tangled provenance: Richard Powell, captain of the British Royal Navy frigate H.M.S. Topaze, spotted the statue on a clifftop while exploring the area back in 1868. Hoping to win the favor of his queen, Powell took both Hoa Hakananai’a and a smaller statue known as Hava back to England. The following year, Queen Victoria donated both sculptures to the British Museum.

The Rapa Nui’s latest repatriation effort has at least one powerful backer: the government of Chile, as represented during the London visit by National Assets Minister Felipe Ward. Chile annexed Easter Island, situated some 2,480 miles west of its capital city of Santiago, back in 1888 and made it a special territory in 2007. Under Chilean law, the Moai are deemed an “integral part of the land” rather than artifacts. Since last year, however, the indigenous group has regained control of its ancestral heritage when Chile’s then-president Michelle Bachelet returned the Moai and ancestral archaeological sites on the island to the Rapa Nui community in late November 2017. (They had been controlled by the Chilean National Forest Corporation since 1972.)

Chilean lawyer Paz Zarate tells the Times’ Whipple that the four-ton statue is one of the island’s most significant. Not only is it one of the few surviving constructed of basalt (the majority are made of soft volcanic tuff), but it is also unusually well-preserved. Carvings associated with the Tangata Manu, or “bird man” cult, adorn the sculpture’s back.

According to a separate BBC News article written by John Bartlett, Rapa Nui sculptor Benedicto Tuki has offered to create an exact replica of Hoa Hakananai’a in hopes of facilitating the real monolith’s return.

“Perhaps in the past we did not attach so much importance to Hoa Hakananai'a and his brothers,” Tuki says, “but nowadays people on the island are starting to realise just how much of our heritage there is around the world and starting to ask why our ancestors are in foreign museums."

For now, Hoa Hakananai'a will remain on view in the British Museum’s Wellcome Trust Gallery. But with a second discussion and trip to Easter Island in the works, the Rapa Nui remain hopeful. In the meantime, Tuki tells Bartlett, he and his peers will work toward the eventual goal of securing the return of all lost Moai—including those currently held on the Chilean mainland.

“We are just a body,” Easter Island governor Tarita Alarcón Rapu told press during the delegation’s London visit. “You, the British people, have our soul.”

====== 33 ========

FRENCH REPORT RECOMMENDS THE FULL RESTITUTION OF LOOTED AFRICAN ARTWORKS

In December of last year, French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech in Burkina Faso, promising to push for the return of African artifacts held in French museums. Now, a report commissioned by Macron recommends that he move forward with his plan by allowing the full repatriation of African artworks taken without consent from their countries of origin.

According to the Agence France-Presse, the report will be presented to Macron this week, but copies have been viewed by a number of media outlets. The document was researched and written by the French art historian Bénédicte Savoy and the Senegalese writer Felwine Sarr, whom Macron recruited to draw up proposals for repatriation.

The report focuses on items that were taken by soldiers, administrators or scientific explorers during France’s colonial period, which spanned from the 19th century until 1960s. African nations have in the past appealed for the return of such cultural artifacts, but French law currently prohibits museums from permanently handing over accessioned objects, reports Zacahry Small of Hyperallergic. Savoy and Sarr recommend that “legal mechanisms” be implemented to “allow the final and unconditional return of heritage objects to the African continent.” Then, the report puts forth a three-pronged plan for repatriation, according to Farah Nayeri of the New York Times.

Within the next year, the report states, France should seek to return several “largely symbolic” objects that have long been requested by African nations—like the statues and palace treasures that were taken from Abomey, in modern-day Benin, by the French military in 1892.

Between next spring and November 2022, French museums should collaborate with African officials to make inventories of items in their collections. The report also suggests that joint committees should examine restitution requests, and return “works judged to be important by the nation-states and communities concerned.”

In the final phase, according to the report, African nations that have not made restitution claims should do so, because the “process of restitution should not be limited in time.”

Changes in repatriation policies in France may put pressure on other European museums that have been asked to return looted cultural artifacts.

There are concerns within the museum community about what large-scale repatriation would look like in practice. Some institutions have sourced large portions of their collections from Africa; the Quai Branly Museum in Paris, for instance, features 70,000 sub-Saharan African relics.

Speaking to the Times’ Nayeri, Savoy stresses that “[t]here is no question, either for us or for our African counterparts, of emptying French or European museums to fill up African ones.” Instead, she says, the report’s recommendations seek to achieve “a rebalancing of the geography of African heritage in the world, which is currently extremely imbalanced, as European museums have almost everything, and African museums have almost nothing.”

The report also suggests that museums replace repatriated items with replicas.

To make these recommendations legally binding, Macron will have to push legislation through France’s parliament, “which has increasingly distanced itself from the European leader,” according to Hyperallergic’s Small. But for advocates of repatriation, the report is nevertheless a move in the right direction. Marie-Cecile Zinsou, president of the Zinsou Art Foundation in Benin, tells the AFP that “it feels as if we’re just a step away from recovering our history and being finally able to share it on the continent.”

====== 34 ========

BROWN RECLUSE SILK IS STRONGER THAN STEEL BECAUSE IT’S CONSTRUCTED LIKE A CABLE

Spider silk is often touted as some of the strongest material on Earth: According to some calculations, it can be up to five times stronger than steel cable of similar weight—though that comparison is not perfect. If humans could manufacture spider silk on an industrial scale, which they’ve been trying to do for decades, it could lead to an era of lightweight bulletproof vests, helmets, superstrong threads and patches that could be used during surgery and even lightweight airplane fuselages. One major problem, however, is that scientists don’t know exactly what makes spider silk so strong and stretchy. Recent studies, however, are beginning to unravel the mystery.

One reason spider silk has been difficult to figure out is that the strands of silk are super thin and getting a good look at the cylindrical threads under a microscope is difficult. Courtney Miceli at Science reports that’s why researchers at the College of William & Mary have concentrated on silk from the brown recluse spider, which produces a flat ribbon that is easier to examine using atomic force microscopy to look at the strands at the molecular level. That level of detail is necessary—the silk strands can be as tiny as 1/1000th the size of a human hair.

In their latest study in the journal ACS Macro Letters, the team found that instead of being one long strand of protein, the ribbon of silk is composed entirely of 1 micron-long nanostrands stuck together in parallel. Typically, about 2,500 of these mini-strands clung together to form one strand of silk.

“We were expecting to find that the fiber was a single mass,” co-author Hannes Schniepp of William & Mary says in a statement. “But what we found was that the silk was actually a kind of tiny cable.”

This isn't the team's first silken discovery either. In a 2017 study, they looked closely at how the little arachnids spin their silk, finding that they create tiny loops which add toughess to the fibers. Each strand has up to 500 loops per inch. Miceli reports that previous studies had proposed that nanostrands were involved in the makeup of the silk, but no one had considered that the entire strand would be composed of them. Armed with the new research and information about the loops, the researchers have now created a new model for the spider silk’s structure. The nanotendrils aren't braided together like in a rope cable, but are instead stuck together with relativley weak bonds. When they act as a whole, however, the strands give the silk its incredible strength.

Another study published in late October is also helping researchers make sense of spider silk. Scientists examining black widow spiders have figured out the complex process that transforms amino acids, the raw material for the webs, into actual spider silk. Using state of the art microscopy, researchers were able to watch how the spider's silk glands assemble the proteins into silk strands, a process that could help human spinners figure out more efficient ways of producing spider silk for commercial use.

While several companies in recent years have announced plans to bring spider silk products to market and introduced prototypes, including shoes and jackets made from the stuff, we’ve yet to see any arachno-clothing at the local mall.

====== 35 ========

THESE ANTS IMMOBILIZE PREY WITH ACID THEN DRAG THEM BACK TO NEST FOR DISMEMBERMENT

Floridian Formica archboldi ants have eclectic interior decorating tastes, to say the least: Whereas most ant species are content to cozy up in sand- or soil-filled mounds, F. archboldi prefer to litter their underground nests with the dismembered limbs and decapitated heads of hapless prey.

This behavioral tic has baffled scientists since the species’ discovery in 1958, but as Hannah Osborne reports for Newsweek, a new study published in Insectes Sociaux reveals exactly how the deceptively deadly F. archboldi—which is typically not known for preying on other ants—targets a specific species of trap-jaw ant, or Odontomachus.

Researchers led by Adrian Smith of North Carolina State University and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences have found that the key to these skull-collecting ants’ success is formic acid. F. archboldi spray their trap-jaw prey with the immobilizing chemical, then drag their kills back to the nest for dismemberment.

But trap-jaw ants are far from easy prey, Gemma Tarlach writes for Discover. Thanks to a set of spring-loaded mandibles capable of striking enemies more than 41 times per second, the trap-jaw ant is actually the more likely predator of the two species. In fact, Cosmos’ Nick Carne notes, scientists have previously posited that F. archboldi is either a highly specialized predator or a moocher of sorts, simply moving into abandoned trap-jaw nesting sites.

To better understand the relationship between F. archboldi and the trap-jaw ant, Smith and his team created a miniature test arena and pitted either an F. archboldi or Formica pallidefulva ant—a related species that has no known connection with Odontomachus—against a trap-jaw. Over the course of 10 trials, F. pallidefulva partially immobilized the trap-jaw just one time. Comparatively, F. archboldi bested the trap-jaw 10 out of 10 times. Seven out of 10 contests resulted in the trap-jaw’s complete immobilization.

The process of spraying victims with formic acid is known as chemical mimicry, according to Inverse’s Sarah Sloat. Trap-jaws are capable of producing the same formic acid as F. archboldi, but the latter happen to be more effective sprayers. Typically, chemical mimicry occurs amongst parasitic species that invade and overtake their prey. But, Smith tells Sloat, there is no evidence that F. archboldi is parasitic. Instead, the researchers suggest the ants’ deployment of formic acid is a defense mechanism designed to provide camouflage and ward off stronger predators.

In addition to observing interactions between Formica and trap-jaw ants, the team recorded high-speed footage of attacks and time-lapse footage of attack aftermaths.

“You could see the Formica ants pull in a trap-jaw ant from where they get their food and bring it into the nest,” Smith says in an interview with The Verge’s Rachel Becker. “And they’d start licking it, biting it, moving it around on the ground like they would with food. And then all of a sudden, 18 hours later, you’d see the head start to pop off of the trap-jaw ant. They would pull it apart, and start to dismember it.”

The new report offers insights on how these skull-gathering creatures trap their prey, but the exact reasoning behind the process remains unclear. As Smith tells Newsweek, he thinks the F. archboldi feed on the trap-jaws and leave behind their hollow head casings in a manner similar to humans casting off chicken bones after eating a pile of wings. Still, this explanation doesn’t fully account for the ant’s use of chemical mimicry, nor the long evolutionary history hinted at by the unusual predator-prey relationship.

“Formica archboldi is the most chemically diverse ant species we know of,” Smith says in a statement. “Before this work, it was just a species with a weird head-collecting habit. Now we have what might be a model species for understanding the evolution of chemical diversification and mimicry.”

====== 36 ========

FACIAL RECOGNITION SOFTWARE IS HELPING IDENTIFY UNKNOWN FIGURES IN CIVIL WAR PHOTOGRAPHS

A new facial recognition application pioneered by computer scientist and historian Kurt Luther peers into the past—specifically the American Civil War—to identify anonymous portrait sitters captured in thousands of photographs taken over the course of the bloody four-year conflict.

As Erica X. Eisen reports for Slate, Civil War Photo Sleuth (CWPS) is a three-pronged collaboration launched in August by Luther and his Virginia Tech students; editor Ron Coddington of Military Images; and Paul Quigley, director of the Virginia Center for Civil War Studies. The project, as Luther detailed in a 2017 article for Military Images, features a digital photo archive, research tools and a thriving online community.

Users can contribute their own images from personal collections or upload snapshots spotted in books, museums, cultural institutions, shops and miscellaneous sites across the world. These photographs then join thousands held in national and state archives accessible to the public, enabling CWPS to work toward its goal of becoming the world’s largest, most complete digital archive of identified and unidentified Civil War-era portraits.

According to Slate’s Eisen, CWPS’ software identifies up to 27 “facial landmarks” in every uploaded photograph. If participating sleuths want to learn more about a certain mystery figure, they can narrow down their search by filtering images for details such as unit rank and insignia (colonels fighting for the Union side, for example, wore distinctive shoulder straps with an eagle), photographer details, and inscriptions. Once the system gathers all known information, it cross-references the image with all of the photos in CWPS’ database (which includes 15,000 reference images already identified) to present potential facial matches and, if known, names.

Writing for Military Images, Luther says that the array of facial landmarks used to compare photographs enables CWPS to find matches even if a soldier’s facial hair changes or an existing snapshot captures him from a different angle. This feat is made all the more impressive by the limitations of Civil War images. By the start of the war, photographers were beginning to develop prints from negatives, a delicate process that nevertheless opened up the possibilities of the nascent medium. As Eisen of Slate notes, in addition to the quality and coloring of these images, there were an array of limitations that make it a challenge to identify historical photographs today. Take, for instance, the prevalence of thick beards and mustaches, which could obscure vital facial features.

CWPS has already identified more than 75 photographs and has hundreds more catalogued for eventual identification. The process of identifying unknown figures in Civil War-era photographs requires amateur detectives to draw on an arsenal of tools and skills: As Luther writes in a separate Military Images piece, researchers often augment print resources with a growing body of online data, including genealogical charts, military records and photographic archives, as well as tips offered by burgeoning communities of sleuthing enthusiasts.

Luther has set the highly ambitious goal of identifying every photo in the project’s database. While there are numerous difficulties associated with meeting such a goal, Luther embraces the challenge.

In 2013, he successfully tracked down a portrait of Oliver Croxton, his own great-great-great grand uncle. Describing the search in a 2015 column for Military Images, he summed up the mission driving CWPS, saying, “Every discovery has an impact.”

Correction, 11/21/18: This story has been edited to reflect the correct number of photographs that Civil War Photo Sleuth has identified.

====== 37 ========

VANILLA’S FIRST-KNOWN USE CAME 2,500 YEARS EARLIER AND HALF A WORLD FROM WHERE WE THOUGHT

Researchers have long believed that the first people to cultivate vanilla orchids were Mexico’s indigenous Totonac people in east-central Mexico about 1,000 years ago, or perhaps even a little longer. They were conquered by the Aztecs, who learned to enjoy a dash of vanilla in their hot chocolate. The Spanish, it’s believed, went on to import vanilla to Europe after conquering the Aztecs.

That, however, is not the story four small ceramic jugs at Megiddo, an archaeological site in Israel, tell. The jugs were found in an untouched Bronze Age tomb called “Tomb 50,” which dates back 3,600 years. As Bruce Bower at ScienceNews reports, the residue in the jugs contained vanillin and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, the major flavor components in vanilla, along with residue of olive oil. The research was presented by archaeologist Vanessa Linares of Tel Aviv University at the annual meeting of the American Schools of Oriental Research last week.

While those compounds exist in other plants, Linares argues that only vanilla bean pods could have produced the amount found in the Bronze-Age Megiddo concoctions. “This is based on the profuse quantity of vanillin found in the juglets that could have only derived from the abundant amount of vanillin yield from the vanilla orchid pods,” she writes

So how did a product that hails from Mexico’s east coast make it to Israel 3,600 years ago? Well, it didn’t. Vanilla’s history is just as complex as its flavor profile. While cultivation of Mexican vanilla is the only one we know was used in ancient times, there are about 110 species of vanilla orchids in tropical areas around the world. It’s highly possible people had figured out how get a flavor burst from other vanilla species centuries before. Linares suggests that three vanilla species, one from East Africa, one from India or one from southeast Asia could have been in use and made it to the Middle East via trade routes in ancient times.

Archaeologist Eric Cline of George Washington University, not involved in the study, tells Bowers of ScienceNews that since there were no known trade routes between East Africa and the Middle East, he suggests the likeliest source was the V. abundiflora J.J. Sm species from southwest Asia “It’s really not surprising that vanillin reached Bronze Age Megiddo given all the trade that occurred between the [Middle East] and South Asia.”

The real question here, though, is what was the vanilla used for? “Bronze Age people at Megiddo may have used vanillin-infused oils as additives for foods and medicines, for ritual purposes or possibly even in the embalming of the dead,” Linares said in her presentation.

However it was used, the stuff was reserved for the wealthy, according to Amanda Borschel-Dan at The Times of Israel. Even today, vanilla is the second-most expensive spice behind saffron since it is difficult to cultivate and takes nine to 10 months for pods to form. In the Bronze Age, it was probably even more expensive.

That corresponds to the wealth suggestive of the occupants of the tomb it was found in. The burials included a man and woman and an 8- to-12-year-old boy, all of whom were decorated with gold and silver jewelry, an indication of their high-status position in Canaanite society. Six other bodies in the tomb found near the city gate were of lower-status individuals.

Researchers began an exhaustive investigation of the tomb last year, and that is one reason they analyzed the contents of the jugs. “The incredible state of preservation of Tomb 50 offers an important opportunity for comprehensive scientific study of the ancient population and their funerary practices,” Melissa Cradic, the Megiddo excavations expert on Canaanite funeral practices, tells The Times of Israel. “We are studying diet and health, mobility and migration, ancient DNA, organic residues, environment, and issues of identity using the osteological and material remains.”

That’s all well and good, but our minds would truly be blown if the researchers could unearth some evidence of a Bronze-Age vanilla ice cream cone.

====== 38 ========

NEW CATALOGUE DESCRIBES EVERYTHING WE’VE SENT INTO SPACE

The objects, messages and miscellany dispatched from Earth to outer space in hopes of reaching extraterrestrial life paint an eclectic portrait of humanity. On the more conventional side, there’s the 1974 Arecibo message, which famously details scientific concepts ranging from chemical elements to DNA and the numbers one through ten, and the 2008 Message from Earth, which is a collection of 501 text messages, photographs and drawings capturing participants’ lives and ambitions. Comparatively, transmissions such as a 2008 Doritos’ video advertisement, a Star Trek-inspired invitation to an Earth-based Klingon Opera performance and a personal note from Paul McCartney fall on the more unusual end of the spectrum.

Researchers have long had a vague sense of the information released into the universe as a means of introducing humans to our alien counterparts, but a new study published in the International Journal of Astrobiology represents the first comprehensive accounting of every cultural artifact and message beamed into space.

As Paul E. Quast, creator of the catalogue and director of the non-profit Beyond the Earth Foundation, explains to Atlas Obscura’s Sarah Laskow, the assorted data forms both a “fluctuating, artificial field of intelligent design that emanates outwards from our planet” and “the celestial legacy of our civilization beyond Earth’s borders.”

According to the study, the disorganized jumble of information floating around space could lead extraterrestrial intelligence to adopt a slanted perspective of Earth and its inhabitants. It’s possible, for example, that these artifacts and messages present an interpretation of the world lacking culturally and ideologically diverse viewpoints. At the same time, messages offered by different sources could contradict each other, leaving aliens with a conflicted understanding of humanity.

The centralized database may not preclude the emergence of such obstacles, but it does provide scientists with a more complete overview of the image humans hope to present to their extraterrestrial neighbors. As Laskow notes, transmissions encompass everything from “eternal libraries” responsible for storing information off of Earth to art, official cultural outreach initiatives, direct appeals to alien intelligence and symbolic gestures. All entries in the catalogue must have been available in space for a moderate to extended period of time.

Quast himself spearheaded one of the more recent projects, Robin Seemangal writes for The Observer. In 2016, he collaborated with institutions across Europe, Canada, the United States and Asia to create a piece entitled “A Simple Response to an Elemental Message.” The celestial message in a bottle asked participants to address the question of how humans’ current environmental interactions shape Earth’s future and shipped their replies to the North Star, Polaris. Estimated time of arrival, Seemangal notes, is 434 years from departure.

“A Simple Response” shares many similarities with one of the most well-known items on the list, a collection of images and sounds embedded in a so-called “Golden Record” carried by twin spacecraft Voyager 1 and 2. The 115 analog images included photographs of planets, sketches of human bodies at various stages of development and snapshots of daily life across the planet, while the assortment of sounds featured whale songs, chimpanzee screeches, spoken greetings recorded in 55 languages, and a 90-minute musical sample.

As project creative director Ann Druyan told NPR’s Christopher Joyce in a 2017 interview, she and her colleagues disagreed regarding the inclusion of items referencing the Holocaust, the Cambodian genocide and similar examples of humanity’s darker side. Carl Sagan, an astronomer who led the team, argued against it, citing concerns that it would be misconstrued as a threat. Druyan adds, “He wasn't really certain that it would be understood for what it was—an expression of failure and regret on our part.”

Sagan’s argument speaks to the potential problems associated with attempts to reach extraterrestrial life; Laskow writes that it’s possible making contact could generate chaos amongst humans or even prompt aliens to wreak havoc on our world. Still, the collective human experience represented by Quast’s database is significant not only to potential celestial friends or foes, but to mankind itself.

“It’s reflective of how we judge ourselves and our perceived position throughout the universe,” Quast tells Laskow. “It’s quite inward reflecting.”

Entries such as the Arecibo message and the Golden Record certainly offer a more contemplative reflection of humanity, but as the catalogue shows, there’s room for fun, too. Just look to the 20,000 Twitter postings and celebrity videos dispatched by National Geographic in 2012, a six-minute broadcast of a Stephen Hawking speech, and the oddly specific “Poetica Vaginal,” a series of 1986 recordings the catalogue describes as “a series of weak test transmissions of vaginal contraction sounds (translated into text, music and phonetic speech) from ballet dancers.”

====== 39 ========

YOUR CAT’S TONGUE IS A ROUGH, PINK ENGINEERING MARVEL

One day, research engineer Alexis Noel’s cat, Murphy, was blithely licking away—as cats do—when he got his tongue stuck on a microfiber blanket. The cat licked himself free, but Noel was fascinated by the process, and wondered why the feline’s tongue was so good at untangling knots and smoothing out fur. But when she looked at the literature, she realized engineers had more or less ignored the biomechanics of the miraculous pink tongue brush.

That’s why, in a new study in the journal PNAS, Noel and her colleagues sought to untangle the mysteries of cat tongues. A previous study reported that domestic cat tongues are covered in cone-shaped bumps that were used as brush bristles, whereas the Noel’s team found that the protrusions are actually claw-shaped hooks with hollow U-shaped tips.

The bristles lie flat and rear facing when at rest, but when it’s time to get their groom on, the cat pops the spines straight up. The scoops on the bristles’ tips pick up saliva using water tension and distribute the saliva as the cat licks itself. In fact, when the team dripped food dye on the spines, or papillae, they were able to wick up some of the liquid color.

The papillae aren’t just found on domestic cat tongues either. The team was also able to examine the tongues of a bobcat, cougar, snow leopard, tiger and lion. They created 3D scans of the lickers, finding that they all have papillae of similar size and shape, though the big cat tongues have many more spikes on them. Though the papillae are pretty short, the researchers found that even for the big cats they were long enough to comb out fur once. The only exception was the Persian cat, whose tongue papillae just aren’t long enough to deal with their flowing luxurious coats.

It turns out technique matters, too. The team also recorded cats grooming themselves using high-speed video and found that the little tongue spikes rotate when they encounter knots, which allows the cat to work out the tangles and snarls.

Over the course of an entire day of licking, a cat spreads about one fifth of a cup of water across their fur, reports Carrie Arnold at National Geographic. So, why all the grooming? Besides making the kitties look fabulous, thermal imaging showed that keeping their fur well-groomed also created a 30 degree temperature difference between the skin and outer fur as all that saliva evaporated, keeping the cats—which only sweat through their foot pads—cool.

All that awesome engineering inside the cat’s mouth inspired the team to create their own version. Using a 3D printer they created a small tongue-inspired grooming brush (TIGR) that mimics the action of the cat papillae. Frankie Schembri at Science reports that the team believes the brush could be a hit with pet lovers since it mimics the way cats groom. It is could also be used to get medicine directly to the cat’s skin.

Even better, the brush should be able to scrape cat fur off the couch better than your vacuum cleaner.

====== 40 ========

ARE YOU OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE EARTH'S FUTURE?

The Second Opinion roundtable was filmed with a special 360-degree camera. To follow along with the discussion in the video above, use your cursor to click and drag in the direction of the panelist who is speaking or click on the directional arrows in the top left corner of the video player. Unfortunately Safari doesn't support 360 video. Please use Chrome or the Youtube app on an iPhone.

David Skorton: Hello, everyone. Thanks so much for joining us for this first session of Second Opinion, an ongoing series where the Smithsonian is attempting to convene conversations among interesting people with interesting points of view and interesting experiences, on issues that we believe are of national importance. For our conversation today we're going to address an issue that is of concern to all of us and each of us, the state of our planet. Given the impact on the planet, of the rise of the human species, the dawn of agriculture, increasing land and water use, emerging infectious diseases, non-communicable diseases, climate change, species extinction, and other challenges, is there a reason to be optimistic about the future of our planet, and our place on it?

Will our species have the ideas and means, and the will, to successfully adapt to this upcoming era of change, and to alter its course for the better? Here to discuss this question with me is a very esteemed group of interesting people. I'm David Skorton, I'm the secretary of the Smithsonian. And going to my left, I will introduce the different people around here. I'm going to tell you a little bit about how you can learn more about the wonderful work that they've done. I'll tell you that in just a moment. To my immediate left is Denise G. Fairchild, who's president of the Emerald Cities Collaborative. It's a national nonprofit organization working to ensure equity inclusion, while building resilient green and healthy economies.

To her left is Steve Monfort, who is the John and Adrienne Mars Director and chief scientist at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute. And Steve is also the deputy director of the Smithsonian's National Zoological Park. To his left is Mary Evelyn Tucker. She's co-director of the Forum on Religion and Ecology at Yale University, where she teaches in the joint master's program between the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and the Divinity School. Next to Mary Evelyn is Anson Hines, who goes by Tuck, and he's the director of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.

Next to Tuck is Catrina Rorke, who is the senior fellow for energy policy at the R Street Institute, a free-market think tank, advancing solutions to complex public policy problems. And between Catrina and me is Jedediah Purdy, who goes by Jed, professor of law at Duke University, and the author of After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene. Now, I welcome you to dig deeper into the individual works of these panels, which can be found on our Second Opinion website.

Well, thank you very much everyone for being a part of this. And I also want to point out that we have an audience of very interesting people as well all around us. And you will have a chance perhaps to hear some of their questions later on. So, let's start by a quote from Catrina. And this quote that Catrina has written, "The globe is indeed warming, and we are largely responsible."

Well, the Smithsonian Institution a few years ago issued a statement to that same effect, saying, "The global climate is warming as a result of human activities." Yet despite this general overall scientific consensus, there remains continuing need to understand more about the exact details of what the warming of the planet will mean for the world and human civilization, and over what time period.

Tuck, I'm going to throw the first one to you. Tell us a bit about what you see as the challenges ahead, for getting a better understanding of the impact of this undeniable climate change? Tuck?

Tuck Hines: Thanks. It's very clear, the science is very clear, that the planet is warming, and that this is a result of rising carbon dioxide, which has a fingerprint of coming from burning of fossil fuels. There's no doubt about that. The trend for that has been well established and is projected into the future. What's important to understand is the role of science and the uncertainty of the implications for that in our social and economic systems, and the interactions of the many factors that that enormous change to the planet is causing. Interactions with food production systems, with weather, with plant growth, with rising sea level, all of those things vary enormously across the planet, and interact with each other.

And there's a real need for research to understand those interactive factors as an important next step, not in denying the positive direction of the climate warming, but the consequences of that, and how that will play out.

David Skorton: Thanks a lot, Tuck. Speaking of research and studies in the human psyche, there are numerous psychological studies that suggest, and somewhat paradoxically, that the more evidence people see in certain situations that a particular belief they hold is incorrect, the more they may actually dig in and hold on to the idea that that belief is true. Denise, I want to challenge you with this one, if I could? What can you tell us, from your career, are the challenges you've seen getting large groups of individuals, entire societies even, to change their minds about a particular aspect of the world, such as climate change, and further change their behavior?

Denise Fairchild: Well, thank you for the question. Actually, I do believe we're seeing sort of a mind shift, an idea shift happening in America, if not the globe. I mean, to the extent that we have had the Paris Climate Accord, for example, that represents nations around the world, for the first time, recognizing that there is a problem. [Ed. Note: This conversation took place before President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Accord.] That's been 20, 25 years in the make to get to that point, that nation states are recognizing that there's a problem, something to do about it. The fact that we can actually see low-income communities of color ... now, often the environmental movement is seen as a middle-class, white movement. But to this day, all the research points to the fact that low-income communities of color care about, and want to do something about, climate change, even greater than middle-class, white communities.

It means that these are very fundamental issues that people care about. I think what needs to happen at this stage is sort of figuring out, what are the tools that people need to actually make a difference? So people are doing things, like making their homes more energy-efficient. People are moving towards solar energy. Folks are preserving and improving how they conserve water, and they don't turn on their washing machines in the middle of the day, or their dishwashers. So just gradually the knowledge is disseminating across the globe and particularly in the United States, where people are making individual behavioral changes. The thing that I think is a fundamental challenge, however, is looking at the structural causes of climate change, and how we get people to understand that we are part of the problem in terms of mass production and mass consumption.

You talked about greenhouse gas emissions and carbon and the burning of fossil fuels. Well, that's fueled by an economic model that supports an extractive economy in digging up the oils and all the fossil fuels. And the question becomes, how do we get out of the cultural mindset that we have to have more stuff? And we have to produce more stuff, and we have to consume more stuff, that just continues to drive the conditions that cause climate change. That's the fundamental issue, that's the behavioral changes that need to be made at the personal level.

Often the environmental movement is seen as a middle-class, white movement. But to this day, all the research points to the fact that low-income communities of color care about, and want to do something about, climate change, even greater than middle-class, white communities.

—Denise Fairchild

David Skorton: It’s a tall order; it sounds right to me, and I'm sure that we can solve this problem during our discussion.

Denise Fairchild: Absolutely. There's no question.

David Skorton: Following along on to what you mentioned about the role of individuals, some people continue to argue that the U.S. government ... the government itself, the federal government, can and should play a greater role in helping to direct large-scale initiatives for the greater good in a whole variety of areas. Among them building infrastructure, addressing social inequalities, undertaking scientific research. Catrina, you've worked a lot in that area, the interface between individuals and the government, what are the challenges in your observation, in getting governments to address the looming changes ahead? And while you're thinking about that, should any governmental initiative be at the federal level, or should it be at the local level, or state level, or both?

Catrina Rorke: That’s a complicated and maybe loaded question. I think that policies are best designed by people closest to problems. So, in this pending debate over infrastructure spending, we're seeing some contest between who's going to make decisions about how any future dollars get spent. Will it be at the federal level, or are we going to devolve decision-making to the cities? I think it's a nice way of looking at public policy problems generally, because in individual communities we can identify problems that we find to be more pressing much more immediately and with better data and narratives than a federal government could. I do think that finding the right stages of implementation for policy decisions is really important, even for subjects like global climate change, which affect us as a global population, and not individual populations.

But I also think it's important to note that the government is not the root of cures for every public policy problem. Often we find cures in innovations in individual communities, and the creativity of humans is what leads to solutions, not the ingenuity of a bureaucrat. And so one of the things that we work on at R Street is, how do we identify a way to make the footprint of government small enough to allow this intellectual curiosity to lead us to solutions at the same time that we don't ignore significant market failures, where there is a compelling need for government to intercede?

Without answering your question specifically, because I think that would take about six hours of conversation, I think what we're looking at in the subject of climate change, but in these global problems more broadly, is a way to mobilize individuals and communities, and then take that information and do great things with it. Rather than having decisions come from some centralized power.

Government is not the root of cures for every public policy problem. Often we find cures in innovations in individual communities, and the creativity of humans is what leads to solutions, not the ingenuity of a bureaucrat.

—Catrina Rorke

David Skorton: Very, very interesting. And as a lifelong bureaucrat I take that in a very positive sense. I love that title. Following along your line of thinking, it's been suggested over the years that sometimes individuals don't always make the right decision in their own interest, even if that decision is made close to the action. And in the ’60s ... I'm looking around the table here. Some of you may still remember the ’60s perhaps. Tuck, put your hand down. In the ’60s, the ecologist Garrett Hardin, you may remember this, published the essay on the “Tragedy of the Commons,” which has been used in many different areas of endeavor and thought. And he pointed out, for those who are just learning about this, that there are some situations where people, even acting apparently in their own self-interest, will engage in behaviors that in the end collectively affect their own self-interest in the wrong direction, negatively.

And he used as an example shepherds who were having their sheep graze and eventually perhaps overgraze and destroying an area, making it barren, and therefore hurting their own self-interest. You could argue, I suppose, that the current dilemma that we're in, in terms of the climate, is another example of a commons, where people and nations act in their own interest, apparently, but eventually you wind up creating a result that is much worse for them in the end. Jed, I'm wondering if you could tell us what you think are some of the challenges in overcoming this, if it really is under tragedy of the commons, what's your thought on that?

Jedediah Purdy: David, thank you. I think it is a commons tragedy. I think it is the largest and most general that we've ever faced. It threatens to be the commons tragedy that ate the world really. And precisely because it's so global, I think it confounds many of our ordinary expectations about how we ought to address even the most complex problems. Catrina, I think of what you just said about the need for solutions to come from those who are closest to the problem. One of the characteristics, I think, of global climate change is it can often be difficult to see who it is exactly, who is closest to the problem, right, in its various stages and its complex interrelations.

I'd also just say, and one further note of piling on pessimism, before I try to turn a little bit constructive, that it's not just a collective action problem across individuals or across nations in the present, which is clearly right. It's also a commons tragedy across generations. Because each generation can in a narrow, rational sense act in its own interest, while putting the cost of dealing with the consequences of what it's done on those who come after. So in that sense, the people making the decisions are always the ones who can least be counted on to do the right thing. I think of this as pointing in two directions. On one level I want to sort of echo and amplify and generalize what Denise said a little bit ago, about the need for change on the level of behavior and even consciousness. This has to invite an answer where we change our understanding of what problems are ours, you know, and what interests are ours?

One of the things I find hopeful in the history of environmental thought and action is that it's often involved people re-imagining their place in the world. Revisiting the question, who are you connected to? Which problems are yours? Is it in your interest to save something that you can't immediately use? And we think about these questions, we actually live these questions very differently than people once did. That seems hopeful. But I would also say, and I don't think anyone has said the contrary, but I just emphasize, changes of consciousness on the individual level have to be turned into legal and political structures that people can rely on, and live by. That was the conclusion of Garrett Hardin’s famous article that you began with, that we needed what he called mutual coercion, mutually agreed upon, to control access to the commons.

So I think a political expression and reinforcement of a changing consciousness will be equally important.

David Skorton: Thoughts about that? Yes, Mary Evelyn?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: If I could build on that? Thank you.

David Skorton: Please.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: And for these other comments as well. I think this is very critical, because the way I would see it is, we have a great value in the last 200-plus years of Enlightenment thinking, of individualism, liberty, equality and fraternity. But individualism and innovation is terrific, and Catrina, I agree with that. But I think we're also at a point of hyper-individualism, where we haven't really acknowledged what is a community-building way of being in the world? This is one of the great characteristics of humans, we can build communities. So I think we need from individualism to interdependence, independence to interdependence, from equality to equity, about [how] these issues have affected so many people, Native Americans, African-Americans, Latinos out of the picture.

And fraternity, we really need to claim a grounds that says: We are in this together, for children, for inter-generations and so on. And I think that is one of our greatest challenges. That we'll have consequences for structures and politics, but that the individual sphere is, I think, being almost suffocated by hyper-consumption and hyper-individualism. We yearn to be part of something larger, and call to something larger, which is why this conversation is so important.

We really need to claim a grounds that says: We are in this together, for children, for inter-generations. And I think that is one of our greatest challenges.

—Mary Evelyn Tucker

Denise Fairchild: And I would also suggest that this notion of the commons is nothing new. I think this hyper-individualism is something that's only been within the makings of the Western economies, and then we can look to indigenous cultures where the commons was how people lived. We look at our Native American community, for example. They say you make decisions, Jed, to your point, based on seven generations. Two in the past, the current generation, and four generations going forward. Which gives you a sense of the inter-generational nature of this, that we are one, and part of an ecosystem, and we cannot just see ourselves as consuming or producing for me and myself and mine.

But that we are making decisions for the globe. For the part that we have in the entire ecosystem. So, I think there are places that there's a sense of optimism. Places where we can look, cultures that we can look to, that really give us the pathway towards a different kind of way to live in this climate challenge that we're facing.

David Skorton: Very interesting. And is it a practical thing, or do we have a moral obligation, would you say, looking at you, Mary Evenlyn, to think about future generations? Are we just being pragmatic, or is there a moral aspect to it?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Well, pragmatism has its role, for sure. But I think that the moral call, and I know Jed would share this, and many of us here, I think is very profound, and your point to other cultures. I study Confucianism, the oldest ongoing culture and civilization in the world, now in its hyper-development phase. But the idea of Confucianism is, even the character for the individuals is "an individual in relationship" to others. And the idea, even for public service, is you're doing this for the common good. It's a completely different way of being human in the world. And there's a revival of Confucianism for reasons of over-consumption, over-individualism, and a spiritual vacuum. So in short, I think there is a complex multi-faceted moral call at this moment in human history that needs to draw on other cultures, other religions, other peoples and races and so on, to build what I would call a multicultural, but planetary civilization, for the future. I think we can do that.

Jedediah Purdy: If I might just add one note to what Mary Evelyn says, the distinction between pragmatic and moral motivations is useful, but in some ways it's also an artifact of our rather individualistic conception of what it is to act as a person.

David Skorton: These are the points I was hoping you would bring out, and I'd appreciate my other colleagues bringing out points that I'd like you to bring out.

The last thing you just said, thinking about the planet broadly, I'd like to talk a little bit about species beyond the human species. It's been suggested that one of the biggest impacts of climate change, some of the things that Tuck said we have to pay attention to, is the growing extinction of other species around the globe. Steve, you have spent a very distinguished career working in this area, but for those of us who haven't thought about this, why worry about it? Why does a diverse population of animals or plants matter to us or to the Earth in general?

Steve Monfort: I think it's a great question. I often, since climate change came onto the horizon over the last decade or so, and was in front of everybody's mind, it sort of cast a pall, I think, over everyone feeling there's this sense of gloom-and-doom, and what can I do about the climate? What can I do about the atmosphere, and so forth?

But there's another effect, and the effect has been that all of the funding, a lot of the attention shifted away from biodiversity and functioning ecosystems to now a sense of "What do we do about the climate?" I guess I feel there's a very likely chance that ultimately, humans will figure out the climate situation. It will eventually be solved. It's an existential problem. And if, say it's solved and we do that, but then we turn around and say, "What happened to the biodiversity? Where's everything gone?" And the reason it matters is because everything we require as a species is derived in some way or another from biological diversity. And for that I mean things like the air, and water and food and fuel and fiber, and all of these things.

The conservation community has been trying very hard to make an economic case for "What are the benefits, nature's benefits," and this sort of thing. And there's certainly a good case to be made for that. The fact is, our society would collapse without biodiversity. We wouldn't continue to survive. But there are other elements of biodiversity that provide us with value, and that's everything from spiritual and cultural value to entertainment, to all of these sorts of things. Most of us, if I make the argument to a politician, I say, "You care about prosperity and security, and those sorts of issues, well then you should care about biodiversity." But if I ask most people, I think there's an innate connection people have with nature. I don't think you can separate, you shouldn't separate humans, from biodiversity. We're part of that.

So there's this part of being human that is tied to biodiversity, and to the Earth and to nature and the sense of wildness that we think or hope that exists in the world. And so I think there's an idea maybe we could manufacture our way through an absence of biodiversity. We could use all kinds of new engineering technologies and do something, but what would our life be like? What would the quality of the human experience be like without biodiversity?

So, I think there's different arguments you can make. Fundamentally, though, I think it's more than just the economic argument. There's an intrinsic value in nature that sometimes gets ignored. In the conservation community, people are arguing with one another. Should we save nature because of its economic value in a landscape of "in the Anthropocene" or is there a place for just nature as an intrinsic right? Do all other living things on Earth have the right to exist and to function without human interference or damage?

It matters from across the spectrum, but I worry that we forget biological diversity. This idea that we're going to bring back species from the dead that are extinct, and so on, it's mostly a fantasy. So, we need work at both fronts. Let's fix climate change, work on that, but at the same time let's not lose these functioning ecosystems that humans require for their survival.

I don't think you can separate—you shouldn't separate—humans from biodiversity. We're part of that.

—Steve Monfort

David Skorton: I think some earlier point that you were making about indigenous cultures living that philosophy every day is very important.

Steve Monfort: There was something else that was being discussed before. When you talk about individuals trying to take action and do things, most people that I've been talking to, we are increasingly bludgeoning them with gloom-and-doom, and we're not giving them any solutions. They keep saying, "What can I possibly do?" Well what challenge, if you talk about the atmosphere, what more ephemeral thing are you asking people to do? They can make a choice. You can do all kinds of things personally, but at some level, I feel the right to a functioning atmosphere, clean air, somebody said recently, "To me, that's a basic human right. Clean air and clean water and food, those to me should be basic human rights."

What are we going to do about maintaining those rights? There needs to be some role for the regulatory state, for governments. I think of California. They just went through their drought, and so they had mandatory water restrictions, and everybody went along with that because they knew, you run out of water we're in big trouble. California is also an example of how they've regulated emissions. They've just said, "You're not going to have a car here in this state unless it meets these requirements."

So I do think there's both individual action, but also governments have to act for the benefit of everyone. So I think it's both. You have to have individual choice, and you have to have good governance and good decision-making.

Bill McDonough was at the Earth Optimism Summit and he said, "CO2 is the pollutant, and it's going into the atmosphere, and how would you think that people in Flint, Michigan, would feel if you said, 'You have lead in your water and it's at 100, let's say, units, and we're going to reduce it down to 40.' Would you feel good about drinking water that only has 40 parts of lead in it instead of 100? It's the same way with the atmosphere and carbon dioxide." Anyway, if people looked at CO2 as a pollutant that was affecting their health, they might think of it differently.

David Skorton: In the late '50s, the environment in Los Angeles was tough. As an asthmatic kid, there were many days where they said kids shouldn't go out to play, and so on. And a lot of changes were made predominantly through state-level regulations, although there was of course the Clean Air Act.

I stepped in front of you Jed, who wants to say something, but I can't resist asking Catrina where she comes on this issue, because threading that needle of how much to bring in regulation, how much to use a carrot and stick and so on, how much should be relegated to individuals, municipal, state, versus federal? It's one that we don't agree on as a country, and I'm curious, Catrina. Then I promise, Jed, I'll stop stepping on your minds and let you come in.

Catrina Rorke: I think that we've touched on two parts. This sort of individual call to action, "What can an individual do," and "What can the government do?" I think this individual conversation is a really important one to have about how you feel like you participate in your community, however broadly you might define it. But everybody on Earth taking shorter, colder showers is not going to solve climate change.

And then you can look at government policy, and government policy is maybe this opposite mechanism that dictates which actions are preferable or not allowable. Those instruments can be helpful. You can adapt them in a variety of ways, like market mechanisms to reduce acid rain were obviously quite helpful, and came in at a relatively low cost for all the achievements we made.

But between those two is the marketplace. And every day, trillions of decisions are made in the marketplace. And right now, the vast majority of them don't think about climate change as a problem. They don't think about global problems as a problem. When you buy a pack of gum, you're not thinking about the supply chain. When you take the bus, you're not thinking about "Was this bus manufactured according to the values that I hold?" So we're in a marketplace where we're making decisions without accounting for these problems, and that marketplace itself can be constrained, not necessarily by the individual side, but by the government side. And we're seeing that right now.

So, I do a lot of work with distributed generation, and that policy is largely set at the state level. And there are very many states that don't allow people to produce electric power on their roofs and then sell it to market, or won't allow a company, like let's say a big box store like a Walmart or a Target, to cover their roofs in solar panels and profit that way. That's a government policy problem.

So we know that companies want cheap power. We know that that technology exists, and yet public policy stands in the way. And so I think that we need to maybe step back and consider when we're thinking about public policy strategies to combat any number of problems, what's the natural limit of what public policy can do? And how do we sort of induce the marketplaces that we would prefer, by mobilizing individual action and collective action? I think that we leave this part out too often, and that we count on sort of individual compunction or the power of the state, when the reality is that the solutions always come from somewhere in the middle. How do we mobilize those solutions, I think, is a really interesting public policy to do.

David Skorton: I interrupted Jed then. And then we'll come to you next.

Jedediah Purdy: Generous of you, thanks. I just wanted to add to what Steve was saying, 'cause it was so engaging. The importance of other species, I think, goes to very deep questions about what could make life on Earth worthwhile, if we move away from ever accelerating accumulation and growth. There's this passage in Walden where Thoreau asks, "What greater miracle could there be than to look through each other's eyes, just for a moment?" Think of how true that is as between human beings and other species.

We're just beginning to understand what kinds of consciousness, what kinds of experience, what kinds of language and culture and memory we coexist with all over the world. And I think if we return ever to something that has more elements of certain kinds of traditional and indigenous practices, it will be through our increasing both scientific and cultural understanding of how many other kinds of consciousness we live here with, and how we can relate to them. We don't even understand what we're losing, in that sense. We're just beginning to understand it as it disappears. And it's not just a whole other world, it's dozens of hundreds of worlds that are coexisting here in our world.

We don't even understand what we're losing (in biodiversity). We're just beginning to understand it as it disappears. And it's not just a whole other world, it's dozens of hundreds of worlds that are coexisting here in our world.

—Jedediah Purdy

David Skorton: Yeah, it's very very true. Denise, do you have something?

Denise Fairchild: This is a great conversation, and we could go on forever, but I do want to talk about the role of government, because I do believe the role of government is critical for mediating the climate change environment and helping individuals as well as markets perform and behave better. It's very clear that regulation is just one tool that government has to move markets, but the other, I think, is that it incentivizes markets to perform and to innovate, and to bring into the marketplace ways to think about bringing new technologies to the forum.

To the extent that today, because of investment and because of research and development, and new climate change technologies, we're seeing that renewable energy is cheaper than coal. I mean the business case now for renewable energy is clear, and the fossil fuel economy is struggling. I talk to our utility friends all the time. They said they were in an existential crisis. They know it. They have to figure out how to make the shift, because the bottom line is profit. The technologies are there and it's now profitable to go renewable.

So government has a role to incentivize the market to perform in different kinds of ways.

I'm also seeing, Catrina, the local communities like in Florida this last November election, where it's a very conservative environment that says "We want distributive energy." At the end of the day, they beat back state legislation advanced by utilities to prevent distributive energy. And the folks in that community says "No. We want state regulations." So even in a conservative setting, we're seeing the need for regulations and the desire for regulations in local communities.

And the last thing I'd say about that is "shareholders." I see, actually, the market performing very well and big business really clearly trying to improve their business services, their business products and practices to address sort of this new sense for having sort of a clean economy. And shareholders are looking at this from a risk analysis basis. "What's the risk if we don't fix climate change, and what profits are at risk in this sense?" So I do see that government has a role, and I do see the market is stepping into that role in a very proactive way, incentivized by government.

Tuck Hines: I agree with that. I think that there is a lot of opportunity for the broader standards to be arrived at by community, by government, but individuals will behave in their own best interests, and there's a diversity of interests out there, so the collective interface of that is important, of those differing opinions and values and wants and desires and solutions.

But there is a business approach. Business is not always the problem. It can also solve problems. It's a powerful force, and everybody needs to make a living. So the question is, can those be done in a way that's consistent with, and incentivized to, solving the problems. I think there are many examples of that. Certainly, renewable energy is a great example of that. But there are lots and lots of others.

David Skorton: Other thoughts you have, Mary Evelyn?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Well this is a great discussion, and I appreciate the differing points of view. I want to come back, Jed thinks in this philosophical way, and I think with the world religions, a complement. And we've talked about ethics and so on, and you've said so beautifully, Steve, about how we value species not only in our own self-interest. Ecosystem services has developed a huge following, and partly because it's trying to speak to the market. You know it's very pragmatic. What's the value of the wetlands, and so on and so forth.

I love that you say we need intrinsic value. It's part of this conversation, and that means for species, clearly. It means for ecosystems, clearly. It means for what is a commons, and a common good. What I would suggest that we're in this exciting transition where we actually don't have a fully developed sense of ethics—the world's religions, by and large, apart from indigenous traditions as we've mentioned. My husband is a student of indigenous religions. But we don't have an ethics that is up to the task. So our cultures need to expand.

There's movements, of course, for environmental ethics, for eco-ethics, there's even a cosmological ethics, to say if we're part of the stars, that this whole universe and Earth system is something we've come out of and are responsible to. So I just wanted to put that into the conversation because I think it's a very exciting, creative, cultural opportunity to expand our thinking, expand our consciousness.

And certainly, there's parallels with environmental law. Thomas Barry, our teacher, was working on Earth jurisprudence. How do the rights of nature come into this? And I'll just end by saying it's quite astonishing that several rivers have been given rights of humans, including in New Zealand, thanks to the work of Maori and others, and two of the most sacred rivers in India. The Yamuna and the Ganges River now have rights as humans. So I think we're in this exciting moment of expansion of an ethical and moral sensibility that's grounded in the science that gives us that sense of the intricacy of ecosystems.

We're in this exciting transition where we actually don't have a fully developed sense of ethics ... So our cultures need to expand.

—Mary Evelyn Tucker

Denise Fairchild: Could I, David, ask a question?

David Skorton: Please. Anything.

Denise Fairchild: To what extent is religion, Christianity, particularly a part of the problem, in terms of how the Bible has said it's the rights of man to basically dominate, extract, exploit the environment. Is that real…

Mary Evelyn Tucker: It's not!

Denise Fairchild: Or is it not, you know?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Such an important question. Part of this human-centered and "dominion" idea in Genesis. I would suggest, and this is what we've been trying to evoke, midwife, birth, a larger sensibility, if you will, among the world's religions, that says all of these traditions have changed over time.

They have expanded their understandings of their scriptures. So in the mid ’90s, we did conferences on all the world's religions, to begin to evoke this sense that "What are views of nature? What are environmental ethics?" And so on. Within Christianity specifically, while it has had this reputation of dominion vis-a-vis Genesis, there are astonishing theologians and ethicists who have moved this way beyond that particular idea. Stewardship, but even more than that, a sense of reverence for these ecosystems and species.

The books have exploded. On our website, the Forum on Religion and Ecology, there are statements of all the world's religions on this, but in particular, Christianity has opened the doors, I would say widely.

David Skorton: I want to think a little bit more about this communication. One thing that has been implied in the recent give-and-take we've had is interface between science and non-science areas. And Tuck will be surprised that we're going to quote from Sean McMahon, a scientist who works at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, which Tuck so ably leads. This is a quote from Sean: He said "It is sometimes more effective to convey an idea to society with art rather than with science."

I think it's true that visual art, performing arts, arts of all kinds, can connect in sort of a visceral way that sometimes just the presentation of facts doesn't get across. And so I want to throw this out to anybody and everybody in the panel. What are the challenges in leveraging what I'll call "culture"? Arts and other kinds of cultural uses to help people better understand the changes that are underway. What are the obstacles in getting a cultural message out? Not any particular cultural message, but messages in general. Any thoughts about this?

Denise Fairchild: Well I would just say that part of what I hope we're building is a movement. It's an environmental movement, it's a climate change movement. It's going to radically change how we live and what we value. And if you look at other movements, as in civil rights movement of the ’60s, and yes, I was around. I was one of those around at that period that culture was very critical to building and sustaining and growing the movement. It was freedom songs. It was the Black Arts movement at that time, in terms of the poets, the artwork, it was what actually energized people and gave them a sense of hope, as opposed to being pessimistic in the face of challenges, that it is the art, the culture, the music, that breeds life into the possibilities for change. And so I think it's a very critical part of a climate change movement to bring our artists and our culture into communicating values and ideas that are hard to dissect through scientists.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: I think there's no question, just building on that, that the arts are, I think, going to be one of the greatest change agents that we have. Music. I just wanted to bring back in … Paul Winter has done an earth mass at the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine. The animals come in. He's been doing this for 30 years. Thousands of people come to this. He also does a celebration of winter and summer solstice. It's extraordinary. The arts, we've got Andy Goldsworthy and many people doing amazing things. Film. The Environmental Film Festival here in the nation's capital, and we have one at Yale. We did a film on Journey of the Universe to tell the story of science for a larger audience, that evokes wonder and awe. I think we've got tremendous potential here, with the arts.

Tuck Hines: Art is often talked about as something over there that's on the wall or performed on stage. But I look at it more as it's our interaction with the environment. Architecture is a form of art.

[The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center] just got done building this fabulous new LEED Platinum building, only LEED Platinum building that the institution has. But you walk in, and the first thing that strikes you is not that it's so energy-efficient, and it has all these water cycling systems. But it's a fabulous building, and we put as much thought into the psychology of how that building was designed to promote the science and the teamwork that we do, and how it links to the outdoors, and all the functioning systems that are supporting in that as a continuum.

So landscape architecture and architecture, and the environmental interactions that we have around us, to me that's as important as the art that's on the wall. We have those things. Even some of our scientists do art. But it's an interactive thing, with us and the environment, and that's what motivates people in their daily lives as well.

Jedediah Purdy: I think that's just exactly right. There's this arresting passage late in Otto Leopold's classic work Sand County Almanac where he says, "The purpose of conservation policy is to breed a consciousness and a way of seeing that can appreciate the world in a new fashion." That is to say, our land use policy, our agriculture policy, our energy policy, they all have aesthetic and even moral dimensions. They shape the landscape and they shape the terms of experience where people will learn to relate to and value the landscape.

Steve Monfort: Environmental folks or people working in science usually have some innate interest in nature, so I've always thought there was very little separate between art and science, at least in the environmental sciences. And we all go to a place that we have some spiritual reaction. When I was young, we went to Yosemite every year. That's, to me, it's like a cathedral. It was an experience that I had that was very impactful. But when I try to remember it, I'm never going to remember it better than Ansel Adams' photographs, or I'm never going to probably visualize birds better than Audubon painted them, or talk about nature better than Thoreau.

And so, to me, those are ways for me to remember and to heighten my remembrance and how I value that in my consciousness. And so, those are touch-points for me. So when I see art that's about nature, it reinforces for me this intense emotional feeling that I have arrived. So I think it's a very powerful thing.

Catrina Rorke: I think art also has the power to tell many different stories at once, right? So, the Environmental Film Festival is a great example. You know, half of the movies could be about a changing climate, but from completely different perspectives!

And I think it helps us weigh how complex what we're trying to impact might be. It helps us approach complicated problems in a way that's relatable. And helps us, I hope, make individual choices, and collective choices so that we can gain a better perspective on what happens outside our own backyards. Yeah.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: I just wanted to mention ... Maybe you [Secretary Skorton] could comment, because you ... that environmental humanities within academia have really exploded on many campuses. We have over 100 classes on environmental humanities, across history and literature and the arts and film, and so on. And I think you've also worked on this with STEM and humanities.

David Skorton: Yeah, I mean Yale's been a great benchmark for the whole academic community in this regard. But if you look backwards in the world of higher education and learning in general, these disciplinary separations are relatively recent. And acquisition of knowledge and exploitation, and so on, whether for practical purposes or just to learn, used to be much less disciplinary and much less divided.

And it's true that there's a little reversal going on now. More and more educators around the country are seeing integration of the STEM disciplines and non-STEM disciplines; I feel it's important. But I want to keep the heat on you guys.

That was a nice try. That was a nice try.

I want to just go back a little tiny bit to the energy issue that was brought up about distributive energy and different technologies. Really on the way to asking a different question. Someone asked the question at the top of this little explanation, and asked it again at the end.

Many of us interact with technologies of various kinds. And these days, we live our lives, a lot of it connected to technology. And there's almost an intrinsic assumption that technology will save us, from whatever dilemma we're going to have.

And so, there's plenty of reason that people feel that way. One example, in the middle of the 19th century, there was a rising concern about whale oil becoming scarce. That was used then to light lamps to light your home. And eventually human ingenuity led us to petroleum products, and then now these newer forms of energy and so on.

And when you think about creating energy for the future, and adapting to potentially large shifts, and many of the problems that we're talking about today. Innovative new technologies is one of the first things that we always bring up.

And so the question is, now, I don’t mean this to sound negative, or cynical, but can we invent our way out of this dilemma? There's two points of view. One point of view is population will get to a certain size, Tuck and I talked about this before, and will reach some sort of limit to our ability to adapt.

And the other point of view is that technology will, and ingenuity, let's put a more general term, will allow us to make some changes. Where do the panelists fall on that issue? Can we invent our way out of this set of problems? Anybody? Everybody?

Catrina Rorke: I totally believe so.

David Skorton: You believe so.

Catrina Rorke: Yeah, so, the global 2000 report in the Carter administration talked about this super bleak future. About resource scarcity, and abundant poverty, and a polluted environment. And you'd think that heading into the year 2000 meant a total global collapse, and that's not what happened! So this Malthusian perspective, that people may be a burden to one another, that we could reach some sort of carrying capacity and the world will collapse around us, that idea has been presented many times.

And I think the data that we collect suggests that humans are not a burden, that we're not going to reach a carrying capacity. That our capacity for innovation actually allows humans to be ever more productive. Which is why population continues to increase, and not collapse. It's because every generation we can add more.

And so, when we think about the policy problems that we're looking at today, we can look at them as technology problems.

David Skorton: Mm-hmm

Catrina Rorke: And we have confidence. And we can see right now that we're innovating our way around them.

So whether it be the propagation of disease, well not only have we developed the medication to treat diseases tremendously, but we've developed aggressive supply chains that helped get medication out into communities that need it more quickly.

That's human innovation, that's not some gift of nature. And so we need to think about how humans have the capacity to innovate, and how we definitely have the impetus to innovate if we're looking at a collective problem like climate change.

Even if we don't want to solve climate change, the things that we're innovating right now are helping us find our way around that problem.

Because what we want is cheaper, more local forms of energy, and we're finding that. What we want is to feel like we're more sort of in a spiritual balance, and not consume aggressively, right? The minimalist movement is moving across the United States like wildfire. I think everybody has Marie Kondo's book now.

And so, this idea, that humans can't solve a problem that we're presented with? I think we have no data for that. Humans are marvelous at treating problems, especially aggressive problems like this, quite well. That's why agricultural productivity is up. It's ... I don't know, that's why we're going to solve the climate challenge.

This idea, that humans can't solve a problem that we're presented with? I think we have no data for that.

—Catrina Rorke

David Skorton: You know, I have to just jump in on this one. When you talk about infectious diseases, which is such a very interesting sort of cyclical problem, I remember when I was a med student, a long time ago in the ’70s, that we were talking a lot about non-communicable diseases. Heart disease, and cancer.

And one of our infectious disease professors at Northwestern said, "We'll invent a better mousetrap, and nature will invent a better mouse." And that was before, just at the very beginning of the recognition of HIV, before Ebola. So, I go back and forth.

Much of my life I lived thinking exactly what you said is right. But then I think eventually those cycles may unwind in a way that we can't come to. But it's a ... but I hope you're right.

Others have a point of view on this?

Denise Fairchild: I don't think ... I think technology is a tool, but I don't think it's going to get us out of our climate challenge.

David Skorton: Not even these 360-cameras like this?

Denise Fairchild: Great, great tools, toys. They're not tools, they're great toys.

You know, because, when you look at energy, for example. We use technology to invent, you know, steam engines. But we've used renewable wind and solar energy, we had those in the beginning. And we used and created fossil fuel technologies that got us into the place where we are today.

And we are now going back, and to your point, to the sort of renewable technologies that we had in the beginning. The only reason why fossil fuel technologies advanced, for cars and other things, is because there was a greater market opportunity to accumulate wealth and to make money off of this.

And so, I believe that it is an ethical challenge that we're facing. I do believe we're two-and-a-half times past carrying capacity in the earth. That we cannot continue to produce and consume at the level that we are now. We have not realized the full impact, we're starting to! In terms of the extreme weather conditions in California. [Secretary Skorton], you’re from California, the drought conditions and the loss of our water aquifers just totally destroying agricultural opportunities.

I've met farmers who're coming east looking for land to grow food because it's an issue. However, we do have aquaponics and hydroponics. We're finding some tools to help solve, to mediate, to mitigate some of the problems, but I don't think it's going to solve the climate change.

David Skorton: Other thoughts about this one?

Denise Fairchild: Unless we change our economy and change the ethics behind it.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Steve you had your hand up, I'll go after you.

Steve Monfort: Yeah, I mean, I'm actually more optimistic about, I'm not a climate change expert, but it does seem to me, we know what that problem is, where there are alternatives that people can be using. And frankly if there was more consensus or action around policy, we probably would be on our way to making the change that's needed.

But technology in itself is also a risk if people become disconnected with nature. And I think that's a huge issue with our generation, the up-and-coming generations. It's the ... you can't do conservation from a satellite. I mean, and a cellphone. And this idea that you can substitute that for going out in the field and discovering biodiversity and understanding how those systems function? Those can't be done by robots, or, human beings, working with their hands, in the field, need to be doing that.

And people are not going to protect—it sounds cliché—but what they don't love and don't understand. So young people who don't have perspective of what nature is, or don't have that opportunity. And in the West, we ought to have that opportunity, we're wealthy enough to do that.

I can understand how children in underdeveloped countries might not have the same privilege. But I see, or I think people are too reliant on quick fixes through technology and it makes them complacent. And not dealing with the immediate threats to biodiversity that we can solve right now. We definitely know what’s causing biodiversity loss, and it's also us.

And it's habitat fragmentation and pollution, invasive species and disease, and so forth. We know there's also known solutions for those. Technology's not going to fix our consumption patterns or behaviors about over-extraction of rare resources, for example.

So I think there's a role for technology, genomics is a great example, you know, it's a great tool. But in and of itself, it's not going to solve anything. It's just a tool that we need to use in a bigger way.

But technology in itself is also a risk, if people become disconnected with nature. —Steve Monfort

Mary Evelyn Tucker: I agree. Just briefly, I think that technology is necessary, but not sufficient, which is what I think we're all saying. The power of human creativity, I think, is what Catrina is trying to put into the mix, here. The creativity has many expressions. And it needs to pay attention to equity issues. It needs to pay attention to inclusivity. This is human creativity, too. And I would just conclude, a very complex discussion here, but by saying -- part of, I think, our American technology, our know-how, our can-do attitude, which is very pragmatic, and so on, has no sense of limits. There is no precautionary principle in our thinking, or in our agencies here.

Why is it that the [European Union] has precautionary principles about a whole range of things, including what food goes in and out, and so on? So, I think technology as a solution alone is a misplaced notion, but especially without a precautionary principle. What are the implications for these technologies that we're releasing?

Technology as a solution alone is a misplaced notion, but especially without a precautionary principle. What are the implications for these technologies that we're releasing?

—Mary Evelyn Tucker

Tuck Hines: Every other species and population responds to Malthusian principles of limitation on the earth. So, it's, the question then becomes, are humans totally different from every other species? Or are we subject to some limits of growth, at some point?

The question of whether technology, or innovation, can solve the problems that we're facing with is a somewhat different question. But at the grossest level, there's only so many square meters on the planet, and if everybody's standing on all those square meters, then you’ve got a problem that technology isn't going to solve.

So it may be that technology will get to the point where it's acknowledging and solving a way to live within those limits, but it isn't scientifically, I will say, possible for an infinite growth of the human population on the planet.

We can see that those limitations are starting to impact us, and there are new solutions coming along to some of those, absolutely. Renewable energies could very easily meet some of the challenges that we're seeing. And we see, I think, at Steve's Earth Optimism Summit that we participated in, there was a guy that said, you know, "Back in the Stone Age, we didn't run out of rocks before we left the Stone Age behind." We moved on, you know, to a new technology. And I thought that was pretty amusing.

But on the other hand, if you project the current rate of population growth on the planet. And every civilization, actually, that is in this, has actually started to level off, because of advanced technology. So the concept that Malthusian limitations and technology and economic, the concept that economic models require, always growth, to be successful, are not necessarily at odds with each other, if you look at a larger view in life.

David Skorton: Jed, last thought on this?

Jedediah Purdy: I would just add that when we ask whether we can expect to solve problems, prospectively, we run the incidental risk of forgetting that we're already an ongoing catastrophe, for the planet, in so many dimensions. It's not as if we've succeeded so far, and we can expect to continue to succeed.

We don't need whale oil anymore, but many of the whales are still substantially gone and depleted. Just to come back to your original example, and that's almost the least of it. So we don't just have preventative work to do, we have reparative work to do, as well.

When we ask whether we can expect to solve problems, prospectively, we run the incidental risk of forgetting that we're already an ongoing catastrophe for the planet.

—Jedediah Purdy

David Skorton: Anybody, any thoughts on the one biggest challenge?

Jedediah Purdy: Yeah.

David Skorton: Jed?

Jedediah Purdy: I think we need to find a way of redefining what wealth is. And to put a new conception of wealth and well-being at the center of a revised understanding of what markets are and what relation they have to our other modes of organizing collective life.

Denise Fairchild: Yeah, I would agree with Jed, in sort of following the ideas of Naomi Klein, where she talks about, this says everything about the economy and how we define wealth and prosperity as being central to this. And understanding, I think, also, Steve's point, about the intrinsic value of nature, but more even advance that further, to understand the intersectionality of nature and how we are a part of nature. That we are a part of nature, not separate from it. And that the intersection of environment, economy, and even our social issues, are all intertwined, and that the solutions has to be holistic, integrated, comprehensive. That's a big challenge.

David Skorton: It's a good one. Steve?

Steve Monfort: Yeah, think it's a matter of providing people with win-win choices, there, that we need to, there need to be, it has to be an opportunity for someone to make a good choice as a consumer, let's say. For a product, whether it be a car, or something else they need to live or the food that they buy. We can't expect people to not need those things or want those things. But somehow the market has to be incentivized in some way so that those choices are available. And then people need to be able to make a choice that benefits their livelihoods, their families, and so forth. But that also has a minimal impact on others in terms of things like climate change.

And then people need to exercise their power in making those decisions through their pocket books, but also they need to also at the ballot box. People need to become more, better citizens, with respect to expressing what they want, and making that known to their ... those that we employ to govern us.

And I think it doesn't even have to be activism. It just has to be an increased awareness, and personal responsibility, and expressing that through the choices you make, whether it's in the marketplace or in the ballot box.

David Skorton: Thank you, Mary Evelyn?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Well, I love the point that Jed made about well-being. And I think that's certainly key to what we're all talking about. And I would just make two suggestions, if I might, picking up on what my colleagues have just said. That, if we understand, that human economy is a sub-system of nature's economy, that clearly there will be limits that are built into that, that's how an ecosystem works. But it's complex!

And the other part of that is, is again our colleagues have been saying, what is conservation? What is preservation? How do we go back to some of the great thinkers about this in our own history? And from other traditions and cultures.

But I love this point, that, I would say, it's conservation, preservation, management. But it's also restoration. It's restoration of these ecosystems. And along with restoration of the human spirit. What is it going to mean to redefine our place within these planetary systems? We're the first generation to know we're part of a very complex earth system, 4.6 billion years old! What does that mean for well-being? It's an exciting thing to...

David Skorton: Very good point. Tuck?

Tuck Hines: I'm very pragmatic, and I see the rate at which the climate is changing, and the consumption of fossil fuel as an enormous challenge. It's coming at us so fast that there's not a lot of change, not a lot of time to change everybody's ideas about their cultures and their global values, in my opinion.

We have 50 years, or something like that, the inertia of that change, and the climb at the rate of the oceans, for example, just one of the energy and warming, the expansion of those consequences, are impacting all the coastal cities of much of the population of the world.

And so I think the biggest challenge is to get using economic incentives, with scientific understanding, to shift our economies off of fossil fuels and onto renewable energies. And at as fast a possible pace as possible. Or the inertia of the system of this giant planet that we're on will overcome us.

David Skorton: Catrina?

Catrina Rorke: So, I'm gonna maybe throw a bone in the mix and say that maybe our biggest challenge is perspective. So we haven't yet done a lot of talking about the challenges between the developed and the developing world in addressing climate change. But we do know that climate change is not the only problem we're facing.

And we do know that some mechanisms of solving the climate challenge might actually be counterproductive to solving other challenges in the developing world.

And I think that's a conversation that is a subset of this broad conversation that we're having now, that we've failed to have in a constructive way at the global level. And I hope that it’s one that we can have, that it's not taboo to contextualize climate change against other problems that we're facing. And try to devise solutions that help us address more than one thing at the same time.

David Skorton: So I'm going to put my vote in for the biggest challenge. It's somewhat related to Catrina's comment and in part to Jed's comment. I think the biggest challenge is the attitude that we don't need to learn anymore. That we know everything we need to know, and we're just going to argue it through from our various points of view.

And I worry that we may fail to invest in research, of a broad variety of types. Not just scientific research, not just technological research. Research of the kind that would help answer the question that Catrina raised.

Now I'd like to give a chance to our audience members to ask any questions. You don't have to ask questions, you can ask questions, you don't need to, but you could. And you can see that this is a fairly friendly group. They've failed to go after each other, so.

Questions, please?

Ahyende' Gray, Smithsonian Center for Learning and Digital Access: So, I have a question. It's mostly for basically all of you, because you all kind of touched on like y'all messages that's been given to. So let me be blunt with it: We all, as a human race, we have to like get past the third-dimensional thinking.

It's like everything is here for us with like, we got the tools to do it, we just have to look at it from a different perspective. Ants for example, they work together on a level we overlook and not really understand. There's certain things that they do. And it's like little stuff that escalates like the eyes we have, the cosmos stuff like that, offers a form of communication. And so I feel as though we have like Earth is just one small part of what God has created as far as like us, 'cause you know, it's all atoms, and mass, so, we all coming from like one direct source, and it's like, we got dimensions.

And right now we at a low dimension and the higher dimension will be sent from different perspectives. Certain higher levels, certain individuals, function like animals, we got the technology to watch these creatures, and stuff, and see how they like get, use the technology to get more insight on what they are doing, instead of worrying about the other stuff that's not going to help benefit earth and its evolution. 'Cause I feel as though celestial messages come down to other people when we give them our sole mission to do stuff and sort of, I don't want to get too deep on you but that's all I have to say.

David Skorton: Appreciate that, Ahyende’, and I think for those who couldn't hear that, Ahyende raises a point about the greater context in which we're living our lives and in which we're receiving challenges and messages. And appreciate your perspective on that. Anybody have any comments on that at all?

Denise Fairchild: Well I think I was also hearing a solution. You were defining a problem, but I think you were also telling us what the solution is to be resilient. Right?

Ahyende' Gray: Can I add on one thing, excuse me. Because I forgot, I didn't mention what I was supposed to say in the first part. But it's like, so we have religions and stuff. So we all come, so it's just like the animals, they come from different environments so they have different perspectives on how they see things and I feel as though religion is just a way of how we see things, and the experiences we're given. So music ties into that…

Denise Fairchild: Well, again, I'm challenged by religion and the perspectives that it provides us in this conversation. But I do see, looking at nature, I think as you were saying. How nature functions is the beginning of how we need to be resilient. And I'm not a natural resource person, so I almost look to Steve to answer the question about nature, understanding its interdependence. And how to be resilient. And seeing how it operates in an ecosystem where it survives and it understands its threats and it knows how to mitigate those threats. And how we need to, in terms of our solution, be more like the animals. And to be one in nature with the ecosystem. And find a way to be interdependent, to be more resilient.

David Skorton: Thank you, thank you, Ahyende', for the thought. Other thoughts or questions, from the audience?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Can I just make a response here quickly?

David Skorton: Yes, please.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: I think maybe what I'm also hearing, but I want to hear more. It's my view, religions have their problems and their promise. But, if what I'm hearing from you, one of the ways we're trying to interpret religions, is these are systems that have embedded peoples in ecosystems for millennia. Rituals are done in relation to specific places, directions, water, the elements, et cetera. So we call them, actually religious ecologies. See, where humans have done this over centuries, Native Americans, indigenous peoples. But, all religions have had that sense. And their rituals are winter solstice, Christmas, Easter, connected to celestial movements and thought. So I think the question is to raise up ... OK, how have cultures actually tried to relate to ecosystems, and how can we do a better job, you see, that's the challenge.

David Skorton: Thank you, yes, you had a comment.

Sebastian Tayac, Fellow, Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage: Yes, it actually has a lot to do with what you just said. Again my name is Sebi Tayac representing the Piscataway Indian Nation, and the Beaver Clan, and I have to acknowledge that we're on the ancestral land of the Nacotchtank village, which is part of our Piscataway chiefdom. It actually goes a bit back to what you were saying. My uncle, who's the chief of our tribe, when we do ceremonies he tells us that every organism was given its original instructions. No one has to tell a blade of grass how to grow, like you mentioned ants know what to do. Every organism on this planet, and even the larger systems which represent sort of living, cyclical things, like the water cycle, the cycle of rocks, and the cycle of the stars, all follow original instructions. And we say it was given to us by our creator. However you interpret that is up to you, but that humans, we're the tricky ones, because we have strayed and forgotten a lot from our original instructions. We're taught that the closer we get to our culture, walking the red road we call it, the closer we return to the creator's original instructions for us.

So that's the mentality I grew up with. And specifically in this ecology of southern Maryland, what is now Washington D.C., having at least 30 generations of oral history back here. The question I wanted to ask as someone who has been to Standing Rock, as someone who has been fighting the Potomac Pipeline, which is going to be crossing the Potomac River, the Dominion gas compressor station which is located right on our sacred lands. And various other immediate environmental attacks on our people, and all peoples in this area, but particularly low-income, indigenous, and people of color.

I think Standing Rock brought consciousness of the struggle of native people and our Mother Earth, and waters, which we consider to be our livelihoods. We say we come from the river, we come out of it. We flow from it.

And in this round table, in this Smithsonian Castle, in this elite space with a 360-camera and people wearing collared shirts, I see people referencing and talking about indigenous knowledge as part of the solution. And I haven't been alive for very long, but my understanding and given what I've been taught by my mother, my grandparents, and the plight that they went through for our knowledge to be respected and invoked and presented as a possible solution, is something that's very new. It's something that's very radical. So I just wanted to ask before our break here, for the people who have been talking about indigenous ways of understanding the world, indigenous technologies which I think history proves are superior to sustainable living than what we would consider our modern Western technologies. Where did you hear about that? When did you start to take indigenous seriously as a person in your position? As a decision maker, as a person of influence? When did you start to take indigenous knowledge seriously and when you bring it up, what's the image in your mind? Because the image in my mind is my land and what I experienced at Standing Rock. Confronting the state directly. But I want to know for you what's the image in your head when you talk about indigenous ways of living?

David Skorton: I'll take a crack at that first and then open it up to the crew. I appreciate the question, appreciate you being a part of this today. You're bringing up indigenous knowledge and very important issues in a social and political context. Which is more than reasonable. But the direct question that you asked is where did we first begin to say appreciate or invoke, and for me it was during my years at the University of Iowa, and also at Cornell University, where I had the great pleasure of learning from the Native American community there. Cornell is on the Haudenosaunee lands. And I got to know a bit about it, and that's all I know is a bit. I freely admit that. Through people I met who are members of the nations in those areas. From religious things that I read and tried to understand. And then through just discussions like this, about specific problems that then shed some light on a different way of looking at problems. A different way of thinking. So that's where it came to me. Any others wish to?

Denise Fairchild: I've always been culturally rooted, and when I speak of indigenous cultures I look to even my African ancestry and know about from the fact that they, from mother Africa, look at trees as living beings where the elders reside, and how the water and rocks are seen as fully animated. But just a lot of that reading was important. But this movement, this climate change movement in a global context, there's a lot of conversation with respect to our peers in the global south, that are bringing the indigenous cultures and values to the table. And it's a contest, it's a challenge, but it is actually ... There's a huge international conversation taking place and there is a local community, national community here of indigenous folks that are working on climate environmental justice and bringing indigenous knowledge to the table across the different ethnic groups.

David Skorton: Thanks. I'm gonna call our break, because they keep putting a break sign over there. And before I go on break, I just want to remind those out there who may want to know what the URL is to follow us along, because I think what the world needs is more people paying attention to Second Opinion.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Could I answer his question? Would you mind?

David Skorton: Sure.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Only 'cause I think it's so important.

David Skorton: Please, Mary. Please.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: So in the early ’70s, Thomas Barry, our teacher, was teaching classes at Fordham and Columbia on Native Americans. And my husband for his PhD did his thesis on shamanism with the Haudenosaunee and other groups. And then in 1997 we had a large conference at Harvard on indigenous traditions and ecology, bringing people from every continent for this issue. And my husband teaches this at Yale as well. And we're friends with Oren Lyons and a number of other people. So the image that comes to mind, I wanted to just reaffirm the Standing Rock moment I think underscores this coming together of a profoundly spiritual grounding. Rituals, fire, and ceremony, that made that possible. And the younger peoples who started it I think had a resonance around the world that was astonishing. So I just wanted to say that's what comes to mind for me, right now, is Standing Rock and the other issues across the country that have been birthed out of it. And I really thank you for your question.

David Skorton: Thanks.

Denise Fairchild: And if you want to be connected to some of the movements in that space, we can help you with that as well.

David Skorton: Thanks very much everybody.

~INTERMISSION~

David Skorton: Well, Catrina, in one of your writings, which I've had a very good time learning about, you've written, "There is no morally correct level of atmospheric carbon dioxide."

And so my question to you, Mary Evelyn, is how does adapting to these coming changes and things we're already experiencing, how does this adapting require new forms of morality, new views of religion, philosophy and law?

Mary Evelyn Tucker: What a huge question. And I think there's a community of people who are struggling with this, people in law, people in philosophy, people in religion, religious studies, but also in the various communities. And I think there's this tremendous sense that our moral vision needs to rise to the occasion. That if E.O. Wilson says we're going through an hourglass, especially due to the sixth extinction. We are going through some historical moment that is unique, let's just say, and very pressing, and very confusing. And I think we need, probably, plural moral visions to come through this, for sure. We need that from scientists. We need it from entrepreneurs. We need it from people in urban communities, and so on. But I think that is happening, and that's what's very exciting.

We are going through some historical moment that is unique, let's just say, and very pressing, and very confusing. And I think we need, probably, plural moral visions to come through this.

—Mary Evelyn Tucker

Let me just give you one example on an international level that I think is rather fascinating. In China, there's a movement called ecocivilization. Ecological civilization. It's part of the constitution that this is a right of people for healthy water and air and food, as you mentioned earlier. They are drawing on their traditions of Confucianism and Buddhism and Taoism to say, well, how did these traditions integrate humans into nature? What are their views that can be brought forward?

So that's a rather stunning, I think, example. To say how will this have traction over time with the tremendous problems China is facing is a very, very big question, but I put it before us because I think it's a very fascinating movement forward.

I would also say that the pope's encyclical on the environment, Laudato si’, which really brings together what I think is coming together, and that is ecology and justice. That the ecological community has often been concerned with preserving or conserving ecosystems. Humans are over here. The religions have often been concerned about justice for humans, but not seeing it related to the environment. So, the huge movement of Laudato si’, “care for our common home,” is to say, people and planets are integrated and that clearly we have to have environmental justice at the core of this. Those who are suffering from climate change in coastal communities and elsewhere are the most vulnerable, people who haven't created the problem but are suffering from it.

So, that, I think, is very promising. People at our School of the Environment at Yale feel even that that broad, moral vision, helped to get the climate agreement in Paris, in fact, because of [the pope’s] speeches both here in Congress and at the U.N.

So, just to conclude, every religion now has a statement on the environment, whether it's from care for creation or the sense of intrinsic value, and that's a remarkable movement in 20 years. They also have statements on climate change. And now the call is how to actualize those statements, how to move them forward.

And I'll conclude that the climate march in 2014 with 400 people in New York began with indigenous peoples in the front. It was magnificent and powerful, but 10,000 religious leaders and laity joined that march, and it was a watershed for this religious environmentalism, if you will.

David Skorton: Thanks, Mary Evelyn. Other thoughts about this, Jed?

Jedediah Purdy: I think often in the tradition of law and philosophy, questions of justice among human beings and questions of environment have been thought of with separate vocabularies and separate silos. And I think in quite a deep way environmental questions can't be siloed going further. I think there are at least three ways in which this is true.

One is that climate change, along with other contemporary crises, reinforces and expresses human inequality, both in the global distribution of who contributes to it and in the global distribution of who is vulnerable to it. So, it is itself a question of environmental justice all the way down, and one that's not separable from other forms of global justice.

I think second, because we can't avoid making choices about what sort of world we're going to preserve and any world will foster certain forms of value in relationship to it and preclude others or make them more difficult, it's essential that plural moral voices and traditions participate in a genuine and empowered way in the question of what sort of world we're going to make. So, there's a question, if you will, of political justice, and a question of distributive justice.

And then the third thing, I think, is that questions have often been thought of as matters of domestic policy, welfare and social provisions, say, have environmental dimensions on many levels. Let me give one example. If we want to think of the question how we could understand ourselves as living well without demanding more, always demanding more, if we could decouple our sense of wealth from the fact of growth at some point, which I think has to be part of the said innovations that we're talking about. Well, at present the need for more is enforced politically. If a democratic government or even just a minimally popularly responsive government like China's presides over a collapse in growth and employment, it's going to fall.

And the individual experience that underlies that political enforcement, if you will, the microeconomics of the macroeconomics that says we always need more, is the individual experience of never being sure you have enough to be safe, because the world is so insecure and so precarious. And actually, in a highly unequal country, is becoming more so. Even as we're getting richer people's individual positions are becoming more precarious.

So, an economy that makes people more secure, that makes people safer, gives them more room to take risks, not just in the entrepreneurial sense, but in other senses, may be a precondition to or at least the help to transformative environmental politics.

David Skorton: Really very interesting. Other thoughts about this?

Denise Fairchild: Well, I'm in agreement, basically, with the idea that environmental climate justice, economic justice and social justice is intricately related.

I'm a part of a global, but clearly U.S., movement of frontline communities that have seen the intersections of environmental, economic and social justice. And we're developing formulas, strategies at the local level, looking at local initiatives about how to address these things. You know, Black Lives Matter and Dreamers are working together with [environmental justice] communities and really beginning to see that the causes of poverty and pollution are really the same.

It's the notion of an ethic where extraction at all costs is OK, that it is rooted in how we measure well-being. It's rooted in the gross domestic product, GDP, as opposed to looking at different ways of measuring well-being, as in the country of Bhutan, where the happiness index, people are beginning to understand that it's not just about how much we produce and how much money I make. It's the environment I breathe, the time I have to spend with my kids, the other dimensions that matter to people, and they really do matter. No one really wants to work 60-hour weeks. Nobody really wants to work 40-hour weeks. But that is how our economy is driven.

And to be able to begin to understand solutions that understand the intersections of these elements are very important. And it really starts with measurements of well-being and life-cycle accounting when it even looks at the market economies. Having them look at market economies so they see whatever we do is not just at the point of production, but it is the full life cycle of a material or a product that's produced, begins to get at a different way of measuring what we're doing to ourselves and to our environment.

David Skorton: Thank you. Catrina, please.

Catrina Rorke: So part of the motivation behind writing that phrase is that this is a really complex question about what the future of the globe looks like. So in [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] models, even if we do nothing about global climate change, economic development accelerates at such a rate that in the future we will be better off as a globe, in spite of even catastrophic climate change, which is a really incredible measure, because that can't be consistent with catastrophic climate change, but that's what the models bear because economic growth can solve so many problems.

We know that in the developed world we face fewer obstacles in treating communicable and noncommunicable diseases. We know that a rich country that exists largely below sea level can thrive, while a poor country that exists largely below sea level cannot. And economic development is a terrific indicator, not just for mortality and morbidity, but a terrific indicator for our ability to weather what the environment can throw at us. And so when we think about what these new models and paradigms are for considering global equity, is that part of it? Is a solution to just not deal with this and allow the globe to become richer? What is it that we would be sacrificing if we can solve this problem by ignoring it? I'm not sure that we've necessarily addressed that quite yet.

David Skorton: Very, very interesting. Other thoughts about that?

Steve Monfort: Well, that particular idea, I think, doesn't really match with my own worldview, because economic justice, or economic increase in everybody's standard of living, doesn't necessarily translate to a quality of life holistically, and we were just talking about what it means to live more completely and more holistically in the world, or my connection with nature, or how ecosystems function and biodiversity is sustained.

You can be wealthy and you can have more money and more justice in that sense, but I'm very worried that that is not a solution if you're not also solving how do these systems function? We can't just grow without taking account for the natural function of systems that need to be left alone, need to be intact.

Money alone is only one measure, I suppose, of justice, and well-being, for sure. In my view, that's pretty dangerous, I think. It's sort of a dangerous thought. I can't imagine that just making more money will get us to where we need to be in terms of a sustainable planet.

Money alone is only one measure, I suppose, of justice, and well-being, for sure. In my view, that's pretty dangerous.

—Steve Monfort

David Skorton: Let me push this a little bit further. It depends, I think, in a way, on where you are in the spectrum of economic development. In the West and in the cultures that most of us come from, we tend to think about economic development as starting from a pretty good place and trying to get to a better place. And yet, I think echoed in some of Catrina's comments is a concern about societies that are way below that level of functioning and sufficiency, and whether movement of those societies into more predictable food supplies and so on is a good, no matter how you get there. You didn't say it that way, but I think the ultimate argument would be that the end justifies the means if one is at a barely subsistence level.

Steve Monfort: Well, there was an implication, though, in what was said, that, if I understood it correctly, that we could ignore the problem by just focusing on economic development. I think you have to have increased economic development, that's for sure, but I don't think you can ignore all of the side effects of economic development and that has to be managed in some way that is sensible and that will sustain justice in other ways. I'm not an expert in social environmental justice, but I would say it probably has many dimensions to how we define it. You were already talking about it. So economic justice is only one part of that, so that's all I was really trying to get at.

Denise Fairchild: And I would say the issue of equity, even in Western society, is an issue we have to attend to. That poor communities are very vulnerable to climate change. And I was just talking to Tuck earlier that if you're wealthy in America, you can move to higher ground when there's sea level rise. Not a problem. I can buy another house. I can get in my car. I can drive away. Katrina can hit. No problem. But if you're poor and you're vulnerable ...

So there’s the distribution of wealth is an issue with our economic development models. And even in the global south, the poor communities in the Southern Hemisphere, for example, are challenged. I'm working with Afro-Colombians that live in the Amazon that are looking to preserve their biodiversity. And they've been discovered in the last ten years by the fossil fuel industry that's coming in and extracting their resources, extracting their wealth and their ability to subsist and to live off the land and to live a quality of life in the interests of our economic development, goals and objectives. So I think the economically developed world are causing the pollution and the inability to subsist in other parts of the global south, in particular.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: I just want to mention that I think this is absolutely crucial, what you both said. But the U.N. is attending to some of this, despite that people think it's removed and out there. The millennium development goals were very much oriented to what is genuine development? What is more equitable development? This whole redefining development, especially with your concerns, rightly so, for the poor and for the global south, and then the sustainability development goals that just came out right after the pope spoke at the U.N., adopted by all nations in the world. I think this is a point of optimism and hope that we can recalibrate what is genuine development.

In that mix, in the Rio conference in '92, which was about sustainability and development, ecology and economy, [former Soviet Union leader Mikhail] Gorbachev said we need an ethics that's going to help adjudicate or help weave these two clashing problems, and the Earth Charter came out of that. It took ten years to develop that. People from every continent were represented. Women's groups, minorities groups, business communities and so on. And I think the Earth Charter is a measure of the sense that we have a much richer sense of interdependence. That charter, just briefly, ecology, the integrity of ecosystems, justice and peace. That's the framework. And I think this is really essential for a broader picture in addressing some of these specific issues.

David Skorton: I think bringing up the Earth Charter is a really relevant thing for this conversation, because without such a, to use a cliché, holistic view, you could imagine a certain arrogance where countries that have attained a certain level say now we got to really put the brakes on X or Y, and then countries that are trying to get up to a subsistence level are not there, but the Earth Charter took a holistic view and followed very much the kind of words that you were espousing, Steve.

Steve Monfort: Economic development is, of course, at the heart of everything. Every other society wants to live the same way we do and so on, with the benefits that we have, but this whole idea of smarter development, smart green infrastructure development, there are ways to do that that are not incompatible with sustaining biodiversity and functioning systems that won't have add-on effects to climate change and so on.

To me, the reality is we’re going to have, trillions of dollars are going to be spent on development in one way or the other, so the idea is well, how are we going to deploy those funds to develop in a smart way that gets people what they need without also destroying the environment? That's the win-win that's out there for me. And it's all relative, like you said. In the Masai culture it's about how many cattle you have, let's say. If we just endlessly increase cattle herds, we're going to have no grazing pasture and we're going to have this commons tragedy going, so we have to create other avenues for these folks to have economic development.

And I believe, somehow, they can be done in smarter ways, in compatible ways that can allow you to do both things, which is to have environmental justice and sustainability and also economic development. I don't think they're necessarily incompatible things.

David Skorton: This is a very positive statement and moves us in the direction of optimism, and I want to explore that a little bit more, especially from the point of view of what an individual can do.

So obviously, at least I will tend to hang onto examples throughout history of where an individual who was courageous and visionary has been able to make a difference that caused a ripple effect that caused more differences and something very positive happened. So what can each of us do individually to make a difference? I want to begin to talk about solutions, not necessarily this panel, but just each of us in general. What can we be doing? What can we suggest to our friends and colleagues and neighbors in the United States and around the world, to make a difference about this set of problems. We all acknowledge there's problems. We all acknowledge that there's complexities in what caused the problems and what might sustain them. What can each of us begin to do?

Steve Monfort: Can I use one example? It's not my own personal action, but we just held this Earth Optimism Summit and so we invited these 250-plus people from around the world to come and tell us what works in conservation and why and how can you take those successes to scale. And one of the guys who was there, his steps stood out for me.

His name is Afro Shaw, he's from Mumbai, he's a lawyer, and he lives in an apartment building. He would look out the window and he saw that Verosa Beach, which is out where he could see, was just covered with plastic pollution, just horrific. And he gave his talk here, and he's been evangelizing what he does. But he and an 84-year-old neighbor looked at this and said, "We have to do something. The government's not doing anything, what can we do?"

And they went out and they decided they were going to start a social media campaign and they were going to start picking up plastic. And he was telling the story, so now they're 75 weeks into it, it's the largest beach cleanup that's ever been done with thousands of tons of plastic have been picked up. And this was about just two individuals taking action. And so he said to everyone, "I don't believe you have to wait for the government. You don't have to wait for anybody to tell you what to do." He says, "The problem was with me. The solution was with me." And he took action to do something.

And I think that was an example of personal commitment and action, but that's infectious, and that probably at some level embarrassed or incentivized the government and others to use that and to take it up. And I was just impressed by so many individual examples of people who have taken action.

So in my own life I'm a bit, also, sometimes humbled, as to what can I possibly do? And I think it's a struggle. We talked earlier about making individual choices and kind of the food that I ... I think more about where my food is sourced from. I drive a car that's more fuel-efficient, things like that. But as we said earlier, everybody doing that, you know, taking a shorter shower, isn't going to save the planet.

So I think it's a wicked kind of a problem for how can a person have an impact? It's basically trying to catalyze a community in wherever you live and to take action. Someone told me once that ... I was doing an environmental education program in Miami with middle-school kids, and a guy who I was there with, he says, "Well this is great." He says, "So what do you do back home in your own kid's school?" And I realized I was a thousand miles away, working with middle-school kids, and I'd never been to my own kid's grade school.

So I came home and I went and I saw the principal, and I went and talked to him, and I started doing environmental education there. So one of the things that I think you can do, wherever you are, wherever you live, is to take ownership of the community in which you live in. And we're so distributed, and we live ... No one's from here. This is a famous place, where no one is really from Washington. A lot of people aren't. You are. But take ownership of the place that you live in. And learn about it, and know about it, and try to become engaged in it. I think that's the only way I can think of, is to be involved in your community on a personal level.

Tuck Hines: I think that's a great comment. You know, the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center focuses on our home in Chesapeake Bay. And we view the largest estuary in the country, the Chesapeake Bay, as really a system that includes the watershed. 64,000 square miles, six states and the District of Columbia. You know we're all sitting here on our main study site.

That's an enormous area, and an extremely complicated challenge to try to regulate and engage. It's got some 18 million people on it, now headed toward 24 million. But one way that we've found is it has to become personal. You'll be much more motivated about you and yours and your situation. And these things scale. So a 64,000-square-mile watershed has lots of little watersheds. And the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center is on a much smaller watershed called the Rhode River where we've set this model system for understanding how it works, and what's driving it, and how it interacts with the larger world.

And the people in that community we've begun to increasingly interact with and get them aware of what we do and make that accessible, to engage them in that process. That engagement is part of what the Smithsonian and our new strategic plan is all about.

So, to Steve's comment, you have to interact and take responsibility for yourself. Yes, you are one person. But that's what you can control, for sure. And you can make that happen by connecting to others through culture and choices. And making the economy drive forward, and improve ... Apply those technologies in an effective way, rather than staying in the rut of how it was done before.

You have to interact and take responsibility for yourself. Yes, you are one person. But that's what you can control.

—Tuck Hines

Denise Fairchild: Yeah. I think part of the solution has to do at the individual level. It depends on what you really ... Your perspective as to what the problem is. And if the problem is seen as how the economy works, then human agency needs to be deployed in a way that puts our money where our mouth is. Where we withdraw resources that we do not spend money in places for irresponsible business. Now there's a whole new movement of socially responsible businesses, the Ben & Jerry's of the world, and what we can name the B Corps. The whole notion of B Corps are growing. And so we should really pay attention to that.

And also, as our own agencies live large on less, and the different ways of doing that, but the notion of power. We have power with respect to money and how we use money, and I think it's not just the individual agency around withholding resources, but it's collective power as well. And to the extent that we actually join organizations and influence the policy environment and influence the market to behave in ways that will create a climate that will adjust for climate change, I think is important.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: Like divest. Divest.

Denise Fairchild: Divestment. Mmhmm.

Mary Evelyn Tucker: And invest. Jed, you were trying to get in.

Jedediah Purdy: I just would like to agree and amplify how essential I think this point is, about collective work that aims at mobilizing power. If we're on the theme of optimism and what the individual can do, much as I think it's important to honor and cultivate all the kinds of virtues and local commitments that people are talking about, and I really do, I think we all do, I think optimism can be a double-edged thing.

An analogy. I will never forget this public opinion finding, now more than 15 years ago, that if you add up the share of Americans who think they're in the top 1 percent of national income, and the share who think they aren't yet but soon will be, you get more than 50 percent. So, that's optimistic.

And in some ways you might try things that y

====== 41 ========

FROZEN AMUR RIVER

16th Annual Smithsonian.com Photo Contest

Frozen Amur River

This extremely remote region is one of the coldest in the world. For this reason, a number of Chinese electric-car manufacturers have chosen it as their winter testing site for their new prototype electric cars, like this prototype EV of Chinese Slovenian joint venture APG Elaphe. Here in the middle of nowhere on a frozen Amur river (border between China and Russia), the Chinese engineers are taking the future for a test spin.

TAGS: China

====== 42 ========

SHACKLETON PROBABLY NEVER TOOK OUT AN AD SEEKING MEN FOR A HAZARDOUS JOURNEY

In the London newspaper The Times, the story goes, Sir Ernest Shackleton, the famed explorer of Antarctica, posted the following ad:

The pitch certainly captures a certain glorious spirit—“Ah, when ships were made of wood and men were made of steel…” said one Twitter user in response to the advert being shared by the Shackleton Foundation. In response to his posted ad, Shackleton was supposedly flooded with 5000 responses, men clamoring to take their chances on the icy southern continent. The story has been told and retold, and the quote has been riffed on to no end.

But here’s the problem. The ad, and the well-loved quote it bore, probably never existed.

For at least the past 12 years there’s been $100 on the line for anyone who can find a copy of the original advertisement. A modest sum, sure, but more than enough to stoke the interest of historians worldwide. Mark Horrell summarizes the long trail of evidence dug up by the Arctic Circle group of historians working on tracking down the clip:

So far amateur historians have searched The Times archive from 1785 to 1985 (a little over-zealous given Shackleton died in 1922), the entire archive of the South Polar Times, a magazine called The Blizzard, several issues of the Geographical Journal, and the archives of a number of other national and local London newspapers, without success. The earliest known source is a book published in 1944 called Quit You Like Men by Carl Hopkins Elmore, which in turn led to it appearing at No.1 in the 1949 book The 100 Greatest Advertisements by Julian Watkins, which in turn is quoted in Roland Huntford’s 1985 biography of Shackleton and numerous other books about polar exploration.

Shackleton did write a letter to the Times, but it read a little differently:

Sir,–It has been an open secret for some time past that I have been desirous of leading another expedition to the South Polar regions. I am glad now to be able to state that, through the generosity of a friend, I can announce that an expedition will start next year with the object of crossing the South Polar continent from sea to sea. I have taken the liberty of calling the expedition “The Imperial Trans Antarctic Expedition,” because I feel that not only the people of these islands, but our kinsmen in all the lands under the Union Jack will be willing to assist towards the carrying out of the full programme of exploration to which my comrades and myself are pledged. Yours faithfully,

ERNEST H. SHACKLETON

Discerning History:

Not only can no references be found to an original source, searching the Times itself leads to nothing. The months covering Shackleton’s preparations for his expeditions have been read, and the rest of the paper programmatically searched, but both methods have come up empty. It would not have even made sense for Shackleton to place an ad in the paper. There was plenty of free press coverage of his expedition, and he would already have had plenty of men to choose from. Some of the descendents of his men remember being told their ancestors responded to an ad Shackleton placed in the paper, but this was likely a recollection based on reading the ad rather than something they were actually told. Frank Worsley, one of the crew members, wrote his memoirs and did not record seeing an ad, instead he just happened upon the expedition’s offices and decided to apply. Inspiring though it may be, it seems that Shackleton’s famous ad is mostly likely a myth.

People love the Shackleton advertisement and the tale it tells about the spirit of these brave adventurers. But though their harrowing expedition, and the achievements of Shackleton and his men were real, the ad that brought them all together, sadly, was probably not.

More from Smithsonian.com:

Tasting Shackleton’s Whisky

Reliving Shackleton’s Epic Endurance Expedition

====== 43 ========

WHY SNAIL SEX IS LIKE A BOX OF CHOCOLATES

When you kneel down to give your sweetie an engagement ring, you’re taking part in a time-honored western ritual: sealing a partnership with gifts. In other parts of the planet, nuptial gifts can mean the bride’s family gives a dowry; in some cultures, mutual dowries are exchanged. But humans aren't the only ones who have found that romance often works better when it comes with presents.

Related Content Meet Eight Species That Are Bending the Rules of Reproduction

Scientists have found that some of the creepiest, crawliest creatures on the planet also take part in amorous gift-giving. Male dance flies, katydids and certain spiders offer a free meal to the objects of their affection; snails include a shot of fortifying nutrients with their sperm. Apart from convincing prospective mates to share a romantic moment, such offerings can strengthen the female after mating and sometimes even lessen her likelihood to mate with others.

When it comes to non-human animals, though, it might help to think of more edible gifts than metal rings. “It’s like giving her a box of chocolates,” says Joris Koene, an assistant professor in biology at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam who studies snail reproduction. Koene says the term in wildlife usually applies to species with separate male and female sexes, which contribute a gift of energy or specific substances that the female can then invest in her eggs.

Now researchers are starting to untangle why species that fall outside of heteronormative partnerships have developed different gift-giving traditions—or none at all.

Koene recently co-authored a study on snails that sought to understand the kind of nutrient exchange that occurs when species mate outside of the male-female dichotomy. To figure out what kind of resource exchange was going on, Koene and his coauthors monitored the amount of nutrients like carbon and nitrogen transferred between two different species of hermaphroditic snails.

The species he focused on were the fresh water Lymnaea stagnalis, or the great pond snail, and the land snail known as Cornu aspersum. The pond snail is a hermaphrodite that can choose the role of giver or taker in a relationship. By contrast, for the land snail to successfully mate, both mollusks have to insert their reproductive organs into each other at the same time. “The penises have to be inserted into each other in order to mate. Otherwise nothing happens,” Koene explains.

This behavior made Koene and his colleagues wonder whether the nuptial gift concept even applied in this case. After all, if both sides exchange gifts along with their sperm, isn’t it a zero-sum game? To find out, researchers watched the land snails have sex, then callously pulled them apart past the point of no return, but just before each of them had ejaculated. They then collected the resulting substance that the snails excreted.

Analyzing the contents, they found that the snails did indeed exchange some nutrients. But the mutual ejaculation erased any benefit that either individual might have received from the exchange. In fact, when accounting for the energy expended in the exchange, both individuals end up losing out in a strict economy of energy because of the effort spent getting busy.

In the case of the land snails, researchers didn’t have to hurt or kill the animals in order to better understand their behavior. “We just traumatize them a little bit,” Koene says, adding that it was for all “for the sake of science.” But the great pond snails weren’t quite so lucky, since they don’t prepare their ejaculate before transfer; Koene says they had to kill the animals in order to collect the substance.

While they found that the latter snails likely do contribute some nutrients to their partners, it wasn't nearly enough to actually help in the production of eggs. “You would need about 20 or 30 ejaculates to have a proper contribution to one egg clutch,” Koene says. “For both of the [snail species] we tested, if you add things up it doesn’t really benefit them that much.”

In that way, the ejaculated nutrients really are like a box of chocolates: they may provide a nice momentary boost, but they don’t actually help with child-rearing.

Karim Vahed, a professor of entomology at the University of Derby in England who has published several papers on nuptial gifts, says that the new research shows how the concept of nuptial gift exchange is much more complicated when we account for the fact that some species don’t necessarily operate under a binary male-female relationship.

“It’s the first paper that I’m aware of that actually drills down into that question more deeply by actually looking at what quantity of substances is exchanged,” he says.

Vahed adds that the snail situation stands in contrast to the huge nuptial gifts that some insects donate to their partners. Male katydids, for example, produce a spermatophore during mating that can be up to 30 percent of their body mass, which contains both ejaculate and a mass of edible jelly. The female eats the jelly while the sperm enters her body, and then consumes any leftover sperm for added sustenance.

By giving a large gift to the female, who isn't monogamous, the male ensures that she will spend some time consuming it. His ejaculate confers another reproductive benefit as well: it contains substances referred to by researchers as "ejaculate allohormones," which actually switch off female sexual receptivity.

“The males could actually be subtly manipulating female behavior by prolonging ejaculate transfers,” Vahed says.

Other species have a hunger for sex—and the nuptial gifts that come with it—that can’t be as easily squelched.

Dance flies in the U.S. Northeast and Canada are peculiar in the animal kingdom in that the females of the species are more ornamental than the males. During dawn and dusk, the females will take wing, sucking in huge quantities of air to inflate their bright orange abdomens. The inflated abdomens swell to disks about the third of a size of a penny, ensuring that the mosquito-sized males will see them silhouetted against the horizon.

“They’re like little insect peacock tails,” says Darryl Gwynne, a biology professor at the University of Toronto Mississauga. “When they really get going, there will be thousands of them.” And like male peacocks, these insects sacrifice physical fitness for sex appeal: Their ornamented, scaled legs and puffy bodies makes them clumsy, so they are more likely to blunder into spider webs than the males of the species.

Yet these females' seemingly counterproductive behavior is motivated by a powerful, instinctive urge: the munchies. The flies that males catch and present to potential mates, it turns out, comprise the female’s only source of sustenance. So in this case, attractive accoutrements aren’t only a matter of passing on one’s genes. It’s also about immediate survival. “With the [female] dance flies, it’s hunger that drives them,” he says.

Hungry female dance flies will mate with as many males as they can. This satisfies their appetite, as well as ensures a healthy genetic mix among their offspring. But Luc Bussiere, an evolutionary biology professor at the University of Stirling in Scotland who has worked with Gwynne on dance flies, says it’s in the best interests of the males to mate with a female who isn’t as flashy. That way, he’s more likely to be her one and only.

Or so one might think. Having a large abdomen, says Bussiere, might indicate to a male that a female is in peak mating form. “You can understand why males would like to mate with really fat females,” he says. “First of all she’s probably got more eggs. And more importantly, those eggs are probably nearly ready to be laid.” But seemingly large and fertile females may actually be a trick of the eye, deceiving males with their inflated, shiny bodies.

Male gift-givers can be tricksters, too. Nursery web spiders catch insects for their female consorts in an effort to woo them and avoid getting eaten themselves. But males who aren’t as good as hunting down bugs will often give the female a fake meal instead. “In some cases the males actually cheat by transferring something inedible,” Bussiere says. The fact that they wrap it in webbing allows them to hide inedible items in a silk package.

Bussiere says that Koene's work helps reveal the biases that human researchers exhibit when studying animals that don’t have separate sexes or operate in monogamous male-female partnerships. Blow-up flies, fake rings, and nutrient packages that cancel each other out all serve to illustrate the number of twists and turns that exist in nuptial gift giving across species.

“The male reproductive strategy of giving nuptial gifts cannot be generalized to any sexually reproducing animal,” says Monica Lodi, the lead author of the recent study with Koene. “If we don’t step outside that general habit, we draw incorrect conclusions about the prevalence of these behaviors or these ways of life.” Romance, it seems, comes in many forms.

====== 44 ========

TEXAS WILL FINALLY TEACH THAT SLAVERY WAS MAIN CAUSE OF THE CIVIL WAR

Last week, the Texas Board of Education voted to make a change to the state’s social studies standards that no serious historian would quibble with, but is, nevertheless, controversial in the Lone Star State: to teach that slavery was the central issue of the American Civil War, and not, as previous standards had dictated, a cause eclipsed by states’ rights and sectionalism. Camille Phillips at NPR reports the change is one of several to the curriculum that will be implemented in the 2019-2020 school year.

Standards previously adopted in 2010 were designed to play up the role of states’ rights and sectionalism and downplay slavery as the reason Texas entered the Civil War on the side of the Confederacy. Slavery, one board member said at the time, according to The Washington Post, was a “side issue.”

While the board’s Democrats, who first proposed the change in language in September, wanted to update standards to elucidate the central role that slavery played in the Civil War, the Republican-dominated board succeeded in keeping states’ rights issues and sectionalism on as “contributing factors” for the Civil War. The resulting compromise, according to the board, will teach "the central role of the expansion of slavery in causing sectionalism, disagreements over states' rights, and the Civil War."

Ron Francis, a high school history teacher in Highland Park, calls the compromise wanting. “The lies they’re telling are a little smaller than the lies they used to tell,” as he puts it to Kathyrn Lundstrom at The Texas Tribune.

During the meeting, Democratic board member Marisa Perez-Diaz explained the root of the frustration, saying, "What the use of 'states' rights' is doing is essentially blanketing, or skirting, the real foundational issue, which is slavery."

Republican board member David Bradley was one of the leading voices behind keeping states’ rights in the curriculum. "Each state had differences and made individual decisions as to whether or not to join into the conflict, correct? I mean, that's the definition of states' rights," he said in the meeting.

Since 1917, when state law authorized the board, which is often staffed by non-educators, to purchase all public school textbooks, it has maintained control of Texas' public school curriculum. Lundstrom of the Tribune reports the board’s standards have turned into a battleground for conservatives and liberals over what students should be taught.

Teachers will sometimes skirt these standards—for instance, one tells Lundstrom that she teaches the Reconstruction era, the period after the Civil War that set the stage for racial politics in the United States for the next century and a half, even though it is not mandated. However, the voluntary nature of such practice guarantees that not every student will be taught it. Meanwhile, the numerous topics that are included on standardized tests are not taught with the depth or nuance that they demand because teachers are forced to go through them in rapid fashion so as to cover all of the material needed to prepare their students to perform well on the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness, or STAAR test.

In response to such criticism, the board is working to streamline the state's curriculum standards to give teachers a little more space to teach. However, some of what they’re editing out has also been criticized. For instance, as Lauren McGaughy at The Dallas Morning News reports, the new curriculum still lists only one cause for the extremely fraught Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and it cuts out many historical figures, including Francis Scott Key, who wrote the Star-Spangled Banner, African-American poet Phillis Wheatley, as well as several Confederate leaders. Under pressure, the board voted to keep Helen Keller and Hillary Clinton on a list of notable Americans that could be included in lessons, though Oprah Winfrey, Barry Goldwater and astronaut Ellen Ochoa got the nix. The board also voted to keep in a specific description of the defenders of the Alamo as "heroic."

While some of the issues here are distinctly inter-Texan battles, over at The Houston Chronicle Joanna Perrillo explains that the curriculum decided by the school board also has national implications. After all, Texas represents one-tenth of grade school and high school students in the U.S., and the textbooks written to Texas standards go to other states as well.

====== 45 ========

EARTH’S QUIETEST PLACE WILL DRIVE YOU CRAZY IN 45 MINUTES

Everybody seems to be looking for a little peace and quiet these days. But even such a reasonable idea can go too far. The quietest place on earth, an anechoic chamber at Orfield Laboratories in Minnesota, is so quiet that the longest anybody has been able to bear it is 45 minutes.

Inside the room it's silent. So silent that the background noise measured is actually negative decibels, -9.4 dBA. Steven Orfield, the lab's founder, told Hearing Aid Know: “We challenge people to sit in the chamber in the dark – one person stayed in there for 45 minutes. When it’s quiet, ears will adapt. The quieter the room, the more things you hear. You’ll hear your heart beating, sometimes you can hear your lungs, hear your stomach gurgling loudly. In the anechoic chamber, you become the sound."

But the room isn't just for torturing people. Companies test their products in it to find out just how loud they are. And NASA has sent astronauts to help them adapt to the silence of space. For you and me, however, the room is a deeply disorienting place. Not only do people hear their heartbeat, they have trouble orienting themselves and even standing. "How you orient yourself is through sounds you hear when you walk. In the anechnoic chamber, you don't have any cues," Orfield told the Daily Mail. "You take away the perceptual cues that allow you to balance and manoeuvre. If you're in there for half an hour, you have to be in a chair."

So the next time you wish for some quiet time, remember that it could also drive you crazy.

More from Smithsonian.com:

Why the Sun Was So Quiet for So Long

Why Golfers Might Need Earplugs

====== 46 ========

WHAT DID ELIZABETH I ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE? THIS ARTIST HAS A SUGGESTION

During her 45-year reign, England’s Elizabeth I carefully cultivated her public image. She did such a good job of managing it that nearly 500 years after her rise to power, her imperial majesty continues to be depicted with a lithe figure, whose shape is emphasized by delicate lace collars, a smooth ivory complexion, and vibrant red hair dotted with precious jewels.

As Jonathan Jones reports for the Guardian, a new mixed-media installation by British artist Mat Collishaw complicates the visual we have of the last Tudor monarch, showing her as a master of artifice who crafted and controlled the mask she presented to the world, particularly as she grew older and fell victim to increasingly poor health.

“The proliferation of portraits seemed to set up a smoke screen more than it revealed her true character, which remained concealed behind her inscrutable appearance,” Collishaw explains in an interview published on the Royal Museums Greenwich blog. “Years of insecurity, due to the potentially volatile political climate, led her to create a public mask which became fused with her private self, the two becoming inseparable.”

Collishaw’s creation, fittingly entitled “The Mask of Youth,” renders this theory tangible by juxtaposing an animatronic, life-like and realistically unflattering depiction of Elizabeth with the triumphant "Armada Portrait," which was produced around 1588 to commemorate Philip II of Spain’s failed invasion of the British Isles.

On one wall of an exhibition hall in the Queen’s House, Greenwich, Elizabeth appears serene, omnipotent and incredibly youthful for a woman of roughly 55. The pearls in her hair speak to the “chastity” of England’s “Virgin Queen,” while the lace ruff surrounding her face radiates “warmth, beauty and goodness,” per the RMG blog.

On the wall directly across from this image, a different version of Elizabeth appears. As Lucy Davies notes for the Telegraph, this queen bears all the hallmarks of her age: sunken eyes, wrinkles, smallpox-scarred skin and even wispy chin hairs. She’s missing her famed red hair—not to mention a corporeal body. Instead, she is little more than a rubber mask installed in a glass box. Behind her sits a jumble of whirring machinery that dictates her movements, from unnervingly blinking eyes to quavering mouth; the ultimate effect, Jamie Rigg writes for Engadget, is that of a silent queen surveying her court, physically unmasked to reveal the face behind the facade but concealing her inner thoughts just as she did in both portraits and life.

It’s not surprising that Elizabeth was adept in the art of crafting and maintaining an image: As the second daughter of a king yearning for sons and the product of an annulled union that ended with her mother’s execution on trumped up charges of adultery, she spent her life hiding behind a mask of her own creation. There were few other options if she hoped to survive the rise and fall of the kings and queens who ruled before she took power—an arduous task that she navigated by concealing her true intentions and beguiling those around her until Mary I died childless in 1558, leaving her sister Elizabeth heir to the throne.

Determined to maintain her independence, the 25-year-old queen decided to remain unmarried. For History Extra, Anna Whitelock writes that the queen’s “body was held to be one and the same as England.” When Elizabeth was young, vivacious and seemingly bound to produce a bevy of male heirs, this equation of private and public worked in her favor. When she was beyond childbearing years, with her balding grey hair, wrinkles and rotting teeth partially masked by heavy cosmetics and wigs, the emphasis on appearance proved more problematic.

Portraits became a key method of maintaining the myth of the queen’s youthful beauty, the Telegraph’s Davies notes. Toward the end of her reign, Elizabeth issued a “face template” that portrait artists were commanded to adhere to, and as Brenda Ralph Lewis of British Heritage recounts, her secretary of state, Sir Robert Cecil, once wrote, “Many painters have done portraits of the Queen but none has sufficiently shown her looks or charms. Therefore Her Majesty commands all manner of persons to stop doing portraits of her until a clever painter has finished one which all other painters can copy. Her Majesty, in the meantime, forbids the showing of any portraits which are ugly until they are improved.”

In an interview with the BBC’s Dan John, National Maritime Museum curator Christine Riding says that Collishaw’s “Mask of Youth,” which was produced based on biometric information drawn from painted portraits, a 3D scan of the queen’s death mask and contemporary accounts of her appearance, doesn’t claim to provide a definitive depiction of Elizabeth.

“This is as artificial as the 'Armada Portrait,'” Riding explains. “It may be more lifelike, but you can see the mechanics that are whirring up every time that she moves. This is no attempt to say this is Elizabeth I. It is another kind of artifice.”

“The Mask of Youth” is on view at the Queen’s House, Greenwich, through February 3, 2019.

====== 47 ========

THE WORST SHARK ATTACK IN HISTORY

Related Content The Real Science Behind the Megalodon

The USS Indianapolis had delivered the crucial components of the first operational atomic bomb to a naval base on the Pacific island of Tinian. On August 6, 1945, the weapon would level Hiroshima. But now, on July 28, the Indianapolis sailed from Guam, without an escort, to meet the battleship USS Idaho in the Leyte Gulf in the Philippines and prepare for an invasion of Japan.

The next day was quiet, with the Indianapolis making about 17 knots through swells of five or six feet in the seemingly endless Pacific. As the sun set over the ship, the sailors played cards and read books; some spoke with the ship’s priest, Father Thomas Conway.

But shortly after midnight, a Japanese torpedo hit the Indianapolis in the starboard bow, blowing almost 65 feet of the ship’s bow out of the water and igniting a tank containing 3,500 gallons of aviation fuel into a pillar of fire shooting several hundred feet into the sky. Then another torpedo from the same submarine hit closer to midship, hitting fuel tanks and powder magazines and setting off a chain reaction of explosions that effectively ripped the Indianapolis in two. Still traveling at 17 knots, the Indianapolis began taking on massive amounts of water; the ship sank in just 12 minutes. Of the 1,196 men aboard, 900 made it into the water alive. Their ordeal—what is considered the worst shark attack in history—was just beginning.

As the sun rose on July 30, the survivors bobbed in the water. Life rafts were scarce. The living searched for the dead floating in the water and appropriated their lifejackets for survivors who had none. Hoping to keep some semblance of order, survivors began forming groups—some small, some over 300—in the open water. Soon enough they would be staving off exposure, thirst—and sharks.

The animals were drawn by the sound of the explosions, the sinking of the ship and the thrashing and blood in the water. Though many species of shark live in the open water, none is considered as aggressive as the oceanic whitetip. Reports from the Indianapolis survivors indicate that the sharks tended to attack live victims close to the surface, leading historians to believe that most of the shark-related causalities came from oceanic whitetips.

The first night, the sharks focused on the floating dead. But the survivors’ struggles in the water only attracted more and more sharks, which could feel their motions through a biological feature known as a lateral line: receptors along their bodies that pick up changes in pressure and movement from hundreds of yards away. As the sharks turned their attentions toward the living, especially the injured and the bleeding, sailors tried to quarantine themselves away from anyone with an open wound, and when someone died, they would push the body away, hoping to sacrifice the corpse in return for a reprieve from a shark’s jaw. Many survivors were paralyzed with fear, unable even to eat or drink from the meager rations they had salvaged from their ship. One group of survivors made the mistake of opening a can of Spam—but before they could taste it, the scent of the meat drew a swarm of sharks around them. They got rid of their meat rations rather than risk a second swarming.

The sharks fed for days, with no sign of rescue for the men. Navy intelligence had intercepted a message from the Japanese submarine that had torpedoed the Indianapolis describing how it had sunk an American battleship along the Indianapolis’ route, but the message was disregarded as a trick to lure American rescue boats into an ambush. In the meantime, the Indianapolis survivors learned that they had the best odds in a group, and ideally in the center of the group. The men on the margins or, worse, alone, were the most susceptible to the sharks.

As the days passed, many survivors succumbed to heat and thirst, or suffered hallucinations that compelled them to drink the seawater around them—a sentence of death by salt poisoning. Those who so slaked their thirst would slip into madness, foaming at the mouth as their tongues and lips swelled. They often became as great a threat to the survivors as the sharks circling below—many dragged their comrades underwater with them as they died.

After 11:00 a.m. on their fourth day in the water, a Navy plane flying overhead spotted the Indianapolis survivors and radioed for help. Within hours, another seaplane, manned by Lieutenant Adrian Marks, returned to the scene and dropped rafts and survival supplies. When Marks saw men being attacked by sharks, he disobeyed orders and landed in the infested waters, and then began taxiing his plane to help the wounded and stragglers, who were at the greatest risk. A little after midnight, the USS Doyle arrived on the scene and helped to pull the last survivors from the water. Of the Indianapolis’ original 1,196-man crew, only 317 remained. Estimates of the number who died from shark attacks range from a few dozen to almost 150. It’s impossible to be sure. But either way, the ordeal of the Indianapolis survivors remains the worst maritime disaster in U.S. naval history.

Sources: Richard Bedser. Ocean of Fear: Worst Shark Attack Ever . Discovery Channel: United States, 2007; Cathleen Bester. “Oceanic Whitetip Shark,” On the Florida Museum of Natural History. Accessed August 7, 2013; Nick Collins. “Oceanic whitetip shark: ten facts,” On Telegraph UK, December 6, 2010. Accessed August 6, 2013; Tom Harris. “How Sharks Work,” On How Stuff Works, March 30, 2001. Accessed August 6, 2013; Alex Last. “USS Indianapolis sinking: ‘You could see sharks circling’” on BBC News Magazine, July 28, 2013. Accessed August 6, 2013; Raymond B. Leach. The Tragic Fate of the USS Indianapolis. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2000; Marc Nobleman. The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis. North Mankato, MN: Capstone Publishers, 2006; “Oral History -The Sinking of USS Indianapolis,” On Naval Historical Center, September 1, 1999. Accessed August 7, 2013; “The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis, 1945.” On Eyewitness to History, 2006. Accessed August 6, 2013; Doug Stanton. In Harm’s Way: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors. New York, NY: Macmillan, 2003; “The Story.” On the USS Indianapolis CA-35, March 1998. Accessed August 6, 2013; Jennifer Viegas. “Worst Shark Attack,” On Discovery Channel. Accessed August 6, 2013.

====== 48 ========

THE TRUE STORY OF ROBERT THE BRUCE, SCOTLAND’S ‘OUTLAW KING’

Six weeks before he seized the Scottish crown in March 1306, Robert the Bruce murdered his closest political rival.

He’d arranged to meet longtime opponent John “the Red” Comyn at a priory in Dumfries in southern Scotland, ostensibly to discuss “certain business touching them both,” but quickly changed tactics, accused Comyn of treachery and struck him down. As Comyn lay bleeding at the foot of the shrine, Bruce retreated, giving the friars a chance to tend to the fallen man’s wounds. But he then learned his target was still alive and sent several men back to finish the bloody task. As Walter of Guisborough wrote around 1308, when Comyn “had confessed and was truly repentant, by the tyrant's order he was dragged out of the vestry and killed on the steps of the high altar.”

The murder—described by the English the following year as “outrageous sacrilege inhumanly committed against God and the holy Church”—placed Bruce on a collision course with Scotland’s imposing neighbor, England. But the motivations behind the act remain as mired in uncertainty as the legacy of the warrior king himself. Alternately painted as a patriot whose perseverance secured his nation’s independence and a more shadowy figure with dangerous ambitions and a tenuous sense of allegiance, Bruce remains one of Scottish history’s most controversial characters, and one of the few whose name is easily recognized by non-Scots.

Director David McKenzie’s upcoming Netflix biopic, The Outlaw King, represents one of the first major film adaptations of Bruce’s story. (The 1995 epic Braveheart finds a younger Bruce intersecting with Mel Gibson’s William Wallace but concludes long before Bruce becomes the Scots’ leader.) Starring Chris Pine as the titular character, Outlaw King picks up roughly where Braveheart left off, chronicling Wallace’s downfall, Bruce’s subsequent rise and the middle years of the First War of Scottish Independence.

Bruce’s transformation from the much derided “King Hob,” or King Nobody, to protector of Scotland happened slowly and is more nuanced than suggested by Outlaw King, which compresses the historical timeline and tends to skirt unsavory aspects of Bruce’s personality in favor of presenting a conflicted, even reluctant ruler.

Still, McKenzie tells the Hollywood Reporter, “He’s a complicated hero. He gets half of the way he wants to go by murdering someone in a church. He’s one of the one percent. He’s not an easy hero to go, ‘He’s our folk guy.’”

Given the drawn-out nature of the struggle for Scottish independence, the film’s condensed time frame—it focuses on Bruce’s life between 1304 and 1307—makes narrative sense. But whether this hinders Outlaw King’s ability to capture Bruce’s transformation, in the words of historian Fiona Watson—author of the newly released Traitor, Outlaw, King: The Making of Robert Bruce—from someone “incredibly inept” to someone “quite extraordinary” is another issue entirely.

***

Like many conflicts of the medieval era, the First War of Scottish Independence began with a succession crisis. After Alexander III, King of Scots, died suddenly in 1286, the throne passed to his granddaughter, three-year-old Margaret, Maid of Norway. Never officially crowned, she died unexpectedly four years later, triggering a battle for power between claimants John Balliol and Robert the Bruce, the grandfather of the better-known Robert. Trapped in a stalemate, the Scots asked England’s Edward I (played in Outlaw King by Stephen Dillane) to choose their nation’s next ruler. In 1292, he picked Balliol.

England’s intervention came with a heavy price: Edward forced the Scottish nobility to pledge fealty to him, eroding the country’s claim to sovereignty and treating Scotland much like a feudal territory. Incensed, the Scots formed a separate alliance with France in 1295 and continued their subversion of English authority with a 1296 attack on the city of Carlisle. Edward retaliated in brutal fashion. As 15th-century chronicler Walter Bower recounts, the king targeted the Scottish city of Berwick, sparing “no one, whatever the age or sex, and for two days streams of blood flowed from the bodies of the slain … so that mills could be turned round by the flow of their blood.”

During these early stages of the war, Bruce and his father Robert sided with the English. The younger Robert had recently served in the royal household, Michael Penman writes in Robert the Bruce: King of the Scots, and it’s possible he wanted to convince Edward that the Bruce clan had forgotten its ambitions of claiming the throne. Whatever his motivations, the 21-year-old Robert marched with the English against the country he would one day rule.

But in 1297, an increasingly disillusioned Bruce shifted his allegiance to Scottish rebel William Wallace. Forever cemented (erroneously) in popular imagination as a blue paint-covered kilt-wearer, Wallace is often portrayed as a more straightforward figure than his successor in the bid for Scottish independence. Michael Brown, a historian at Scotland’s University of St. Andrews, says that Wallace is remembered as “the disinterested patriotic hero whose only concern was the liberty and protection of his fellow Scots.” Comparatively, “Bruce is a successful politician. He achieves more, but in some ways his hands are dirtier.”

Braveheart famously depicts Bruce (played by Angus MacFayden) betraying Wallace during the Battle of Falkirk in 1298, then having a change of heart and rescuing the downed Scots leader from the wrath of the English. Yet there’s no historical evidence Bruce was at Falkirk, nor that he directly betrayed Wallace (although he did switch sides several times in these early years). As Brown explains, the story is mainly cited to reflect how Wallace’s failure inspired Bruce’s later success: “[There’s] the idea of Wallace standing in for Bruce in a sense, but Bruce failing to perform that [leadership] role at that stage.”

The defeat at Falkirk marked the unofficial end of Wallace’s campaign—he resigned as Guardian of Scotland and went on the run. This is where Outlaw King picks up. With the independence movement largely crushed, Bruce and most of the Scottish lords submitted to Edward’s authority.

***

John Comyn continued battling the English until February 1304, when he negotiated peace terms that restored Scotland’s “laws, usages, customs and liberties” and provided for a representative assembly. Around this time, Bruce returned to Scotland, likely with an eye toward the crown vacated by the still-exiled Balliol. Watson, author of Traitor, Outlaw, King, describes the soon-to-be king’s actions during this period as “incredibly duplicitous.” He’d pledged fealty to Edward I and England, but this didn’t stop him from forming a vague agreement of mutual support with the powerful Bishop of St. Andrews.

This tangled web of alliances culminated in that deadly February 10, 1306, meeting between Bruce and Comyn, the two main contenders for the Scottish throne. It’s uncertain what the pair actually discussed, but the near-contemporary Flores Historiarum posits that Bruce had “first secretly and then openly” begun gathering support for his claim. When asked if he’d agree to crown his rival, Comyn “firmly replied no … so [Bruce] slaughtered him.”

Watson says she is convinced Bruce arrived in Dumfries with the intention of striking down Comyn, whom he worried was on the verge of claiming the Scottish crown.

“[Bruce] was utterly consistent, utterly ruthless and utterly convinced that he should be the king of Scots,” she says, arguing that his ever-changing allegiances reflected, in his point of view, an “entirely consistent” means of achieving this singular goal.

Brown offers a more sympathetic reading that attributes the act of “unpremeditated violence” to personal antagonism between Bruce and Comyn. As he points out, Comyn’s death alienated Bruce from his victim’s powerful family, an unwise step given the coming resumption of hostilities with England. The circumstances of the murder also led Pope Clement V to excommunicate Bruce, complicating his already uncertain path forward.

In the weeks between killing Comyn and ascending to the throne, Bruce rallied support in southwest Scotland. He issued demands to Edward I, promising to “defend himself with the longest stick that he had” if they went unmet, and received absolution for his sins from the Bishop of Glasgow.

Declared a fugitive for both his sacrilege and breach of fealty, Bruce had little to lose by going one step further and seizing the crown. On March 25, 1306, he was invested with the Scottish kingship in a surprisingly elaborate ceremony held at Scone Abbey. Despite lacking the traditional coronation stone, diadem and scepter, all of which had transferred to England in 1296, Robert officially became King of Scots.

***

Some 40 years after the First War of Scottish Independence, Archbishop John Barbour composed an epic retelling of the conflict. Heavily situated in the “Bruce as hero” camp, the poem characterizes the period between Bruce’s coronation and his victory at Bannockburn in 1314 as a journey of redemption.

Comyn’s killing was “obviously homicide,” Brown explains, “but it's also blasphemy and treason. So those crimes are ones that Bruce has to expunge from his soul by his … struggles and his suffering.”

As Outlaw King attests, Bruce’s troubles started soon after he was crowned king. Edward sent Aymer de Valence, Comyn’s brother-in-law, to crush the rebellion. By early June, de Valence had captured two of Bruce’s key supporters, the bishops of St. Andrews and Glasgow, and secured the aid of Scots loyal to Comyn.

During the summer of 1306, Bruce suffered two defeats in quick succession: At the June 19 Battle of Methven, de Valence took the Scottish forces completely by surprise with an early morning sneak attack. Just under two months later, Bruce faced off with members of the MacDougall clan, an ally of the Comyns, at Dalrigh. Outnumbered and unprepared, the Scots king’s army rapidly dispersed. Bruce barely evaded capture, and over the next several months, he experienced a string of personal tragedies. Three of his four brothers fell into English hands and were hung, drawn and quartered. His wife, daughter and sisters were similarly betrayed and remained Edward’s prisoners until 1315.

At a certain point, Michael Penman writes in Robert the Bruce, it becomes difficult to trace the Scottish king’s movements. He spent the winter in hiding, perhaps on an island off the western coast, and, according to a popular but likely apocryphal tale, passed the hours by observing a spider in a cave. Disheartened by his military and personal losses, Bruce allegedly saw echoes of his struggle in the spider’s repeated attempts to swing itself from one corner to another. When the spider finally succeeded, it inspired Bruce to launch a second wave of rebellion.

Despite the spider legend’s suspect origins, Michael Brown says the story exemplifies Bruce’s reputation as a “model of perseverance.” This tenacity also forms an undercurrent of The Outlaw King, which finds its protagonist declaring himself “done with running and … sick of hiding.”

In both the film and historical record, 1307 marks a turning point in Scotland’s drive for independence. Bruce returned with a set of revamped guerrilla tactics that took advantage of the country’s rugged terrain. In doing so, he created a model of Scottish warfare that lasted long beyond his fight.

“It’s essentially run away and hide,” Brown explains. “Take to the hills, harry [the enemy’s] flanks, stop them living off of the land, but don’t risk a battle.”

Bruce’s forces secured a minor victory at the Battle of Glen Trool—really more of a skirmish—in April 1307. The following month, the Scots faced off with de Valence once again, this time at Loudoun Hill. Prior to the battle, Bruce surveyed the area and concocted a plan to restrict the movements of de Valence’s horsemen, who would otherwise overwhelm the Scottish spearmen fighting on foot. As Fiona Watson writes in Robert the Bruce, the newly confident commander ordered three trenches dug at right angles to the road, ensuring that only a limited number of cavalry would be able to reach the Scots ensconced within. The English outnumbered Bruce’s men by 3,000 to 600, according to Barbour’s poem, but were wary to ride directly into the Scottish warriors’ spears. Those who did found themselves dashed upon the ground, and as the battle drew to a close, Barbour notes that “one might hear the sound / Of shivered lances and the cry / Of wounded men in agony.”

Outlaw King concludes soon after the Battle of Loudoun Hill, content to treat this victory as a sign of the war’s changing tides (and as a proxy for the better-known Battle of Bannockburn, a 1314 meeting that saw the Scots defeat similarly superior English forces). The meeting certainly proved, in Watson’s words, that “even if Bruce had been excommunicated by the pope for the murder of John Comyn, God could still favor him.”

In reality, the fight for independence trundled on for another 21 years, concluding only with the Treaty of Edinburgh-Northampton in March 1328. By this point, Edward I was long gone—he died in July 1307, leaving his infamously inept son Edward II in control—and it was his grandson Edward III, newly ascended to the throne in place of his deposed father, who actually agreed to Bruce’s terms.

***

Bruce died on June 7, 1329, just one month shy of his 55th birthday. Although he’d only enjoyed one year of peacetime, the king went to his grave secure in the knowledge that Scotland’s sovereignty was safe—at least for the time being. Before his death, Bruce asked longtime friend James “Black” Douglas (Outlaw King’s Aaron Taylor-Johnson plays the Scottish lord with frenetic fervor) to bring his heart on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Unfortunately, the ever-restless Douglas stopped to support Spain’s Alfonso XI in his campaign against the Moors and was killed in battle. According to legend, he threw the casket holding Bruce’s heart ahead of him before entering the fray, declaring, “Lead on brave heart, I’ll follow thee.” Bruce’s heart was ultimately retrieved and interred at Melrose Abbey, while the rest of his body was laid to rest in the royal mausoleum at Dunfermline Abbey. The king’s epitaph, somewhat ironically, declared Bruce “the unconquered Robert, blessed king … [who] brought to freedom / the Kingdom of the Scots.”

The image of Bruce as model king and consummate defender of Scotland endures to this day, but the man behind the myth is harder to pinpoint: Whereas predecessor William Wallace is, according to Brown, “the disinterested patriotic hero whose only concern was the liberty and protection of his fellow Scots,” Bruce is a figure whose early years were marked by murder at the high altar, shifting loyalties and a string of military failures. It’s also worth noting that the peaceful independence Bruce fought for lasted just a few years, with hostilities starting up again in 1332 and continuing sporadically until the 1707 Act of Union brought England and Scotland together under the single entity of Great Britain. But Brown argues that Bruce’s accomplishments weren’t diminished by the Act of Union. In fact, he says, the legendary king came to be “the guarantor of Scottish liberties” within the united realm.

Watson summarizes Bruce’s legacy best, concluding in Traitor, Outlaw, King that it’s natural to suspect the warrior king’s motives.

“But,” she concludes, “we cannot deny his achievements.”

====== 49 ========

THE THIBODAUX MASSACRE LEFT 60 AFRICAN-AMERICANS DEAD AND SPELLED THE END OF UNIONIZED FARM LABOR IN THE SOUTH FOR DECADES

On November 23, 1887, a mass shooting of African-American farm workers in Louisiana left some 60 dead. Bodies were dumped in unmarked graves while the white press cheered a victory against a fledgling black union. It was one of the bloodiest days in United States labor history, and while statues went up and public places were named for some of those involved, there is no marker of the Thibodaux Massacre.

Days after, a local planter widow Mary Pugh wrote, “I think this will settle the question of who is to rule the nigger or the white man for the next fifty years.” It was a far-sighted comment— black farm workers in the South wouldn’t have the opportunity to unionize for generations.

Years after the Thirteenth Amendment brought freedom, cane cutters’ working lives were already “barely distinguishable” from slavery, argues journalist and author John DeSantis. (His book, The Thibodaux Massacre: Racial Violence and the 1887 Sugar Cane Labor Strike, is an excellent and compelling account of the massacre.) With no land to own or rent, workers and their families lived in old slave cabins. They toiled in gangs, just like their ancestors had for nearly a century. Growers gave workers meals but paid famine wages of as little as 42 cents a day (91 cents per hour in today’s money, for a 12-hour shift).

Instead of cash, workers got scrip that bought basics at high prices at plantation stores.

But they had advantages that their counterparts in cotton areas lacked. Planters needed their labor, and growers living on thin margins failed to attract migrant laborers to replace local workers, especially in the crucial rolling season when the sugarcane needed to be cut and pressed in short order.

In the sugar parishes arcing through the southern part of the state from Berwick Bay to the Mississippi River, African-American men voted. The Republican Party, which supported black civil rights, was stronger in sugar country than anywhere else in the state. By the late 1860s, African-Americans became legislators or sheriffs, and black volunteer militias drilled, despite living and working conditions still bearing the marks of slavery.

In 1874, nine years after slavery ended in the United States, cane cutters demanded a second emancipation. They wanted a living wage, or at least the chance to rent on shares. Planters wanted to cut wages after the lean harvest of 1873-74 coincided with an economic recession, and while Louisiana growers produced 95 percent of the nation’s domestic sugar and molasses, they were losing market share to cheaper foreign sugars.

Sensing they were in a strong bargaining position, workers banded together in several sugar parishes, including St. Mary, Iberia, Terrebonne, and Lafourche, demanding cash wages of $1.25 per day, or $1.00 if meals were included.

But the growers refused, upset that African-American workers were demanding an end to their paternalistic work regime. So African-American leaders like Hamp Keys, a former Terrebonne Parish legislator, called a strike.

Keys led a march from Houma to Southdown Plantation in Terrebonne, rallying workers with a fiery speech. The sight of black protesters riled growers, and acting with their interests in mind, the parish’s African-American sheriff formed a posse of whites to face down strikers. Surprised at the opposition, Keys’s marchers retreated.

In the state capital of New Orleans (relocated to Baton Rouge in 1882), Republican Governor William Pitt Kellogg also backed growers. But he was under siege from the Louisiana White League, a paramilitary white supremacist group formed in 1874 to intimidate Republicans and keep African-Americans from voting. Despite Kellogg’s being a pro-growth moderate who favored low taxes, White Leaguers tried to oust him in a violent coup. The Battle of Liberty Place, as it was called, pitted white militiamen against federal troops and metropolitan police. Governor Kellogg was temporarily forced out of New Orleans. He returned under guard but would be Louisiana’s last Republican governor for more than 100 years.

America was retreating from Republican-led Reconstruction and abandoning civil rights. African-Americans in sugar regions kept the right to vote, but their influence in state elections was waning. As W. E. B. Du Bois put it in Black Reconstruction in America, “The slave went free; stood a brief moment in the sun; then moved back again into slavery.”

Sugar workers attempted another strike in 1880, and both growers and workers resorted to sporadic violence. But time was on the growers’ side. African-Americans were being disarmed and thrown out of office, and some were leased out to hard labor for petty and trumped-up crimes. With few options available by 1887, Terrebonne sugar workers reached out to the Knights of Labor.

The Knights was the biggest and most powerful union in America. It began organizing African-American workers in 1883 in separate locals (a local is a bargaining unit of a broader union). Despite segregation, the Knights organized women and farm workers. And it made strides against Jim Crow. At the Knights’ 1886 national convention in Richmond, Virginia, leaders risked violence by insisting that a black delegate introduce Virginia’s segregationist governor.

Across the states of the former Confederacy, whites viewed organized labor as agitation that threatened the emerging Jim Crow order. Even in the North and Midwest, the Knights fought an uphill battle against authorities who sided with railroad and mine owners. Several states called out militias to break strikes during the late nineteenth century, but the Knights was at its peak of popularity in the 1880s.

In Louisiana, the Knights organized sugar workers into seven locals of 100 to 150 members each. Hamp Keys joined former black leaders like ex-sheriff William Kennedy. In August of 1887, the Knights met with the St. Mary branch of the Louisiana Sugar Planters Association asking for improved wages. And again the growers refused.

So the Knights raised the stakes in October of 1887 as the rolling season approached. Junius Bailey, a 29-year-old schoolteacher, served as local president in Terrebonne. His office sent a communique all over the region asking for $1.25 a day cash wages, and local workers’ committees followed up, going directly to growers with the same demand.

But instead of bargaining, growers fired union members. Planters like future Supreme Court Chief Justice Edward Douglass White kicked workers off the land, ordering any who stayed arrested. Siding with growers, Democratic newspapers circulated false reports of black-on-white violence. “The most vicious and unruly set of negroes,” were at the Rienzi Plantation near Thibodaux, the New Orleans Daily Picayune reported. “The leader of them said to-day that no power on earth could remove them unless they were moved as corpses.”

As the cane ripened, growers called on the governor to use muscle against the strikers. And Samuel D. McEnery, Democratic governor and former planter, obliged, calling for the assistance of several all-white Louisiana militias under the command of ex-Confederate General P. G. T. Beauregard. One group toted a .45 caliber Gatling gun--a hand-cranked machine gun--around two parishes before parking it in front of the Thibodaux courthouse. An army cannon was set up in front of the jail.

Then the killings started. In St. Mary, the Attakapas Rangers joined a sheriff’s posse facing down a group of black strikers. When one of the workers reached into a pocket, posse members opened fire on the crowd, “and four men were shot dead where they stood,” a newspaper reported. Terror broke the strike in St. Mary Parish.

In neighboring Terrebonne, some small growers came to the bargaining table, but larger planters hired strike-breakers from Vicksburg, Mississippi, 200 miles to the north, promising high wages and bringing them down on trains. The replacement workers were also African Americans, but they lacked experience in the canebrakes. As they arrived, militiamen evicted strikers.

And Thibodaux, in Lafourche Parish, was becoming a refuge for displaced workers. Some moved into vacant houses in town, while others camped along bayous and roadsides. Reports circulated of African-American women gossiping about a planned riot. Violence broke out in nearby Lockport on Bayou Lafourche when Moses Pugh, a black worker, shot and wounded Richard Foret, a planter, in self-defense. A militia unit arrived and mounted a bayonet charge on gathered workers, firing a volley in the air.

But the strike was gaining national attention. “Do the workingmen of the country understand the significance of this movement?” asked Washington D.C.’s National Republican, pointing out that sugar workers were “forced to work at starvation wages, in the richest spot under the American flag.” If forced back to the fields at gun point, no wage worker was safe from employer intimidation.

In Thibodaux, Lafourche Parish District Judge Taylor Beattie declared martial law. Despite being a Republican, Beattie was an ex-Confederate and White League member. He authorized local white vigilantes to barricade the town, identifying strikers and demanding passes from any African-American coming or going. And before dawn on Wednesday, the 23rd of November, pistol shots coming from a cornfield injured two white guards.

The response was a massacre. “There were several companies of white men and they went around night and day shooting colored men who took part in the strike,” said Reverend T. Jefferson Rhodes of the Moses Baptist Church in Thibodaux. Going from house to house, gunmen ordered Jack Conrad (a Union Civil War Veteran), his son Grant, and his brother-in-law Marcelin out of their house. Marcelin protested he was not a striker but was shot and killed anyway. As recounted in John DeSantis' book, Clarisse Conrad watched as her brother Grant “got behind a barrel and the white men got behind the house and shot him dead.” Jack Conrad was shot several times in the arms and chest. He lived and later identified one of the attackers as his employer.

One strike leader found in an attic was taken to the town common, told to run, and shot to pieces by a firing squad. An eyewitness told a newspaper that “no less than thirty-five negroes were killed outright,” including old and young, men and women. “The negroes offered no resistance; they could not, as the killing was unexpected.” Survivors took to the woods and swamps. Killings continued on plantations, and bodies were dumped in a site that became a landfill.

Workers returned to the fields on growers’ terms while whites cheered a Jim Crow victory. The Daily Picayune blamed black unionizers for the violence, saying that they provoked white citizens, suggesting the strikers “would burn the town and end the lives of the white women and children with their cane knives.” Flipping the narrative, the paper argued, “It was no longer a question of against labor, but one of law-abiding citizens against assassins.”

The union died with the strikers, and the assassins went unpunished. There was no federal inquiry, and even the coroner’s inquest refused to point a finger at the murderers. Sugar planter Andrew Price was among the attackers that morning. He won a seat in Congress the next year.

The massacre helped keep unions out of the South at just the moment it was industrializing. Textile manufacturers were moving out of New England, chasing low wages. And after textile factories closed in the 20th century, auto, manufacturing, and energy companies opened in southern states in part for the non-union workforce.

Southern black farm workers would not attempt to unionize again, until the 1930s when the Southern Tenant Farmers Union attracted both white and African American members. But it too was met by a violent racist backlash. The struggle for southern unions continued into the Civil Rights era. On the night before he was assassinated in Memphis, Martin Luther King Jr. gave a speech supporting striking sanitation workers. He urged his audience “to give ourselves to this struggle until the end. ...You may not be on strike. But either we go up together, or we go down together.”

Editor's Note, December 4, 2017: This story has been updated to further highlight the exceptional research conducted by author John DeSantis in his book. It has also been edited to remove the reference to Jack Conrad being a labor organizer. Due to an editing error, the photo caption incorrectly listed Laurel Valley as a place of refuge for African-American planters.

====== 50 ========

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE SALEM WITCH TRIALS

The Salem witch trials occurred in colonial Massachusetts between 1692 and 1693. More than 200 people were accused of practicing witchcraft—the Devil's magic—and 20 were executed. Eventually, the colony admitted the trials were a mistake and compensated the families of those convicted. Since then, the story of the trials has become synonymous with paranoia and injustice, and it continues to beguile the popular imagination more than 300 years later.

Salem Struggling

Several centuries ago, many practicing Christians, and those of other religions, had a strong belief that the Devil could give certain people known as witches the power to harm others in return for their loyalty. A "witchcraft craze" rippled through Europe from the 1300s to the end of the 1600s. Tens of thousands of supposed witches—mostly women—were executed. Though the Salem trials came on just as the European craze was winding down, local circumstances explain their onset.

In 1689, English rulers William and Mary started a war with France in the American colonies. Known as King William's War to colonists, it ravaged regions of upstate New York, Nova Scotia and Quebec, sending refugees into the county of Essex and, specifically, Salem Village in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. (Salem Village is present-day Danvers, Massachusetts; colonial Salem Town became what's now Salem.)

The displaced people created a strain on Salem's resources. This aggravated the existing rivalry between families with ties to the wealth of the port of Salem and those who still depended on agriculture. Controversy also brewed over Reverend Samuel Parris, who became Salem Village's first ordained minister in 1689, and was disliked because of his rigid ways and greedy nature. The Puritan villagers believed all the quarreling was the work of the Devil.

In January of 1692, Reverend Parris' daughter Elizabeth, age 9, and niece Abigail Williams, age 11, started having "fits." They screamed, threw things, uttered peculiar sounds and contorted themselves into strange positions, and a local doctor blamed the supernatural. Another girl, Ann Putnam, age 11, experienced similar episodes. On February 29, under pressure from magistrates Jonathan Corwin and John Hathorne, the girls blamed three women for afflicting them: Tituba, the Parris' Caribbean slave; Sarah Good, a homeless beggar; and Sarah Osborne, an elderly impoverished woman.

Witch Hunt

All three women were brought before the local magistrates and interrogated for several days, starting on March 1, 1692. Osborne claimed innocence, as did Good. But Tituba confessed, "The Devil came to me and bid me serve him." She described elaborate images of black dogs, red cats, yellow birds and a "black man" who wanted her to sign his book. She admitted that she signed the book and said there were several other witches looking to destroy the Puritans. All three women were put in jail.

With the seed of paranoia planted, a stream of accusations followed for the next few months. Charges against Martha Corey, a loyal member of the Church in Salem Village, greatly concerned the community; if she could be a witch, then anyone could. Magistrates even questioned Sarah Good's 4-year-old daughter, Dorothy, and her timid answers were construed as a confession. The questioning got more serious in April when Deputy Governor Thomas Danforth and his assistants attended the hearings. Dozens of people from Salem and other Massachusetts villages were brought in for questioning.

On May 27, 1692, Governor William Phipps ordered the establishment of a Special Court of Oyer (to hear) and Terminer (to decide) for Suffolk, Essex and Middlesex counties. The first case brought to the special court was Bridget Bishop, an older woman known for her gossipy habits and promiscuity. When asked if she committed witchcraft, Bishop responded, "I am as innocent as the child unborn." The defense must not have been convincing, because she was found guilty and, on June 10, became the first person hanged on what was later called Gallows Hill.

Five days later, respected minister Cotton Mather wrote a letter imploring the court not to allow spectral evidence—testimony about dreams and visions. The court largely ignored this request and five people were sentenced and hanged in July, five more in August and eight in September. On October 3, following in his son's footsteps, Increase Mather, then president of Harvard, denounced the use of spectral evidence: "It were better that ten suspected witches should escape than one innocent person be condemned."

Governor Phipps, in response to Mather's plea and his own wife being questioned for witchcraft, prohibited further arrests, released many accused witches and dissolved the Court of Oyer and Terminer on October 29. Phipps replaced it with a Superior Court of Judicature, which disallowed spectral evidence and only condemned 3 out of 56 defendants. Phipps eventually pardoned all who were in prison on witchcraft charges by May 1693. But the damage had been done: 19 were hanged on Gallows Hill, a 71-year-old man was pressed to death with heavy stones, several people died in jail and nearly 200 people, overall, had been accused of practicing "the Devil's magic."

Restoring Good Names

Following the trials and executions, many involved, like judge Samuel Sewall, publicly confessed error and guilt. On January 14, 1697, the General Court ordered a day of fasting and soul-searching for the tragedy of Salem. In 1702, the court declared the trials unlawful. And in 1711, the colony passed a bill restoring the rights and good names of those accused and granted £600 restitution to their heirs. However, it was not until 1957—more than 250 years later—that Massachusetts formally apologized for the events of 1692.

In the 20th century, artists and scientists alike continued to be fascinated by the Salem witch trials. Playwright Arthur Miller resurrected the tale with his 1953 play The Crucible, using the trials as an allegory for the McCarthyism paranoia in the 1950s. Additionally, numerous hypotheses have been devised to explain the strange behavior that occurred in Salem in 1692. One of the most concrete studies, published in Science in 1976 by psychologist Linnda Caporael, blamed the abnormal habits of the accused on the fungus ergot, which can be found in rye, wheat and other cereal grasses. Toxicologists say that eating ergot-contaminated foods can lead to muscle spasms, vomiting, delusions and hallucinations. Also, the fungus thrives in warm and damp climates—not too unlike the swampy meadows in Salem Village, where rye was the staple grain during the spring and summer months.

In August 1992, to mark the 300th anniversary of the trials, Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel dedicated the Witch Trials Memorial in Salem. Also in Salem, the Peabody Essex Museum houses the original court documents, and the town's most-visited attraction, the Salem Witch Museum, attests to the public's enthrallment with the 1692 hysteria.

Editor's note - October 27, 2011: Thanks to Professor Darin Hayton for pointing out an error in this article. While the exact number of supposed witches killed in Europe isn't known, the best estimate is closer to tens of thousands of victims, not hundreds of thousands. We have fixed the text to address this issue.

====== 51 ========

P.T. BARNUM ISN’T THE HERO THE “GREATEST SHOWMAN” WANTS YOU TO THINK

Some five decades into his life, Phineas Taylor Barnum from Bethel, Connecticut, had remade himself from his humble beginnings as an impoverished country boy into a showman—indeed the “greatest showman,” as the new musical about his life would say—of his generation.

Thanks to a combination of brilliant marketing tactics and less-than-upstanding business practices, Barnum had truly arrived, and with his book Humbugs of the World, in 1865, Barnum wanted to inform you, his audience, that he hadn’t achieved his rags-to-riches success story by scamming the public.

Barnum's career trafficked in curiosities, which he served up to a public hungry for such entertainment, regardless of how factual or ethical such displays were. His legacy in show business stretched from the American Museum to "P. T. Barnum's Grand Traveling Museum, Menagerie, Caravan & Hippodrome" (the predecessor of “Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey” circus) near the end of his life. Each were full of bigger-than-life ideas marketed to an audience interested in mass, and often crass, entertainment.

As it was “generally understood,” Barnum wrote in the book, the term humbug “consists in putting on glittering appearances—outside show—novel expedients, by which to suddenly arrest public attention, and attract the public eye and ear.” And Barnum wanted to make it clear such a practice was justified. “[T]here are various trades and occupations which need only notoriety to insure success,” he claimed, concluding no harm, no foul, so long as at the end of the day customers felt like they got their money’s worth.

Growing up in the antebellum North, Barnum took his first real dip into showmanship at age 25 when he purchased the right to “rent” an aged black woman by the name of Joice Heth, whom an acquaintance was trumpeting around Philadelphia as the 161-year-old former nurse of George Washington.

By this time, Barnum had tried working as a lottery manager, a shopkeeper and newspaper editor. He was living in New York City, employed at a boarding home and in a grocery store, and was hungry for a money-making gimmick.

"I had long fancied that I could succeed if I could only get hold of a public exhibition,” he reflected about his life at the time in his 1855 autobiography, The Life of P.T. Barnum, Written by Himself.

With Heth, he saw an opportunity to strike it rich. Though slavery was outlawed in Pennsylvania and New York at the time, a loophole allowed him to lease her for a year for $1,000, borrowing $500 to complete the sale.



In a research paper on Barnum and his legacy misrepresenting African peoples, Bernth Lindfors, professor emeritus at the University of Texas at Austin, aptly sums up significance of that dark transaction as the launching point of Barnum the showman— someone who “began his career in show business by going into debt to buy a superannuated female slave, who turned out to be a fraud."

It’s a story that The Greatest Showman, which presents Barnum as a smooth-talking Harold Hill-type lovable con, doesn’t address. Hugh Jackman’s Barnum would never be a person comfortable purchasing an enslaved woman to turn a tidy profit. “Rewrite the Stars,” indeed, to quote a song from the new movie.

As Benjamin Reiss, professor and chair of English at Emory University, and author of The Showman and The Slave, of Barnum, explains in an interview with Smithsonian.com, Barnum’s legacy has become a sort of cultural touchstone. “The story of his life that we choose to tell is in part the story that we choose to tell about American culture,” he says. “We can choose to erase things or dance around touchy subjects and present a kind of feel good story, or we can use it as an opportunity to look at very complex and troubling histories that our culture has been grappling with for centuries.”

That begins with Heth, Barnum’s first big break. It was while on tour with her when he observed a public hungry for spectacle. “Human curiosities, or lusus naturae—freaks of nature—were among the most popular traveling entertainments of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries,” Reiss explains in his book, but by the time Barnum went on tour with Heth, there was a shift. “[B]y the 1830s the display of grotesquely embodied human forms was for some populist carnivalesque entertainment and for others an offense to genteel sensibilities,” Reiss writes. So while the Jacksonian press in New York, “the vanguard of mass culture,” covered Heth’s shows breathlessly, he found while following Barnum’s paper trail that the more old-fashioned New England press bristled at the display. As the newspaper the Courier wrote cuttingly:

“Those who imagine they can contemplate with delight a breathing skeleton, subjected to the same sort of discipline that is sometimes exercised in a menagerie to induce the inferior animals to play unnatural pranks for the amusement of barren spectators, will find food to their taste by visiting Joice Heth.”

Still, with Heth, Barnum proved himself capable of being nimble enough to dip and swerve, playing up different stories of her to appeal to different audiences across the northeast. Heth, of course, was not alive in George Washington’s time. Whether Barnum believed the fable frankly doesn’t really matter. While he later claimed he did, he wasn’t above making up his own myths about Heth to attract people to see her; he once planted a story that claimed the enslaved woman wasn’t even a person at all. “What purports to be a remarkably old woman is simply a curiously constructed automaton,” he wrote.

When she died in February 1836, rather than let her go in peace, Barnum had one more act up his sleeve: he drummed up a final public spectacle, hosting a live autopsy in a New York Saloon. There, 1500 spectators paid 50 cents to see the dead woman cut up, “revealing” that she was likely half her purported age.

After Heth, Barnum found several other acts to tour—notably the coup of getting the world-famous Jenny Lind, “the Swedish Nightingale,” to travel across the Atlantic to make her critically and popularly acclaimed American debut with him—until he became the proprietor of the American Museum in December 1841 in New York.

At the American Museum, more than 4,000 visitors poured per day to browse some 850,000 “interesting curiosities” at the price of 25 cents a trip. The fake and the real commingled in the space, with imported, exotic live animals mixing alongside hoaxes like the so-called Feejee mermaid, a preserved monkey’s head sewn onto the preserved tail of a fish.

Most uncomfortably, in the museum, Barnum continued to present “freakishness” in the form of “living curiosities.” One of the most popular displays featured a man billed as “a creature, found in the wilds of Africa...supposed to be a mixture of the wild native African and the orang outang, a kind of man-monkey.” The offensive poster concluded: “For want of a positive name, the creature was called ‘WHAT IS IT?’”

In truth, WHAT IS IT? was an African-American man named William Henry Johnson. Before coming to the show, he served as a cook for another showman in Barnum’s Connecticut hometown. Similar racial othering permeated the rest of Barnum’s “living curiosities,” from the “Aztec” children who were actually from El Salvador, to the real, but exoticized, “Siamese Twins,” Chang and Eng.

As James W. Cook, professor of history and American studies at the University of Michigan, argues in The Art of Deception: Playing with Fraud in the Age of Barnum, it was because of the “bipartisan mass audience” he built through such displays, which preyed on ideas of African inferiority and racial othering, that Barnum then decided to throw his hat into the political ring.

During his successful run for the Connecticut General Assembly in 1865 something changed, however. Suddenly, Cook writes, Barnum “began to express a novel sympathy and regret about the subjugation of African-Americans—or at least to approach civil rights matters at the end of the Civil War with a new, somewhat softer vision of racial paternalism.” During a failed run for Congress, he even “confessed” during a campaign speech that while living in the South he had owned slaves himself, actions he since regretted. “I did more,” he said. “I whipped my slaves. I ought to have been whipped a thousand times for this myself. But by then I was a Democrat—one of those nondescript Democrats, who are Northern men with Southern principles.”

It’s a powerful speech, but how much of his remorse was spin is hard to say. “With Barnum you never know if that’s part of the act or the contrition was genuine,” says Reiss. “People change and it’s possible he really did feel this, although throughout his career as a showman there were many episodes of exhibiting non-white people in degrading ways.”

With Heth at least, as Reiss says, he clearly viewed her as an opportunity and a piece of property at the beginning, something he bragged about constantly early in his career. But after he gained growing respectability following the Civil War, the story he so proudly boasted about changed.

That's because, when you break it down, as Reiss says, “he owned this woman, worked her for 10 to 12 hours a day near the end of her life, worked her to death and then, exploited her after death.” This history becomes, suddenly, an unsavory chapter for Barnum and so, Reiss says, there’s a shift in how he relays the story. He observes that his “narration gets shorter and shorter, more and more apologetic to the end.” Barnum’s later retelling rewrites history, as Reiss says, it “makes it seem like he didn’t quite know what he was doing and this was just a little blip on his road to greatness. In fact, this was the thing that started his career.”

Today, Barnum and his career arguably serve as a Rorschach test for where we are, and what kind of humbug tale we are willing to be sold. But if you’re looking clear eyed at Barnum, an undeniable fact of his biography is his role marketing racism to the masses. “He had these new ways of making racism seem fun and for people to engage in activities that degraded a racially subjected person in ways that were intimate and funny and surprising and novel,” says Reiss. “That’s part of his legacy, that’s part of what he left us, just as he also left us some really great jokes and circus acts and this kind of charming, wise-cracking ‘America’s uncle’ reputation. This is equally a part of his legacy.”

Rather than explore such dark notes, The Greatest Showman is more interested in spinning a pretty tale, a humbug, if you will, of a magnitude, that Barnum himself would likely tip his hat to.

But as the late historian Daniel Boorstin put it in his critical text, The Image, perhaps this revisionary storytelling shouldn’t be a surprise to those paying attention.

“Contrary to popular belief,” as Boorstin wrote, “Barnum's great discovery was not how easy it was to deceive the public, but rather, how much the public enjoyed being deceived.”

====== 52 ========

THESE MINESWEEPING BOATS PAVED THE WAY FOR D-DAY

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 53 ========

A HONEY BADGER AND MOLE SNAKE FIGHT TO THE DEATH

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 54 ========

WHY BUILDING A CARBON FIBER CAR IS SO LABOR-INTENSIVE

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 55 ========

HOW KYLE MEYER’S PHOTO-TAPESTRIES GIVE VOICE TO A SILENCED COMMUNITY

When artist Kyle Meyer began photographing gay men in Swaziland, or eSwatini, five years ago, his subjects were initially wary about the exposure. Their concern was justified: Same-sex relationships are against the law there, and people who are suspected of being gay risk unemployment, ostracism and even violence.

“The LGBT community is pushed into a corner,” says Meyer, 33, whose series “Interwoven” explores sexual and gender identities in the southern African country. Meyer, who is openly gay and lives in New York, was forced back into the closet when he began traveling to Swaziland. “I could have easily ‘disappeared,’” he says.

Despite their anxieties, the men who agreed to have their portraits taken for the project, on view this month at the Yossi Milo Gallery in Manhattan, seemed to relish the idea of finally being seen for who they are. Inspired by the vibrant colors of Swazi wax cloth, Meyer asked them to pose wearing elaborate headdresses in patterns each man chose from fabric collected at a local market. Because the style is traditionally associated with Swazi women, the photo shoots offered a rare chance to play with gender norms and celebrate each man’s individual sense of beauty. “They just wanted to be heard,” Meyer says.

After every visit to Swaziland, Meyer returns to his Hudson Valley studio, where he prints the images on paper up to seven-and-a-half feet high. He then shreds the photographs and the fabric from the head wraps, and, using a technique he learned from Swazi basketmakers, spends as much as 60 hours weaving them together. It’s a meditative process—both craft and ritual—that adds a human touch to the otherwise mechanical medium of digital photography, and transforms what might simply be a striking image into an imposing, richly textured physical object. One critic praised the undertaking as “the perfect marriage of subject matter and process.” It is also practical: Meyer’s approach partially obscures the men’s identities, much as they are forced to hide their true selves behind what the artist calls “the fabric of society.”

It remains too dangerous to display his tapestries in Swaziland, but Meyer is hopeful they will be seen there one day. This past June a gay rights group organized the country’s first Pride parade, a festive—and peaceful—march through the capital.

====== 56 ========

THE UNFORGOTTEN: NEW VOICES OF THE HOLOCAUST

Never forget.

That has always been the idea behind teaching the Holocaust in schools and listening to eyewitness accounts. But as we mark the 80th anniversary of Kristallnacht this month and the youngest Holocaust survivors enter their ninth decade, the world is showing dangerous signs of memory loss.

In the United States, the number of neo-Nazi groups has been rising, from 99 in 2017 to 122 in 2018, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. Fascist groups are brazenly gathering and scoring political victories across Europe, from France and Hungary to Poland and, incredibly, Italy and Germany. Just last year a far-right German politician attacked the very premise of Berlin’s Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, saying, “This laughable policy of coming to terms with the past is crippling us.”

We at Smithsonian profoundly disagree. The work of coming to terms with the past and connecting it to the present is essential. The five stories that follow are about recovering lost history and understanding what happens when innocent young people are caught in the machinery of hatred and war.

Our main story is by Renia Spiegel, a spirited Polish teenager who spent her last days hiding from the Nazis. Her gift to us today is her journal, an eloquent account of a young woman’s consciousness blossoming in the midst of unimagined evil. Three-quarters of a century later, Smithsonian has translated her diary into English for the first time and drawn from the whole text to present her voice, her aspirations, her vivid observations, her rich emotional life. It’s a vital new contribution to our collective memory of the historic tragedy that the world seems on the verge of forgetting.

====== 57 ========

STEP INTO CLAUDE MONET’S WORLD WITH THIS IMMERSIVE VR EXPLORATION OF ‘WATER LILIES’

Visiting the Musée de l’Orangerie’s “Water Lilies” rooms—an oblong pair of galleries fitted with eight panoramic panels from Claude Monet’s seminal series—is an immersive experience in and of itself. But as Flora Eveno reports for Belgian news outlet RTBF, individuals stopping by the Paris museum can now opt to literally immerse themselves in Monet's masterpieces through a virtual reality tour of the French Impressionist’s world.

The VR experience, called “Claude Monet: The Water Lily Obsession,” transports visitors to the artist’s Giverny home and, most importantly, his garden. Monet spent the last 30-odd years of his life chronicling this landscape in more than 250 installments of the “Water Lilies” series, Mental Floss’ Kristy Puchko notes. The artist personally cultivated the diverse assortment of plant life scattered across the property, even importing his eponymous water lilies from Egypt and South America. (The move, incidentally, attracted the ire of local authorities who were less interested in Monet’s vision and more concerned that the foreign plants would poison the area’s water supply.)

According to a press release, the roughly 8-minute immersion traces Monet’s “Water Lilies” from inception to exhibition. “You stand in the shallow waters at Giverny, inspired as he was inspired by the dappled light and fickle seasons waxing and waning across the lilies and bulrushes,” the visceral statement notes. “You are then transported to Monet’s studio, where a virtual canvas is stretched taut above and around you and the artist’s bold, searing brushstrokes build up across your vision.”

“The Water Lily Obsession” debuted at the Musée de l’Orangerie this month, Blouin Artinfo reports, and will remain on view through March 11, 2019, as part of the museum’s ongoing exploration of Monet’s close relationship with French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau. As Deborah Solomon wrote for the New York Times in 2016, the two were an unlikely pair: Monet was famously apolitical, never voting in an election, while Clemenceau, a consummate politician, had similar artistic fascinations as Monet, with Japanese tea bowls and woodblock prints adorning his apartment.

Clemenceau encouraged Monet to continue painting during the twilight years of his life, even serving as a go-between for the mercurial artist and the eye doctor tasked with repairing his troublesome cataracts.

On November 12, 1918, the day after the armistice ending World War I was signed, Monet repaid Clemenceau’s kindness by bequeathing the nation a group of his “Water Lilies” paintings, which he hoped would serve as a “monument to peace.”

“It’s not much, but it is the only way I have of taking part in the Victory,” Monet wrote in a letter to the prime minister “… I admire you and embrace you with all my heart.”

It took nearly a decade for that promise to come to fruition, Alan Riding notes in a separate New York Times article, but in 1927, the year after Monet’s death at age 86, his panels were installed in specially constructed rooms at the Musée de l'Orangerie.

Although the new experience is the Paris museum’s first foray into virtual reality, Monet’s work is no stranger to the medium. In 2017, VR artist Stephanie Riggs led the launch of “Monet in Giverny: The Later Years,” a colorful glimpse of the artist’s life as seen through the lens of his early 1920s painting, “The Artist’s House from the Rose Garden.” Writing for Medium, Riggs explains, “Only once the landscape and the artist’s point of view are established do the streaks of color appear, accompanied by Monet’s own thoughts. Stroke after stroke, the painting comes into being.”

“The Water Lily Obsession,” produced by ARTE, Lucid Realities and Camera Lucida in conjunction with HTC Vive Arts, features a similar plunge into the process of creation. As ARTE notes on its website, the experience encapsulates Monet’s late-in-life embrace of abstraction and cacophonic color. It also mimics the worsening eyesight the artist experienced during the creation of his “Water Lilies” series, allowing participants to better understand the toll wrought by such loss.

Despite such bodily constraints, Monet managed to end his career with a burst of productivity most artists couldn’t hope to emulate over an entire lifetime—an accomplishment easily revealed by a stroll (virtual or physical) through the Musée de l'Orangerie.

====== 58 ========

FORGET CHERRY BLOSSOMS — WHY FALL MAY BE THE BEST TIME TO VISIT JAPAN

Thanks to the tiny star-shaped leaves that radiate from the momiji, the maple indigenous to eastern Asia, autumn in Japan is exhilarating. Walking through Kiyosumi Gardens in Tokyo on a recent visit, I glanced up at a constellation of red, orange, yellow and green leaves that interlocked to form a scrim. As the sun shone through, my world was bathed in kaleidoscopic color.

That evening, I went to Rikugi-en — like Kiyosumi, a classical Edo-period strolling garden. Stage lights illuminated the momiji, so that their bright bodies flexed against the night like lanterns. Fog machines generated mist, obscuring the ground. Both Rikugi-en and Kiyosumi are part of the Autumn Leaves Stamp Rally, an annual event during which ecstatic pilgrims visit all nine of Tokyo’s main gardens, receiving a stamp in a booklet for each one.

The Japanese, ever attuned to the seasons, love the cherry blossom. But kōyō, or fall color, is cherished with nearly the same ardor. Beginning in the 17th century, Japanese gardeners, in typically exacting manner, arranged more than 300 varieties of maple around temples, inns and residences in pleasure-giving color configurations. Momiji leaves are thin but taut, like sheets of crystallized honey, and can refract and filter light, like natural stained glass. Japan is full of unusually red trees, and in the sunlight the leaves glow like rubies.

In recent years, media attention and foreign enthusiasm, particularly from the Chinese, have raised the passion for Japanese leaf-chasing to a kind of fervor. From mid-October until early December, websites track the changing of the leaves from northeast to southwest. There are colorful trees all over the country, but most visitors cluster around the major cities, where hotels print daily foliage updates for guests. Such obsessiveness adds to the frenzied quality of the pursuit. But a chance to see the leaves at full wattage is a lesson in savoring the moment before the startlingly vivid colors fade.

Because Kyoto was not bombed during World War II, its trees and temples are generally older than Tokyo’s and are particularly prized. The Zen temple Enrian is open only five weeks a year for connoisseurs to see its famed 350-year-old tree, bred so its leaves turn blood-red. Visiting Rurikōin, I saw a crowd of fiery maples, whose predominant color, orange, was projected through a window onto a black lacquered floor.

Founded in 778, Kiyomizu Temple is perched atop a 43-foot cliff. It looks like the biblical ark suspended on an amber ocean of maple leaves. Young women dressed in cream, teal, and camel lingered over the view of the hills and vermilion pagodas sprouting from the scarlet forests. I gazed out at the horizon, to a landscape pulsing with color, and my heart throbbed with happiness.

Other articles from Travel + Leisure:

====== 59 ========

THERE’S A NEW RANKING SYSTEM FOR BEST COUNTRIES TO LIVE IN, AND NORWAY ISN’T NUMBER ONE

Every year, the United Nations releases the Human Development Index.

The HDI is like a country’s report card. In a single number, it tells policymakers and citizens how well a country is doing. This year, Norway was at the top of the class, while Niger finished last.

The index first appeared in 1990. Before then, a country’s level of development was measured solely by its economic growth. By taking non-economic dimensions of human well-being into account, the HDI revolutionized the idea of what was meant by countries becoming “more developed.”

The HDI has been wildly successful in changing the way people think about the development process. However, it still suffers from real flaws. There have been numerous attempts to do its job better, including one that we published on Nov. 6.

Eliminating the flaws in the HDI make a substantial difference. For example, Denmark was ranked fifth in the world according to this year’s UN rankings, but our new index knocks it down to only 27th, switching places with Spain.

Problems with the HDI

Human development can be devilishly hard to measure. The HDI considers changes in three domains: economics, education and health. (One alternative to the HDI, the Social Progress Index, combines data on 54 domains.)

In our view, the HDI has three main problems. First, it implicitly assumes trade-offs between its components. For example, the HDI measures health using life expectancy at birth and measures economic conditions using GDP per capita. So the same HDI score can be achieved with different combinations of the two.

As a result, the HDI implies a value of an additional year of life in terms of economic output. This value differs according to a country’s level of GDP per capita. Dig into the HDI and you will find whether it assumes an additional year of life is worth more in the U.S. or Canada, more in Germany or France, and more in Norway or Niger.

The HDI also struggles with the accuracy and meaningfulness of the underlying data. Average income could be high in a country, but what if most of it goes to a small elite? The HDI does not distinguish between countries with the same GDP per capita, but different levels of income inequality or between countries based on the quality of education. By focusing on averages, the HDI can obscure important differences in human development. Incorporating inaccurate or incomplete data in an index reduces its usefulness.

Finally, data on different domains may be highly correlated. For example, the GDP per capita and the average level of education in countries are strongly related. Including two highly correlated indicators may provide little additional information compared to just using one.

Our indicator

We propose a new index: the Human Life Indicator, or HLI.

The HLI looks at life expectancy at birth, but also takes the inequality in longevity into account. If two countries had the same life expectancy, the country with the higher rate of infant and child deaths would have a lower HLI.

This solves the problem of having contentious trade-offs among its components, because it has only a single component. It solves the problem of inaccurate data, because life expectancy is the most reliable component of the UN’s index. Because GDP per capita, the level of education and life expectancy are closely related to one another, little information is lost by using a human development indicator based only on life expectancy.

Our index draws a different picture than the one made by the HDI. Based on data from 2010 to 2015, Norway is not on top of the list in terms of human development. That honor goes to Hong Kong, while Norway drops to ninth place. Norway ranks highly on the HDI in part because of the revenues that it receives from North Sea oil and gas, but even with that revenue, Norway’s inequality-adjusted life expectancy is not the highest in the world.

What’s more, on our measure, Niger no longer is last. That dubious distinction goes to the Central African Republic.

The UN puts Canada and the U.S. as tied at 10th place, but Canada is ranked 17th in the world using our system, while the U.S. does poorly, ranking as 32nd. This relatively higher ranking of Canada reflects the higher longevity of its inhabitants and the lower inequality in their ages of death compared to people in the U.S.

In our view, the genius of the HDI is too important to give up, just because of problems with its implementation. In our new index, we have provided a simple approach that is free from the problems of the HDI. There is no need to have just one measure of human development, but it is useful to have at least one without contentious flaws.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Warren Sanderson, Professor of Economics, Stony Brook University (The State University of New York); Sergei Scherbov, Deputy Director of World Population Program, International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA); Simone Ghislandi, Associate Professor of Social and Political Sciences, Bocconi University

====== 60 ========

SWEDEN’S DISGUSTING FOOD MUSEUM IS NOT FOR THE FAINT OF STOMACH

Most museums seek to inspire and delight visitors, regaling them with collections of beautiful artworks and fascinating historical relics. A new museum in Sweden has a rather different goal: to hammer the senses with a display of some of the world’s most reviled foods.

The aptly titled Disgusting Food Museum, which opened recently in the coastal city of Malmo, features 80 dishes from around the world that for one reason or another have earned the epithet of being “disgusting.”

As Deutsche Welle reports, this curatorial menu of curiosities comes from the mind of Samuel West, a psychologist who previously created the Museum of Failure. With his latest project, West is not simply trying to make visitors lose their lunch, but instead hopes to explore the cultural subjectivity of food and challenge our concepts about why certain meals provoke, in the words of Merriam-Webster, such “strong feeling[s] of dislike or disinclination.”

After all, food-related disgust has been shown to be subjective. “[Y]ou still have to learn from your surroundings what you should find disgusting,” West tells Christina Anderson of the New York Times.

Visitors can smell and taste some of the foods, and lest you doubt that the museum means business, its tickets also double as barf bags.

Among the dishes on display are Icelandic fermented shark meat that nearly felled Gordon Ramsey; a type of Sardinian cheese, which is sourced from the milk-filled stomach of a slaughtered baby goat; cooked guinea pig, or cuy, which is considered a delicacy of the Andean diet; not to mention the infamously foul-smelling Durian fruit from Thailand. Such American staples as Twinkies and root beer also made the cut. As West tells Lilit Marcus and Rob Picheta of CNN, these items don’t always tickle the fancies of people outside of the States. “If you give root beer to a Swede they will spit it out and say it tastes like toothpaste,” he says.

Nor do local delicacies escape the museum’s scrutiny. Those who are not faint of stomach can take a whiff of surströmming, a fermented herring traditionally eaten at the end of August; the fish’s pungent smell is wafted into a photo booth, which captures visitors’ reaction to the scent.

When evaluating foods’ ick factor, museum staff considered not only taste, smell and texture, but also “background”—like whether or not animals were ill-treated during the making of the food. So pork, which many consider to be a tasty treat, is on display because of its connection to the factory farming industry.

“[W]hen you look … the way that pigs are held in factory farms, when you look at the antibiotics [that are used in factory farming]—that is absolutely disgusting and could potentially be life-threatening for humans," museum director Andreas Ahrens tells Deutsche Welle.

West was, in fact, inspired to create the museum because he is concerned about the ecological impact of meat-eating. Why, he asked himself, are many people willing to eat meat from animals like pigs, but recoil at more sustainable protein sources like insects?

“The obstacle is disgust,” West tells Anderson of the Times—and disgust, he hopes to show, is open to interpretation.

====== 61 ========

A NEW MUSEUM HONORING AMERICA’S VETERANS OPENS IN OHIO

Whether during halftime tributes or hot-button political debates, United States military veterans can often be seen more as symbols than actual people. At a time when a shrinking proportion of the country’s population is enlisting or even has a personal connection to members of the military, the concept of military service can seem like a distant one to many—something seen in the news or pop culture rather than among one’s peers.

A new museum in Columbus, Ohio, opening today, October 27, in advance of the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, is aiming to change that. The National Veterans Memorial & Museum (NVMM), a product of a local public/private partnership, sees itself as an institution devoted to highlighting the veterans’ voice. “We realized there is no national veterans’ museum,” says Amy Taylor, the chief operating officer of the non-profit Columbus Downtown Development Corporation. “We wanted to tell the story of all veterans and the similarities in their stories—across different times and branches, whether they served in conflict or during peacetime. We wanted to look at the journey that all veterans go through.”

Built on the Scioto River in downtown Columbus, the building’s stunning structure consists of a spiraling concrete pathway ascending to a green rooftop sanctuary, connected to a 2.5-acre grove. What sets the NVMM apart is its focus away from wars and historical events to the lives and stories of individual U.S. service members.

One of the museum’s exhibits highlights more than two dozen veterans who capture the experience of their era—sometimes in unexpected ways. For example, there’s Deborah Sampson, a Massachusetts woman who disguised herself as a man in order to serve in the Revolutionary War (even pulling musket balls from her own thighs to avoid having to see a doctor, who might discover her true sex). Or Master Sergeant Roy Benavidez, who received the Medal of Honor for saving the lives of at least eight men during the Vietnam War in a six-hour battle, in which he sustained seven gunshot wounds and shrapnel throughout his body.

“We have letters from the Revolution all the way on that had been written and sent back home, that really show the depth of their personality to their families and friends as they reflect on their experiences,” says Ralph Appelbaum, who oversaw the design of the museum’s layout. RAA has been behind exhibits at the Royal Air Force Museum and National World War I Museum, but for NVMM, Appelbaum says he and his team realized this more personal focus “could make for a very different kind of memorialization and response by honoring veterans’ living contributions.”

The museum isn’t a collecting institution—no long hallways of historic objects or an expansive displays of military artifacts—but it has these stories. Beyond the letters, the museum has hours and hours of videos of veterans sharing their memories and thoughts about their time in the military.

These films appear throughout the museum’s exhibitions, and the library of testimonials is expected to grow as veterans who visit the space record their own experiences and memories.

“We hope one day to become the clearinghouse of veteran voices,” says Samir Bitar, the museum’s director and an Army veteran himself. “You can imagine film producers or authors or podcasters in the future coming here for authentic from-the-veteran voices.”



“The stories are told in a compelling way or relatable way, but never in a sorrowful, woe-is-me way,” says Lieutenant General Michael Ferriter, who served 35 years in the Army and is now president and CEO of the NVMM. Whether touching foot lockers or listening to a veteran’s testimonial or seeing a stark picture of a funeral, visitors will “not just think but will feel,” he adds. “There will be tears shed in this museum.”

Why Columbus? In many respects, it’s because that community stepped up to meet the challenge. Since the mid-1950s, the state capital had been home to the Ohio Veterans Memorial, which was really just a convention center with a name that honored the state’s veterans. As the downtown was being redeveloped, members of the business community, led by L. Brands founder and CEO Leslie H. Wexner and his wife, Abigail, as well as city and state officials, notably Senator John Glenn, himself an Army veteran and famed astronaut, saw an opportunity to tear down the existing “memorial” and build one worthy of its name.

The NVMM puts a particular emphasis on what veterans like Glenn go on to do after their time in the military and how they continue to impact their communities and culture in other ways.

“We have a whole narrative to tell about the human who comes out of service and continues service in some other way or has a fascinating leadership role,” says Bitar, pointing to the range of veterans spotlighted in the museum, from artist Robert Rauschenberg to Edgar Allan Poe to the approximately 20 professional athletes who served in the Iraq war. “Veteran as fireman, veteran as civic leader, veteran as coach or school teacher — these stories haven’t really been told.”

Bitar added that the museum’s programming will also speak to veterans’ greater involvement in American society. He’s currently developing a lecture series and other programs that will feature veterans like Roman Baca, a choreographer and Fulbright Scholar who fought in the battle of Fallujah. Bitar expects that the offerings will surprise those who might expect a more traditional military museum experience.

“We want to hear people saying, ‘Wait, they have art there? They’re talking about science and public service and citizenship?’” says Bitar. “I don’t know if the world is going to expect that and we’re looking to change that conversation.”

“[This museum] was a chance to try and say something about the idea that many veterans express: that they want to do something meaningful back home,” says Applebaum. “That gave this project almost an optimistic view because of the journey those veterans took. Yes, it’s about honoring the veterans, but it’s also a way to connect civilians and veterans together and try to educate people about that experience.”

This is where the NVMM further distinguishes itself from other museums or memorials: its call to action. It aims to inspire visitors—veteran and non-veteran alike—to leave with a renewed desire to dedicate themselves to “something bigger than themselves” as Bitar puts it.

That call, however, only goes so far. As so many aspects of American life are viewed through the prism of politics, veterans have found themselves embroiled in controversy. From debates over funding for veterans’ services to whether kneeling football players are “disrespecting our troops,” veterans are often used as symbols — or weapons — in political battles. The museum doesn’t see itself as jumping into that fray.

Ferriter says he expects the museum would play “not a big role” in discussing political controversies of the day, but does expect that the museum’s programming will speak to veterans’ current concerns. He says of the veterans spotlighted in the museum that “those actions speak for themselves… Contemporary issues or discussions—we will likely address those at leadership symposiums. But we aren’t advocating anything other than what an awesome opportunity this is to honor our veterans.”

====== 62 ========

PEER THROUGH THE LENS OF THE WORLD’S BEST NATURE PHOTOGRAPHERS

Isaac Spotts bought his first “decent camera” six years ago at the age of 13. He had long been fascinated by the creatures in his home state of Wyoming. This year, Spotts was named the Youth Photographer of the Year in the Nature's Best Windland Smith Rice Awards. Spotts won for his breathtaking image of three sparring bull moose.

In order to capture the moment up close, he hopped into the spring, keeping a safe distance from the moose, and positioned himself and his lens at eye level. "It was quite chilly walking back to my car while soaking wet in 20°F weather, but it was worth it," he recalled in a postscript to his winning photograph.

“When I get out in nature and find animals and spend time with them, it reminds me just how beautiful this world really is and how lucky we are to share it with these incredible creatures,” Spotts says.

Along with Spotts’s submission, 26,000 photos from 59 countries were entered in the reknowned competion, now in its 22nd year and named in honor of photographer and conservation activist Sandra Windland "Wendy" Smith Rice, who died in 2005. Out of the thousands of entries captured by photographers of varying age and skill level, 60 of the finest, including the prize winners, will be on view at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History through September 2019.

Nelis Wolmarans is the grand prize winner and has for 20 years led safaris in the Maasai Mara, helping to facilitate wildfire relocations and ant-poaching efforts. Wolmarans says wildlife photography has provided him with “a deep appreciation for that which we cannot and should not control or predict.” His award-winning image captures a serene moment when a mother gorilla and her baby nestle together, eyes closed in sleep. "Wildlife photography and nature to me means living in the moment," he says of his image, "capturing or experiencing a scene or behavior that lasts only briefly and that will never repeat itself in the exact same way."

Some of the images in the exhibition are printed in life-size dimensions, making the portraits of zebras, gorillas, bison and other animals stunning and magnificent. Glorious panaramas of some of the Earth's most striking places deliver vistas of rivers, streams and trees, through the lens of some of the world's most creative outdoor photographers.

Other 2018 winners in their categories include: Arby Lipman from Fort Meyers Beach, Florida, for "African Wildlife;" Petr Bambousek of the Czech Republic for "Birds," Marco Gaiotti of Genoa, Italy, for "Conservation Story;" Chase Dekker from Monterey, California for "Landscapes;" Claudio Contreras Koob of Mexico City for "Ocean Views;" Mark Chen from Annandale, Virginia for "Outdoor Adventure;" Andy Rouse from Svalbard, Norway for "Polar Passion;" Tin Man Lee from Agoura Hills, California for "Wildlife;" and Howard and Michele Hall of Del Mar, California, for "Nature in Motion Video."

The "23rd Annual Windland Smith Rice International Awards Smithsonian Exhibition" is on view October 29, 2018 through September 2019, on the second floor of the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C. Entries to the 2019 competition may be submitted beginning November 1, 2018.

====== 63 ========

TASTE YOUR WAY THROUGH ITALY, ONE INGREDIENT-SPECIFIC MUSEUM AT A TIME

Just north of the Apennine Mountains in Italy sits the country’s Food Valley, the Emilia-Romagna region. The region stretches from the mountains north to the Po River, east to Ravenna, and west just past Parma, with Bologna as its capital. Inside its borders, locals celebrate a rich cultural food heritage. Emilia-Romagna boasts 44 PDO (Protected Designation of Origin) and PGI (Protected Geographical Indication) food products.

Thanks to Emilia-Romagna’s location, bounded by the sea, rivers, and mountains, the climate and land have lent themselves to cultivation, winemaking and food production for centuries—so much so that this part of Italy is considered to be the gastronomic heart of the country.

In celebration of the region’s rich heritage in food and wine, 25 museums, each dedicated to a different ingredient, form a self-guided road trip across the Food Valley. Granted, 25 museums are hard to cover in one trip. Consider paring your visit down to these seven main spots.

Museo del Parmigiano Reggiano; Soragna

Perhaps the quintessential Italian cheese, this museum celebrates Parmigiano Reggiano. It’s housed in an old tollbooth—that was actually a working dairy until 1977—at the Rocca Meli Lupi, a palace and castle built in 1385 by the Meli Lupi family on land deeded to them by Charles IV. The building has been restored to show the inner workings of an early 1900s cheese factory. Inside is a large circular room holding antique cheesemaking equipment, like a copper bell boiler from the 800s, a hand-drawn milk cart, and an antique churn. The basement is the old salting room from the 1960s, with an exhibit of old photographs and drawings of the salting process before immersion salting became the norm for cheese production. Every trip to the museum ends with a cheese tasting of samples matured for varying years.

Museo del Balsamico Tradizionale; Spilamberto

The Museum of Traditional Balsamic Vinegar pays homage to a local custom in Spilamberto and throughout Italy: making balsamic vinegar and, traditionally, aging it for 25 years. Families in the town often start aging a barrel of balsamic vinegar when a child is born in order to have the finished product as an inheritance. The museum itself resembles a large aging barrel in the first room, which covers the production process for three different types of balsamic—the standard wine balsamic, a 12-year refined vinegar, and the traditional 25-year version. After that room, the tour of the museum moves to a cooking room with large copper cauldron on display, and then heads through a shop to discuss barrel making. The end of the tour is in a museum with 118 aging barrels of balsamic and a bottle from 1785.

Museo del Prosciutto di Parma; Langhirano

Aptly located, the Parma Ham Museum occupies a building from 1928 right in the middle of the former cattle market. Nearby is an old slaughterhouse. Antique iron rings that were once used to corral cattle are still attached to the internal portico of the museum building. The museum has eight sections inside, plus a tasting room. Visitors learn about the history of prosciutto, how the meat is processed and prepared (both before it’s ready and when it’s about to be served), the butchers who prepare the meat, sausage making, and even the salt used to cure the meat. Tastings of local meats are available as well.

Museo del Sale; Cervia

No one really knows for sure when Cervia became a hub of salt production; it was already in full operation as early as Roman times. And the salt here is something special—it’s a bit sweeter than typical sea salt. The Cervia Salt Museum celebrates this heritage and the unique salt produced on-site. It’s housed in a salt storage tower from the ancient saltworks and also encompasses the last remaining saltpan left at the complex. Exhibits not to miss include a 3D model of how salt production worked at the site coming inland from the coast, a glass case showcasing intricate salt crystals, first-hand accounts from an actual salt worker, and multimedia stations exploring the physics and chemistry of salt itself.

Museo Casa Artusi; Forlimpopoli

Casa Artusi isn’t exactly dedicated to single ingredient; rather, it’s dedicated to an entire cooking style. The museum focuses on the art of Italian home cooking, something the museum’s namesake, Pellegrini Artusi, pioneered. He is considered the father of modern cookery, authoring “Science in the Kitchen and the Art of Eating Well” during his life in the 1800s. The book is now known to be a manual of Italian cooking. At Museo Casa Artusi, guests will find two libraries—both a civic one and Artusi’s own private collection—plus a restaurant, event space, wine tastings, and a cooking school.

Museo del Formaggio di Fossa; Sogliano al Rubicone

Similar to the Parmigiano Reggiano museum, the Museo del Formaggio di Fossa highlights a specific type of cheese—local Italian aged “ditch” cheese. This specific cheese is aged underground, in a ditch dug out just for that purpose. No one knows when exactly the tradition of burying cheese to age it began, but some think it may date back to the Middle Ages, when people would bury goods (including cheese) to hide them from invading enemies. The museum is on an old farm, inside a cheese ditch dating back to the 1200s to 1400s, and the family that lives on the farm today continues the traditional way of cheesemaking. Guests will explore the history of ditch cheese and can even bring their own cheese to age in the pit.

Enoteca Regionale Emilia Romagna; Dozza

For wine lovers, the Enoteca Regionale is more an experience than a museum. It’s located in a 13th-century castle and is dedicate to the regional wines of Emilia-Romagna. A typical tour of the museum runs like an Italian dinner, with four courses all paired with local wines. But guests can also explore an exhibition room with antique wine production objects and try a variety of tastings at different stalls throughout the facility on Sundays. All told, Enoteca Regionale holds about 800 different local labels. Visitors can take courses about local wines on-property from trained sommeliers.

====== 64 ========

A JOURNEY TO ONE OF THE COUNTRY’S MOST REMOTE DISTILLERIES

Driving to the headquarters of Far North Spirits, in Hallock, Minnesota (pop. 981), takes gumption and a functioning GPS system. The northernmost distillery in the lower 48 sits in the tip-top corner of the state, six hours northwest of the Twin Cities and an absent-minded turn from the Canadian border. Field & Stream publisher Charles Hallock was this ag town’s namesake. It’s home to narrow county highways, shimmering silos and open skies. The winters are bright and bruising. When it thaws, the town’s trusty siren whirs back into action; it rings at 6 p.m. each night, a signal to farm hands that dinner is warm.

Cheri Reese and Michael Swanson, Far North’s married co-founders, grew up together in Hallock. Her folks ran the flower shop; his family worked 1,200 acres of wheat and sugar beet fields, land the Swansons have owned for four generations. Both were thrilled, following high school, to leave their aging hometown in the rearview mirror. A decade later, in 2000, the pair reconnected on a holiday flight. Reese hadn’t planned on coming home from St. Paul that year, until her mom laid on some Lutheran guilt. Swanson, then living in Denver, looked slick in an ivory turtleneck sweater. Their first date was the very next afternoon, a Christmas Day showing of "Castaway." (Swanson’s dad loaned his eager son a car and instructed him “not to say anything stupid.”)

The couple eventually settled in Minneapolis, where their careers were comfortable but uninspiring. Reese would float the idea of moving back north from time to time, usually in moments of soul sickness. “We had really secure jobs,” she says. “But at the end of the week, there was nothing left. We didn’t have anything to show for it. We had a Powerpoint or something vapid. Mike was honestly just losing his mind.”

During those dreamy conversations, they reached a few conclusions: 1) Were they to flee city life for the northern plains, Reese and Swanson would develop a finished product from the grains that Swanson’s family had long cultivated. 2) They also loved whiskey. In 2013, after loads of background research, training and a few semesters of business school, Swanson felt comfortable swapping his Allen Edmonds for a pair of Red Wings. The two decamped back to Hallock, where Swanson’s parents had set aside one-quarter of their acreage for the new venture. The distillery opened for business that November.

The timing was opportune. A decade prior, there were only a handful of specialty distillers operating in the United States, maybe 50 or 60. Penetrating a market dominated by multinational conglomerates was nearly impossible. Then came the revival of cocktail culture and the subsequent liberalization of both state and federal liquor laws. Spirits drinkers were suddenly willing to pay a premium for flavor and character. According to the latest count from the American Craft Spirits Association, close to 1,600 craft distilleries are now up and running nationwide — making for a growth curve even steeper than the craft beer boom of the 1980s and 1990s.

I met the Far North team at the distillery on a hazy afternoon in August, one of the year’s steamiest. Crops stretched deep into the distance, buried into topsoil so black it looked dyed. There weren’t any neighbors in sight, no other obvious signs of civilization — other than Reese, sliding open the wood door of the main building to welcome me in. Swanson swung around in his truck a minute later. He’d been out harvesting the rye that Far North planted last fall, and he didn’t mind taking a (modest) break to show me around.

Their facility — which Reese jokingly calls “The Chocolate Factory” — was built from scratch, right on top of an old wheat field. Inside are two copper stills (50 and 500 gallons), a gurgling mash cooker, open-air fermentation tanks and dozens of wood barrels stacked neatly in the back. The building has no climate control; extreme temperature swings aid the aging process. Thanks to the mash, everything smells vaguely of hot cereal. It’s also eerily quiet, aside from the hum of equipment and the occasional purr from Eep, a formerly frost-bitten rescue cat who, like his adoptive family, was born and raised in Hallock.

The concept of terroir, more commonly associated with wine and, lately, coffee, is seeping into the vocabulary of craft distillers. It’s the idea that agricultural products are shaped by the climate and the culture in which they’re grown. Corporate distillers tend to use a few giant commodity suppliers; everything starts to taste standardized, even bland. Even among craft distillers, very few grow their own ingredients.

Swanson and Reese are a new breed; like chefs, they’re thinking hard about how to maximize the natural strengths of Hallock and the surrounding region. Swanson monitors the entire process starting when the seeds are planted, giving him tight control over quality and taste. He can pick the precise variant of crop, can tweak the spices in each individual batch, can fiddle with his dials if necessary during production. Their land, meanwhile, is nutritionally (and sentimentally) rich, the same fertile pastures that Swanson’s great-grandparents tilled a century ago, fresh off a boat from Sweden.

Rye — a hardy, drought-resistant grain particularly suited to the soil of both Minnesota and Scandinavia — serves as the foundation for Far North’s sharpest offerings, all of which have Nordic names, specific personalities and a distinct Minnesota heritage. Reese describes Solveig, their first gin, as light and floral, “like Cate Blanchett in a cashmere sweater.” Roknar, the outrageously smooth whiskey for which they’re best known, evokes “Steve McQueen in a convertible — the strong, silent type.”

Locals were excited when Reese and Swanson moved back, if skeptical of their ambitions. “Northwest Minnesotans are very quiet and passive-aggressive,” Swanson says. “They were like, ‘That sounds different.’” It took only a few months, and a few sips of Solveig, to win them over. On Saturday evenings, Hallockians now stream into Far North’s airy tasting room, bellying up to the polished bar for cocktails with birch paper straws. (Considering the beauty of the space and the caliber of the drinks, the prices — $6 for something mixed, $3 for a pour — are shockingly low.) Along one wall, there’s a stack of t-shirts with a simple question printed on the back: Who’s your whiskey farmer?

The couple filled their 100,000th bottle in August, a major milestone for what’s effectively a Mom-and-Pop shop. Distribution is growing steadily, in line with Far North’s burgeoning reputation. (Their wares are stocked at some 1,100 bars or liquor stores nationwide, in the Midwest and on both coasts.) In the past calendar year, they’ve hosted visitors from 23 states and six countries, far-flung locations that Reese marks dutifully on a pinboard map in the warehouse. Those who trek up are rewarded with a comprehensive tour of Far North's operation, charming conversation and drinks as sophisticated as any you’d find in a big-city bar.

The distillery has even inspired a modest cultural boom in Hallock itself, a city struggling to stanch depopulation. A craft brewery (Revelation Ale Works) opened 18 months after Far North, along with a funky coffee shop (Bean and Brush) and a tasteful Airbnb (The Scandinavia), options that compliment northern Minnesota’s abundant camping and hunting. Hallock’s Main Street Committee recently hired a Minneapolis-based creative agency, Bodega Ltd., to help reshape the town’s image, with the goal of attracting 100 new residents over the next decade. (Drawing inspiration from the vastness of the landscape and from Donald Judd’s work in Marfa, Texas, the firm landed on the tagline “Things are clearer up here.”) Lindsey Evenson, who runs Revelation with her husband, calls Far North “pioneers.”

Reese admits that building a life on the geographic margins sounds loony. It’s certainly full of logistical challenges: finding qualified employees, minimizing shipping costs, enduring long and lonely winters. In truth, the owners (along with assistant distiller Johny Barbosa) put in grueling hours, sometimes in adverse conditions, nearly all on their own.

And it’s a mistake, Reese argues, “to assume that because there are 6,000 breweries, there can be 6,000 distilleries.” Given the spirits explosion, winning shelf space is no easy feat, and corporate distillers have pursued acquisitions or taken minority positions in promising upstarts. “There are 30 Minnesota gins on the market right now,” Reese says. “There aren’t that many gin drinkers. In London, there aren’t that many gin drinkers! I think we’re going to reach a tipping point.”

Still, the folks at Far North are confident about the future. They trust their hands and their instincts. They’re deeply connected to that inky Minnesota soil. Swanson, the consummate farm kid, isn’t afraid to take apart his equipment and experiment. Down the line, they’d like to extend their barreling room, maybe add another still, size up the fermenters. They recently hired a Swedish production assistant; his accent is as thick as his beard. They want the world to see, up close, what sets Northwest Minnesota apart. Their project is by no means a marketing gimmick.

Not long ago, some Napa Valley winemakers swung through Hallock, careening down the gravel road that bends toward Far North’s grain bins, kicking up dust behind them. Swanson couldn’t believe they traveled all that way. (“Was it because Napa was on fire!?”) The winemakers had found Far North Spirits on shelves out west and were stunned to see that Swanson personally dug up the rye they’d later imbibe.

“Being in the middle of nowhere,” he says, “can work in your favor.”

The cocktail room at Far North Spirits is open every Saturday from 4-8 p.m, unless noted. The distillery also offers private tours by request; to visit, get in touch through their website (farnorthspirits.com).

Other articles from Travel + Leisure:

====== 65 ========

VENICE MUSEUMS RE-OPEN AFTER THE CITY’S WORST FLOOD IN A DECADE

On Monday, an unusually high tide submerged most of Venice in more than five feet of water, flooding the iconic Piazza San Marco, sloshing over raised walkways and forcing tourists and residents to wade through water as they navigated the city’s winding streets. Among the businesses and institutions affected were Venice’s museums, which were forced to temporarily shut their doors. They have since reopened, Sara Cascone of artnet News reports, but questions linger as to how the city will fare as sea levels continue to rise.

Venice is certainly no stranger to flooding. The “floating city,” as it has been dubbed for its many canals, sits on a lagoon and has been dealing with surging waters for centuries. Locally, the phenomenon is referred to as acqua alta, or high water, and it can be expected to happen about four times per year. But the inundation this week was particularly bad, driven by widespread storms that have left 11 people in Italy dead. In Venice, water levels reached their highest peak since 2008, reports the Associated Press.

Amidst the high-water alert, the Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia, which runs the city’s museums, shut down its 11 institutions, among them much-loved tourist haunts like the Saint Mark’s Clock Tower, the Doge’s Palace, Museo Correr and the Natural History Museum. Several pavilions of the Venice Architecture Biennale, an exhibition that will run until November 25, were forced to close, as was the Peggy Guggenheim Museum.

Fortunately, the museums have since reopened and they appear to be in good shape. Maria Cristina Gribaudi, the president of Fondazione Musei Civici Veneziani, tweeted recently that “no damage” was done to city museums, according to the Art Newspaper’s Gareth Harris. A Peggy Guggenheim spokesperson told the publication that “the high tide did not affect the interior of the museum,” and the Architecture Biennale said it counted 3,000 visitors when it reopened on Tuesday.

Whether the city and its cultural attractions will continue to be so lucky in the future is another question. Earlier this month, a study named Venice as one of 47 Unesco Heritage sites on the Mediterranean that face flooding and erosion risks over the next 100 years, due to rising sea levels triggered by climate change. According to the worst-case flooding scenario modeled by researchers, up to 98 percent of Venice and its saltwater lagoon could be subsumed by water.

The city does have a plan to save itself from destructive flooding: MOSE, a $6.7 billion infrastructure project consisting of a series of retractable gates that will sit at the entry of three inlets and rise up out of the water when tides get menacingly high, sealing off the Venice Lagoon from the Adriatic Sea. But the project, which began in 2003, has been beset by a corruption scandal, ballooning costs and structural issues. Marcello Rossi of City Lab reported in April that MOSE may be operational by 2020, but engineers have not been able to commit to a date.

If and when MOSE goes into effect, the barriers should last for 50 years. But it isn’t clear, as Rossi notes, if the gates will be able to handle increased strain brought about by rising sea levels. One study has predicted that the Mediterranean will rise by up to five feet before 2100, which would make the city flood as much as twice a day at high tide.

Editor's note, 11/2/18: The story's subhed has been updated.

====== 66 ========

ZOOMING IN ON PETRA

Once you’ve been to Petra, it stays with you. Long after you’ve left you will find grit from Petra’s red sandstone in the tread of your shoes; your fingernails will have a faint rosy tinge; a fine pinkish dust will cling to your clothing. For some time you will close your eyes and still be able to relive the startling moment you first saw this ancient stone city rising out of the desert floor; you will savor the memory of this place, its grandeur and strangeness, even after you manage to wash away the traces of its red rocks.

Driving southwest across the dull plateau from Amman for a few hours, you suddenly tip into the dry basin of Jordan’s Arabah Valley and tumble down through mountain passes. The landscape is cracked and sandy, seared and unpromising. It is hardly the setting in which you expect to find a city of any sort, let alone one this rich and extravagant and refined. There seems to be no water, no possibility of agriculture, no means of livelihood or sustenance. The fact that the Nabatean people, the nomadic Arabs who crisscrossed the region until they grew wealthy from trade, made Petra the capital of their empire by the fourth century B.C. is baffling. Yet here, at the valley’s center, are the remains of this once-lavish city, watered by hidden aqueducts that run for miles from an underground spring. It looks like no other place I’ve ever seen. The “buildings” are punched into the rock cliffs—in other words, they are elaborate caves, recessed in the sandstone and fronted with miraculously carved ornate facades. It is probably one of the world’s only cities that was made by subtraction rather than addition, a city you literally enter into, penetrate, rather than approach.

Petra will draw you in, but at the same time, it is always threatening to disappear. The sandstone is fragile. The wind through the mountains, the pounding of feet, the universe’s bent toward disintegration—all conspire to grind it away. My trip here was to see the place and take a measure of its evanescent beauty, and to watch Virtual Wonders, a company devoted to sharing and documenting the world’s natural and cultural wonders, use all manner of modern technology to create a virtual model of the site so precise that it will, in effect, freeze Petra in time.

* * *

I arrived in Petra just as the summer sun cranked up from roast to broil; the sky was a bowl of blue and the midday air was piping hot. The paths inside the Petra Archaeological Park were clogged. Horse-drawn buggies clattered by at a bone-joggling speed. Packs of visitors inched along, brandishing maps and sunscreen. In a spot of shade, guides dressed as Nabateans kneeled to conduct their midday prayers.

At its peak, 2,000 years ago, Petra was home to as many as 30,000 people, full of temples, theaters, gardens, tombs, villas, Roman baths, and the camel caravans and marketplace bustle befitting the center of an ancient crossroads between east and west. After the Roman Empire annexed the city in the early second century A.D., it continued to thrive until an earthquake rattled it hard in A.D. 363. Then trade routes shifted, and by the middle of the seventh century what remained of Petra was largely deserted. No one lived in it anymore except for a small tribe of Bedouins, who took up residence in some of the caves and, in more recent centuries, whiled away their spare time shooting bullets into the buildings in hopes of cracking open the vaults of gold rumored to be inside.

In its period of abandonment, the city could easily have been lost forever to all but the tribes who lived nearby. But in 1812, a Swiss explorer named Johann Ludwig Burckhardt, intrigued by stories he’d heard about a lost city, dressed as an Arab sheikh to beguile his Bedouin guide into leading him to it. His reports of Petra’s remarkable sites and its fanciful caves began drawing oglers and adventurers, and they have continued coming ever since.

Two hundred years later, I mounted a donkey named Shakira and rode the dusty paths of the city to ogle some of those sites myself. This happened to be the middle of the week in the middle of Ramadan. My guide, Ahmed, explained to me that he had gotten permission to take his blood pressure medication despite the Ramadan fast, and he gobbled a handful of pills as our donkeys scrambled up rock-hewn steps.

Ahmed is a broad man with green eyes, a grizzled beard, a smoker’s cough, and an air of bemused weariness. He told me that he was Bedouin, and his family had been in Petra “since time began.” He was born in one of Petra’s caves, where his family had been living for generations. They would still be living there, he said, except that in 1985, Petra was listed as a Unesco World Heritage site, a designation that discourages ongoing habitation. Nearly all the Bedouin families living in Petra were resettled—sometimes against their wishes—in housing built outside the boundaries of the new Petra Archaeological Park. I asked Ahmed if he preferred his family’s cave or his house in the new village. His house has electricity and running water and Wi-Fi. “I liked the cave,” he said. He fumbled for his phone, which was chirping. We rode on, the donkeys’ hard hooves tapping a rhythmic beat on the stone trail.

Petra sprawls and snakes through the mountains, with most of its significant features collected in a flat valley. Royal tombs line one side of the valley; religious sites line the other. A wide, paved, colonnaded street was once Petra’s main thoroughfare; nearby are the ruins of a grand public fountain or “nymphaeum,” and those of several temples, the largest of which was probably dedicated to the Nabatean sun god Dushara. Another, the once free-standing Great Temple—which probably served as a financial and civic center in addition to a religious one—includes a 600-seat auditorium and a complex system of subterranean aqueducts. On a small rise overlooking the Great Temple sits a Byzantine church with beautiful intact mosaic floors decorated with prancing, pastel animals including birds, lions, fish and bears.

The grander buildings—that is, the grander caves—are as high and spacious as ballrooms, and the hills are pocked with smaller caves as well, their ceilings blackened by the soot left from decades of Bedouin campfires. Some of the caves are truly imposing, like the Urn Tomb, with its classical facade carved into the cliff on top of a base of stone-built arches, and an eroding statue of a man (perhaps the king) wearing a toga. Others are easy to miss, such as the cave known as the Triclinium, which has no facade at all but possesses the only intricately carved interior at Petra, with stone benches and walls lined with fluted half-columns. Standing inside the valley it is easy to see why Petra thrived. The mountains contain it, looming like sentries in every direction, but the valley itself is wide and bright.

So much of Petra feels like a sly surprise that I became convinced the Nabateans must have had a sense of humor to have built the city the way they did. They were gifted people in many ways. They had a knack for business, and cornered the market in frankincense and myrrh. They had real estate savvy, establishing their city at the meeting point of several routes on which caravans shipped spices, ivory, precious metals, silk and other goods from China, India and the Persian Gulf to the ports of the Mediterranean. They had a talent for melding the dust and dirt around them into a hard, russet clay from which they made perfume bottles and tiles and bowls. They were expert artisans. And while it isn’t recorded in historical texts, they clearly appreciated the hallmarks of architectural showmanship—a good sense of timing, a flair for theatrical siting.

The most convincing evidence of this begins with the Siq, the main entrance to the city, a natural ravine that splits the towering rocks for almost a mile. It’s a compressed, confined space; its rock walls lean this way and that. Once you inch your way through it, you are spilled out onto a sandy apron and confronted with the most dramatic structure in Petra—Al Khazneh, or the Treasury, a cave more than a hundred feet high, its facade a fantastical mash-up of a Greco-Roman doorway, an Egyptian “broken” pediment and two levels of columns and statues etched into the sheer face of the mountain.

The Treasury wasn’t actually a treasury at all—it gets its name from the riches said to have been stored in the great urn atop the circular building at the facade’s center. The statues adorning the colonnaded niches suggest it may have been a temple, but most scholars think it was a tomb housing the remains of an important early king. (A favorite candidate is the first century B.C. Aretas III, who used the word Philhellenos on his coins—“friend of the Greeks”—which might explain the building’s Hellenistic flair.) Inside the cave there are just three bare chambers, today empty of whatever remains once rested there.

Perhaps the Nabateans placed this grand building here because the Siq served as a buffer to marauders, much like a wall or a moat. But I can’t help but think that they knew that forcing visitors to approach the Treasury via a long, slow walk through the Siq would make a perfect lead-up to a great reveal, designed to delight and astonish. The gradual approach also leaves the world with a timeless pun, because coming upon the Treasury this way makes you feel as if you’ve found a treasure at the end of a secret grotto.

Life in the Big City

Petra was a nexus of commerce and cultural exchange



When the Nabateans established their capital at Petra they ensured that it was well connected to booming trade routes: the Silk Road to the north, Mediterranean ports to the west, Egypt and southern Arabia to the south. With trading partners across the ancient world, the seat of Nabatean power was “the very definition of a cosmopolitan trade center,” writes the classicist Wojciech Machowski.

* * *

As Ahmed and I rode along, I could just make out in the distance the team from Virtual Wonders, who had spent the day flying a drone over the Great Temple, shooting high-resolution images of it from above. The company was formed in 2018 by three friends with complementary talents. Mark Bauman, a longtime journalist and former executive at Smithsonian Enterprises and National Geographic, knew the people in charge of historical locations like Petra and how to work with local authorities. Corey Jaskolski, a one-time high school dropout/computer whisperer (he eventually earned a graduate degree from MIT in electrical engineering), who has patented systems for impossible-seeming robotic cameras and 3-D scanning for use underwater, on land and from the air, would manage the technological challenges of image capture and digital modeling. Kenny Broad, an environmental anthropologist at the University of Miami, is a world-class cave diver and explorer for whom scrambling around a place like Petra was a piece of cake; he would serve as chief exploration officer. The three of them shared a passion for nature and archaeology and a concern with how to preserve important sites.

While outfits such as the Getty Research Institute and the nonprofit CyArk have been capturing 3-D images of historical sites for some time, Virtual Wonders proposed a new approach. They would create infinitesimally detailed 3-D models. For Petra, for instance, they would capture the equivalent of 250,000 ultra-high-resolution images, which will be computer-rendered into a virtual model of the city and its breathtaking structures that can be viewed—even walked through and interacted with—using a virtual-reality headset, gaming console or other high-tech “projected environments.” Virtual Wonders will share these renderings with authorities and other scholarly and educational partners (in this case, the Petra National Trust). Detailed modeling of this kind is at the leading edge of archaeological best practices, and according to Jordan’s Princess Dana Firas, the head of the Petra National Trust, the data will help identify and measure the site’s deterioration and assist in developing plans for preservation and managing visitors. “It’s a long-term investment,” Firas told me.

By the time I arrived in Petra, the Virtual Wonders team had scanned and imaged more than half of Petra and its significant buildings using an assortment of high-tech methods. A DJI Inspire drone—for which a military escort is required, because drones are illegal in Jordan—uses a high-resolution camera to collect aerial views, shot in overlapping “stripes” so every inch is recorded. Exact measurements are done by photogrammetry, with powerful lenses on 35-millimeter cameras, and Lidar, which stands for Light Detection and Ranging, a revolving laser mechanism that records minute calculations at the rate of a million measurements per second. When combined and rendered by computers those measurements form a detailed “texture map” of an object’s surface. All of this data will be poured into computers, which will need about eight months to render a virtual model.

None of this is cheap. In Petra, the Virtual Wonders team hiked around with about a half-million dollars’ worth of gear. According to Bauman, the company’s hope is that the cost of the projects will be recouped, and exceeded, by licensing the data to film companies, game developers and the like, with a portion of the revenue going back to whoever oversees the site, in this case the Petra National Trust. This isn’t an idle hope. Petra is so spectacular that it has been used as a location in films, most famously Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade; countless music videos; and as a setting in at least ten video games including Spy Hunter, OutRun 2 and Lego Indiana Jones. If its approach succeeded, Virtual Wonders hoped to move on to similar projects around the world, and since I left Jordan the company has begun work at Chichen Itza, the Mayan city in the Yucatán. It has also scored a clear success with an immersive virtual reality exhibit titled “Tomb of Christ: the Church of the Holy Sepulchre Experience,” at the National Geographic Museum in Washington, D.C.

I left my donkey and crossed through the ruins of the flat valley to join the team on a ridge overlooking the Great Temple. “We’re shooting stripes,” Jaskolski called out as the bug­like drone rose and jetted across the open sky toward the temple. Jaskolski’s wife, Ann, was monitoring the drone on an iPad. She reached out and adjusted the drone’s landing pad, a gray rubber mat, which was weighed down with a rock to keep the gusty breeze from toying with it. The drone made a burbling sizzle as it darted over the temple. Somewhere in the distance a donkey brayed. A generator coughed and then commenced its low grumbling. “We’re killing it!” Jaskolski called to Bauman, sounding a little like a teenager playing Fortnite. “I’m really crushing the overlap!”

Bauman and I hiked along the ridge to another building known as the Blue Chapel. A few crooked fingers of rebar stuck out of some of the rock—evidence that some clumsy restoration had been attempted. But otherwise, the structure was untouched, another remnant of the city that Petra once had been, a bustling capital, where lives were lived and lost; an empire etched in time, where the city’s carapace is all that remains.

* * *

On the far side of the valley from the Treasury, across the plain, Petra’s architects kept another great trick up their sleeve: Ad Deir, or the Monastery. This ancient temple is thought to have been dedicated to a deified Nabatean king named Obodas I, and possesses Petra’s largest carved facade. But the path there gives you no glimpse of it at all. For 40 minutes Ahmed and I clung on as our donkeys climbed up the steep path. I kept my eyes glued to the back of Ahmed’s head so I wouldn’t have to see the sheer drop-off along the edge of the trail.

As we made yet another turn with no building in sight, I began to wonder if I had misunderstood our destination. Even when Ahmed stopped and announced that we had arrived, there was nothing to see. The heat was getting to me and I was impatient. I grumbled that I didn’t see anything. “Over there,” Ahmed said, gesturing around a ragged rock wall. When I turned the corner, I was met with the full-frontal view of an enormous facade with an array of columns and doorway-shaped niches, almost 160 feet wide and nearly as tall, carved into a rocky outcropping. It was so startling and beautiful that I gasped out loud.

Like so many of the monuments here, the Monastery’s interior is deceptively simple: a single rectangular room with a niche carved into the back wall, which probably once held a stone Nabatean icon. The walls of the niche itself are carved with crosses, suggesting the temple became a church during the Byzantine era—hence the name. The Monastery is said to be the best example of traditional Nabatean architecture—simplified geometric forms, the urn atop a rounded building at the center. It is believed that the Monastery’s architect took inspiration from the Treasury but pointedly stripped away most of its Greco-Roman flourishes. There are no statues in the spaces cut between the columns, and overall it’s rougher, simpler. But out here, all alone, in front of a wide stone courtyard where Nabateans and travelers from across the ancient world came to worship or feast, the sight of the Monastery is profound.

I stared at Ad Deir for what felt like an eternity, marveling not only at the building but the way it had provided the exquisite pleasure of delayed gratification. When I returned to Ahmed, he was on the phone with his 2-year-old daughter, who was begging to get a new teddy bear on their upcoming trip to town. Ahmed has five other children. His oldest son, Khaleel, also works as a guide in the park. Khaleel had taken me earlier in the day to a ledge above the Treasury, a view even more vertiginous than the trail to Ad Deir. I needed several minutes before I could inch to the edge and appreciate the view. When I steadied my nerves and was able to peek out through squeezed eyes, I could grasp the monumentality of the Treasury—how it loomed, emerging out of the mountainside like an apparition, a building that wasn’t a building, a place that was there but not there.

What will it mean to create a perfect model of a place like Petra—one that you might be able to visit sitting in your living room? Will it seem less urgent to see Petra in person if you can stick on a pair of virtual reality goggles and make your way through the Siq, gawk at the Treasury, hike up to the Monastery, and inspect ruins that are thousands of years old? Or will having access to an almost-real version of Petra make it easier for more people to learn about it, and that, in turn, will make more people care about it, even if they never walk over its red rocks or slide their way through the Siq? The preservation aspect of projects like Virtual Wonders’ is undeniably valuable; it saves, for posterity, precise images of the world’s great sites, and will allow people who won’t ever have the opportunity to travel this far to see the place and experience it almost as it is.

But visiting a place—breathing in its ancient dust, confronting it in real time, meeting its residents, elbowing its tourists, sweating as you clamber up its hills, even seeing how time has punished it—will always be different, more magical, more challenging. Technology makes it easier to see the world almost as it is, but sometimes the harder parts are what make travel memorable. The long climb to Ad Deir, with its scary path and surprising reveal, is what I will remember, long after the specific details of the building’s appearance have faded from my memory. The way Petra is laid out means you work for every gorgeous vision, which is exactly what I imagine the Nabateans had in mind.

* * *

As soon as I left Petra, I found myself staring at the pictures I had taken and finding it hard to believe I had been there; the images, out of context, were so fantastical that they seemed surreal, a dream of a red stone city dug into the mountainside, so perfectly camouflaged that as soon as you drive the steep road out of the park, it seems to disappear, as if it were never there.

In Amman, where signs advertised this fall’s Dead Sea Fashion Week (“Bloggers and Influencers Welcome!”), my driver pulled up to the front door of my hotel and I stepped out, passing a sign directing Fashion Week attendees to the ballroom. The hotel had just opened for business—it was a glossy, glassy building that advertised itself as being in the heart of the new, modern Amman. But ancient Jordan was here as well. The entry was puzzlingly dark and small, with a narrow opening that led to a long hallway with walls that were akimbo, leaning in at some points and flaring out in others, with sharp angles jutting out. I inched along, dragging my suitcase and banging a corner here and there. Finally, the dark hall opened wide onto a big, bright lobby, so unexpected that I stopped cold, blinking until my eyes adjusted to the light. The young man at the reception desk nodded at me and asked if I liked the entrance. “It’s something special,” he said. “We call it the Siq.”

====== 67 ========

THE SCARS OF WORLD WAR I

Although 100 years ago may seem distant now, the war was so significant and severe that it should not be forgotten. How can I use this assignment to refresh our memories?

Before I set out to retrace the Western Front, I asked my parents and my wife about the direct connections that our families had to the war. Although my great-grandfather and my great-uncle fought in the war, they had been hesitant to share their stories, and only 20 years after the 1918 armistice my family was swept up in World War II, and most of the survivor stories weren’t passed down to the next generation.

====== 68 ========

IN 1868, TWO NATIONS MADE A TREATY, THE U.S. BROKE IT AND PLAINS INDIAN TRIBES ARE STILL SEEKING JUSTICE

The pages of American history are littered with broken treaties. Some of the earliest are still being contested today. The Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868 remains at the center of a land dispute that brings into question the very meaning of international agreements and who has the right to adjudicate them when they break down.

In 1868, the United States entered into the treaty with a collective of Native American bands historically known as the Sioux (Dakota, Lakota and Nakota) and Arapaho. The treaty established the Great Sioux Reservation, a large swath of lands west of the Missouri River. It also designated the Black Hills as “unceded Indian Territory” for the exclusive use of native peoples. But when gold was found in the Black Hills, the United States reneged on the agreement, redrawing the boundaries of the treaty, and confining the Sioux people—traditionally nomadic hunters—to a farming lifestyle on the reservation. It was a blatant abrogation that has been at the center of legal debate ever since.

In 1980, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the U.S. had illegally appropriated the Black Hills and awarded more than $100 million in reparations. The Sioux Nation refused the money (which is now worth over a billion dollars), stating that the land was never for sale.

“We’d like to see that land back,” says Chief John Spotted Tail, who works for the president of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe. He was speaking at the unveiling of the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868, parts of which are now on display at the National Museum of the American Indian. On loan from the National Archives, the treaty is one of a series that are being rotated into the exhibition “Nation to Nation: Treaties between the United States and American Indian Nations” on view through 2021. Most of the 16 pages of the Fort Laramie Treaty on display are signature pages. They feature the names of U.S. Government representatives and roughly 130 tribal leaders.

Delegates from the Sioux and Northern Arapaho Nations came to the museum to participate in the unveiling. During a small, private event in the exhibition hall on October 26, tribal delegates performed a Chanunpa or sacred pipe ceremony thanking and honoring the treaty’s signers and praying for the peace and welfare of their people and the United States. Among the delegates and roughly two dozen guests were direct descendants of the original signers, including Spotted Tail whose great-great-grandfather was a signatory.

“It is an honor to see what he did, and it is my wish that the United States government would honor this treaty,” Spotted Tail says. To him and the other delegates who spoke, the treaty represents a hard-won victory meant to ensure the survival of their people, but it hasn’t worked out as intended.

In the five generations since the treaty was signed and broken, the Sioux Nations have steadily lost reservation lands to white development. They now live in small reservations scattered throughout the region. “From the time we signed it, we were put into poverty and to this day our people are still in poverty,” Spotted Tail says. “We’re a third world country out there. The United States does not honor this treaty and continues to break it, but as Lakota people we honor it every day.”

Victory Over the United States

The Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868 was forged to put an end to a two-year campaign of raids and ambushes along the Bozeman trail, a shortcut that thousands of white migrants were using to reach the gold mines in Montana Territory. Opened in 1862, the trail cut through Sioux and Arapahoe hunting territory (as established by the first Fort Laramie Treaty in 1851). Red Cloud, a leader of the Oglala Lakota people viewed the wagon trains, and the forts that were built to protect them, as an invasive force. He and his allies, the Northern Cheyenne and Arapaho people, fought hard to shut down the trail. And they won.

“This treaty is significant because it really marks the high watermark for Sioux tribal power in the Great Plains,” says Mark Hirsch, a historian at the museum. “The Native Americans were wielding a kind of military power and presence in the plains that forced President Grant to realize a military solution to the conflict wasn’t working.”

The terms of the treaty not only closed the Bozeman trail and promised the demolition of the forts along it, but guaranteed exclusive tribal occupation of extensive reservation lands, including the Black Hills. White settlers were barred from tribal hunting rights on adjoining “unceded” territories. Remarkably, the treaty stated that the future ceding of lands was prohibited unless approval was met from 75 percent of the male adult tribal members. It was a resounding victory for the tribes.

Although some of the tribal leaders signed it in April 1868, Red Cloud refused to sign on promises alone. He waited until the forts had been burned to the ground. Seven months after the treaty was drawn, Red Cloud’s war finally ended when he placed his mark next to his name, on November 6, 1868.

Promises at Odds

Speaking at the ceremony, Devin Oldman, delegate from the Northern Arapaho Tribe says “This treaty is a promise of a way of life. It represents freedom, and that’s what I came to see.” For Oldman, freedom means sovereignty and the right to their traditional beliefs and structures of governance.

“The Sioux nation was sovereign before white men came,” says Hirsch, “and these treaties recognize and acknowledge that.” But in reading the 36-page document, it is clear the United States had an agenda that wasn’t fully consistent with the concept of self-determination for the Native American people.

Nine of the treaty’s 17 articles focus on integration of native peoples into the white man’s way of life. They commit the U.S. to building schools, blacksmith shops and mills. They include provisions of seeds and farm implements for tribal members who settle on the reservation including, “a good suit of substantial woolen clothing” for men over 14, and flannel shirts, fabric and woolen stockings for women.

“This treaty is chockfull of incentives to encourage the Indians to adopt what was considered a proper Jeffersonian American way of life,” says Hirsh. Given the disparity between cultural norms of white men and native people, and the use of many interpreters, it seems unlikely that expectations were uniformly understood by all parties.

The Sioux tribal members who agreed to settle on reservations resisted pressure to adopt farming and came to resent the lousy U.S. Government food rations. Many did not participate in assimilation programs and left the reservations to hunt buffalo on lands west of the Black Hills, as they had done for generations. The treaty allowed for that, but the specter of "wild" Indians living off-reservation deeply unsettled U.S. policy makers and army officers.

And then came the gold. In June 1874 General George Custer led an expedition to search for gold in the Black Hills. By 1875, some 800 miners and fortune-seekers had flooded into the Hills to pan for gold on land that had been reserved by the treaty exclusively for the Indians.

Lakota and Cheyenne warriors responded by attacking the prospectors, which led the U.S. to pass a decree confining all Lakotas, Cheyennes and Arapahos to the reservation under threat of military action. That decree not only violated the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868, but it flew in the face of tribal ideas of freedom and threatened to destroy the way of life for the Northern Plains Indians.

The conflict set the stage for the famous "Battle of the Little Bighorn" in 1876 where Custer made his last stand and the Sioux Nations were victorious—their last military victory. The following year, Congress passed an act that redrew the lines of the Fort Laramie Treaty, seizing the Black Hills, forcing the Indians onto permanent reservations and allowing the U.S. to build roads through reservation lands. In the years that followed, the Great Sioux Reservation continued to lose territory as white settlers encroached on their land and the expansion of the United States marched steadily on.

“This is a classic broken treaty,” says Hirsch. “It is such a naked example of a treaty abrogated by the United States in which the U.S. shows profound lack of honor and truthfulness.”

With no official means to seek redress, the Sioux had to petition the courts for the right to argue their case. They won that right in 1920 but the legal battle continued until the 1980 Supreme Court ruling which stated that the land had been acquired by false means and the Sioux were due just compensation. In refusing the payment, the Sioux maintain that the land is theirs by sovereign right, and they aren’t interested in selling it.

One Nation to Another

The financial award could help lift the Sioux Nation tribes from poverty and provide services to address the problems of domestic violence and substance abuse—problems that have followed the breakdown of their traditional societal structure at the hands of the United States. But money alone won’t give the people of the Sioux Nation what they are looking for. As important as the sacred land itself, it is the sovereign right they seek—acknowledgement that just five generations ago, representatives of the U.S. Government met representatives of the tribal nations on a level playing field in the Northern Plains, where one nation made a promise to another.

It would be easy to think of this 150-year-old document as an artifact of America’s uncomfortable past, says Darrell Drapeau, a member of the Yankton Sioux Tribal council who teaches American Indian studies at the Ihanktowan Community College. But it is important to remember, he says, that the U.S. Constitution—a document that governs daily life in America—was signed almost four generations earlier, 231 years ago.

“We have a viewpoint of this treaty as a living treaty being the supreme law of the land and protecting our rights in our own homelands,” says Mark Von Norman, attorney for the Cheyenne River an Great Plains Tribal Chairman Association. “We don’t always think that the courts are the right forum for us, because it’s really nation to nation, and it shouldn’t be a United States court telling our Sioux Nation tribes what the treaty means. It’s based on the principal of mutual consent.”

A 2012 UN report on the condition of indigenous people in America seems to support that stance in spirit. It noted that U.S. courts approach the inherent sovereignty of tribes as an implicitly diminished form of sovereignty, and that monetary compensation can reflect an outdated “assimilationist frame of thinking.” The report specifically cited initiatives to transfer management of national parklands in the Black Hills to the Oglalal Sioux Tribe as examples of a more equitable and modern approach to justice.

“One thing I know about Indians, they don’t give up, and I suspect that this issue will continue into the future,” says museum director Kevin Gover, who is a member of the Pawnee tribe. “And I really do believe that one day something at least resembling justice will be done with regard to the Sioux nation’s right to the Black Hills.”

The Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868 is on view in the exhibition “Nation to Nation: Treaties Between the United States and American Indian Nations,” at the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, D.C. through March 2019. The entire 36-page agreement can be seen online.

====== 69 ========

THIS ART SHOW IS TAKING THE LITERAL PULSE OF AMERICA

Grab the posts in the new interactive exhibit at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and in seconds, the lights will go dark. A large incandescent bulb before you will flash in the rhythm of your own heartbeat that you will also be able to hear.

Then the hundreds of bulbs in the entire room will pulse in the same pattern. Soon, the pulse you have registered will be relegated to a smaller bulb, the latest in a line of hundreds above whose rhythms were made before you. The combined beats making a pervasive, ominous din.

And when the next person grabs hold of the posts, her pulse will dominate for a few seconds, and your pulse will move down one.

“It’s this idea of amplifying this most intimate electricity in our bodies to the size of the architecture of the building,” says Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, the Mexican-born artist from Montreal about Pulse Room, one of three major installations filling the museum’s second floor galleries inches show Pulse.

The three works constitute the largest interactive technology exhibition at the Hirshhorn to date. Each requires the input of the visitor to activate it, says museum director Melissa Chiu, “because in some ways, without the visitor, the work wouldn’t exist.”

“Rafael Lozano-Hemmer: Pulse” begins with fingerprinting. In the 2010 Pulse Index, visitors place their index finger in a device that detects heart rates and displays the fingerprint on the wall in a huge projection.

In addition to the ridges and swirls, one might never know how sweaty one’s own finger may be without the super-magnification. “This artwork is a little bit gross in the sense that you’ll see some dust or some sweat or whatever because it’s such a close view,” Lozano-Hemmer says.

As in Pulse Room, the viewer’s heart rate is displayed as the projection shows the beat pulsing behind the fingerprint. As new visitors record their prints, past prints are methodically moved down, one by one, to smaller and smaller grids. Because the room is huge, at any one time there are 10,000 fingerprints displayed.

“The project is kind of like taking a portrait and turning it into a landscape of images,” the artist says.

Lozano-Hemmer is aware of the hesitancy some may have to supply a fingerprint during an era of widespread surveillance in a building four blocks from FBI Headquarters. “We live in an era where a fingerprint lets you into your country, or it lets you into your phone,” he says. “But how can we pervert that? How can we misuse these technologies of control to create connective, poetic or critical experiences? That’s what this show is about.”

The fingerprints or pulses in the works aren’t recorded or kept, he says. “There is absolutely no tracking of an individual. No one is asking you for your name.” And as a new giant fingerprint pushes all previous fingerprints down one space, a teeny one on the end is pushed off and erased.

“In other words, this is not a repository or an archive of these fingerprints but it’s rather just a flow. We call it a memento mori, because it’s just a reminder that we’re here for just a little bit of time,” the artist says.

It’s the largest iteration of Pulse Index, first shown at the Sidney Museum of Contemporary Art in Australia in 2010. And if it reflects a city-size of individuals, the second work, the tranquil Pulse Tank shows possible interactions between people.

First premiered at the Prospect 1 New Orleans Biennial in 2008 and representing Mexico in the Venice Biennial the following year, it again takes a pulse from visitors, which is transmitted to a bar pulsing the same rhythms on a shallow pool of water. Its ripples eventually cross the tank and are reflected onto the blank walls like a video. But when someone stands on the other end of any of the three tanks in the room, and records a pulse, the two eventually intermingle in center of the pool to create complex intersecting patterns.

“It is in connection to other heartbeats that the piece becomes more interesting,” Lozano-Hemmer says. Likewise, the intersecting sounds of the pulses he likens to modern music “that repeats, but that’s slightly offset and creates its own symphonies—this kind of rhythmic or arrhythmic or syncopating beats.”

Also the largest version of Pulse Tank, its tanks had to be curved and calibrated specially so that the screens on the curved museum walls could appear straight. “And you think, ‘Oh, that’s easy.’ No! It was horrible,” he says. “It really is hard.”

“Someone has already asked me about the potential diagnostic value of this work,” Chiu says.

It’s negligible, though Lozano-Hemmer adds that an assistant’s father was alerted to arrhythmia after testing out Pulse Room.

A fourth work by Lozano-Hemmer in Washington currently can be found a mile and a half north, at the Mexican Cultural Institute, which is showing the 2011 Voice Array, on loan from the Hirshhorn. It records the voices of visitors and isolates them before including them into a cacophony of a lighted grid, much as they are in Pulse Room.

The latter was inspired by a 1960 Mexican film by Roberto Gavaldón in which the hero sees people as lit candles in a cave. “I am an artist who has worked with light for a very long time,” Lozano-Hemmer says. But unlike artists like James Turrell, who work inspired by an inner light, “I come from a different tradition of light—my parents were nightclub owners in Mexico City.”

In their salsa and disco clubs, the future artist became inspired by what he calls “light of disorientation, the light of the nightclub, the light that flashes and it breaks up with the disco ball, that allows you to be somebody other than yourself.

“The other light that I’m interested in is the violent light, the light of interrogation. The light of police or say, Border Patrol, looking for Mexicans at the border. It’s the light that blinds,” he says. “So between the seduction of participation and clubbing and the violence and predatorial vision of this Orwellian, lockdown, blinding light, my work exists.”

And despite their reliance on technology and biometrics, his work represents more than large science projects, says Hirshhorn chief curator Stéphane Aquin. “They’re not just new media works; they’re visually compelling. Whether you interact or not, the spectacle is absolutely breathtaking.”

“Rafael Lozano-Hemmer: Pulse” continues through April 28, 2019 at the Smithsonian’s Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C. “Voice Array” is on display through Jan.31 at the Mexican Cultural Institute, 2829 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20009.

====== 70 ========

IN SENEGAL, FEMALE EMPOWERMENT, PRESTIGE AND WEALTH IS MEASURED IN GLITTERING GOLD

In Dakar, Senegal, a woman goes into a dark, small room called an m’bar, a goldsmith studio. The walls are covered with black dust, and she is there to commission an intricate piece of gold jewelry that will be part of her family’s wealth, as well as a symbol of her status, political power and prestige. She’s accompanied by a griot, who will sing songs praising the client’s family connections and her beauty to inspire the teugue, the goldsmith, to create an especially exquisite piece of jewelry.

“Very often there was just one little bulb hanging in that room, and you would wonder how in the world they could do the very fine, delicate work that they did,” explains art historian Marian Ashby Johnson. “There was a small hole in what was sometimes a mostly dirt floor. That was where they had their furnace, where they melted the gold and made it into beautiful things.”

Those things included complicated gold necklaces of flowers or butterflies, with almost impossibly tiny filigreed wires twisted into soaring tubular shapes, or twined into bracelets that seem almost too heavy to wear. There are rings with stylized domes that look as if they belong in a castle, and chokers that look like undulating fish scales supporting a main ornament that looks like it could be a tiny replica of a golden city.

“The presentation of these goldsmiths is incredible, but what they have to go through to get the filigree, like tiny little lines of wires of gold, took a long time,” says Johnson, who went through their catalogues and saw the drawings they had done to make designs to please women who wanted to give their own take on existing designs. “They had to pull it through a plaque that was full of different sized holes. They would start out with a piece of gold and they would have to pull it through until they got to the finest that they could do for the filigree. It was an enormous process.”

Johnson spent decades doing research in Senegal, interviewing goldsmiths and their clients about the precious metal that is so much a part of the West African nation’s history and culture. Johnson donated 250 works of jewelry along with her archival notes and photographs for the new exhibition “Good as Gold: Fashioning Senegalese Women,” now on view at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African Art. The show chronicles the varied styles of the gold jewelry and its history. But it is also about the women who designed and wore these spectacular pieces, and the messages behind them.

“This is primarily a story about women. It was of course a story about fashion, and I looked at fashion a lot around the city as an urban center and as a way of . . . offering a sort of platform for women to use jewelry and sartorial expression to get by,” explains the exhibition’s guest curator Amanda Maples, who notes that the collection spans the 20th century and into the 21st century.

“The jewelry is still a way of fashioning self-identity and city and cultural identity, politics, all of that comes together in the jewelry. . . . But I wanted to go into those deeper hidden meanings of women . . . and how they use it to sort of create this under the surface sense of connectivity in a local but as well as in a global way,” she says.

Senegalese women, Maples notes, have historically used jewelry to create a cosmopolitan identity of power and prestige. A key component of “Good as Gold” is sañse, pronounced “sahn-say.” It’s a word from the Wolof tribe derived from the French changer, to change or transform. It means “dressing up,” but it also illustrates the concept of the presentation of a fabulous public persona. Maples explains that the women use gold jewelry to create an elegant, sophisticated public self. That includes everything from elaborate coiffures and scarves, showing off a woman’s finest ceremonial garb, all the way down to beautifully designed sandals and the tinkling of gold bracelets. Through these outfits, Senegalese women are using fashion for sociopolitical and economic ends as well as celebrating their own history.

“There were definitely designs and styles that were created for specific events or architecture. Women were valued in the community and (the jewelry) would actually be named after these women,” Maples says, “but there is also this sense of individuality that had to be pulled out. So there’s this commonality in terms of a recognizable style that you would see not just in Dakar, but often throughout the country. . . . So, you get this empowerment in the piece as well as the community and the woman herself.”

There’s a pair of earrings in the collection called Pauline Diack, named after a beautiful, famous midwife from Saint-Louis. The earrings were designed and named, in consultation with Diack, by a close female friend and were made by goldsmith Magueye Niang in 1944. The curators note the Senegalese women were known for their political activism, and jewelry was often used to commemorate political events, people or causes. There’s a bracelet in the collection called Loi de Lamine Guéye, named after the politician Lamine Guéye, who helped Senegalese women earn the right to vote in French colonies. Women attended his speeches simply dripping in finery and gold jewelry.

“Good as Gold” celebrates the essential role Senegalese women have played in trade and politics since the Portuguese created ocean trade networks in the 15th century. But part of their story is disturbing. Called signares, from the Portuguese word senhoras, these incredibly powerful women made waves culturally and economically as well as being known for their beauty and business savvy. Maples says there’s not really an English translation for the word.

“It’s sort of a hybrid French and Portuguese word. It’s not Senegalese. But the women themselves were sort of Afro-European and they were temporarily marrying essentially European men. This was advantageous for the men as well as the women. They already spoke several languages, quickly adapted to the European languages and were able to access the trade networks particularly the one to the gold and to the interior,” Maples explains. “But the women then inherited the property and any income from that when the men left. . . . So the women as well as their children then inherited all that wealth from the gold trade, and from the trade of slaves.”

The 18th and 19th century signares gained their wealth primarily through ownership of property by the so called “marriages of the land” with Europeans, and through their ownership of slaves and gold. It made Maples uncomfortable to talk about this part of their history, even though headhunting and slavery were common in West Africa even before the Trans-Atlantic slave trade begin. But she says the signares sent their slaves out to the gold mines, the metal would be fashioned into jewelry and then that was part of their property and trade, which made it possible for the women to empower themselves.

“It’s this history of the oppressive side of human exploitation plus empowerment at the same time. It’s a very complex narrative,” says Maples. “Gold is actually one of the only things that is exclusively owned by women for the most part. . . . Gold is one of the most real ways a woman can inherit and have wealth and so they do pass it along. . . . You see these really savvy powerful businesswomen and in some senses they were using the men to make their own case, and they were able to succeed because of that.”

A centerpiece of the exhibition is an outfit commissioned from Oumou Sy, Senegal’s “Queen of Couture,” inspired by the strength and power of the signares.

The model wears an elaborately woven red and gold headdress, meticulously worked fabric and stunningly intricate gold jewelry including earrings, bracelets and pendants. Many signares preferred red, and the outfits kept them completely covered so that they could maintain their light skin. Sy’s design included even the undergarments worn by the signares, who wore belts and other special clothing to seduce their men, including hidden bracelets and toe rings. Through a translator, Sy explains in French how she feels about having her vision of what she calls “the queens of gold” on display here.

“I am very honored to have the model here and to expose it. It is something that really is integrated into the life and if you’re in Senegal you’ll see images of the signares and this old traditional way. It’s part of our culture,” Sy explains, “It’s a beautiful part of our culture that people cherish even though it has a little bit of a raunchy origin.”

The museum’s director, Gus Casley-Hayford, says “Good as Gold” made him think about his family, and his grandfather who was gold trader in Sierra Leone. He used to bring home small bags of gold dust and gold nuggets to his wife, who would go and find a jeweler to make them into glorious pieces.

“It’s a pervasive thing you feel in West Africa . . . the importance of the family narrative and it’s something that is celebrated through gold in such a glorious way,” Casley-Hayford says. “It could be well worn. And yet, the fact that it was well-worn actually seemed to add to its value. . . It could be passed down over generations and feel both old and renewed through the process. For me, gold is like a wonderful story that is only enhanced through the retelling.”

“Good as Gold: Fashioning Senegalese Women,” curated by Amanda Maples and Kevin D. Dumouchelle, is on view at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African Art in Washington, D.C. through September 29, 2019.

====== 71 ========

TAKE A TRIP THROUGH EDGAR ALLAN POE’S AMERICA

Edgar Allan Poe was born in Boston, and published some of his most famous works while living in the city. But Poe never felt at home in Boston—and the city, famous for authors like Emerson and Thoreau, never welcomed Poe as one of their own, either.

The feud was partly sparked by comments Poe made about the city. He noted that its residents "[had] no soul," asserting that "Bostonians are well bred — as very dull persons very generally are." His opinion of its authors—the famous Transcendentalists of the era—was hardly kinder; he called their work flowery and overly moralistic. "Poe died happy to not like Boston. I don't think it was something that he was losing sleep over, that he and the city of Boston didn't get along," Devers says.

In recent years, however, Poe's relationship with his birthplace has started to soften, thanks in part to Boston's willingness to reclaim Poe as one of its own. In early October of 2014, the city erected a statue—depicting the author with a raven—near the Boston Common, two blocks from the house where Poe was born on January 19, 1809. "The Poe statue that went up was a huge part of claiming his legacy in Boston. It's a bold statue right in the middle of a tourist spot, which not a lot of Poe statues are around the world, " Ocker says.

Though Poe's birth house no longer exists (the entire street was torn down and replaced with a parking lot in the late 1950s), the area is marked by a plaque—on the side of a building at the intersection of Boylston and Charles Street—which was unveiled by the city in 1989. In 2009, to mark the centennial of Poe's birth, the city of Boston dubbed the intersection "Edgar Allan Poe Square."

====== 72 ========

WHERE TO SEE THE WORLD’S BIGGEST SPIDERS

Currently, more than 46,000 spider species stretch their eight legs in habitats across the world, in every country and continent except Antarctica. And those are only the ones scientists have been able to find and name so far—many more are likely still out there, lurking under leaves and rocks and, for Halloween’s sake, perhaps under a bed or two.

Although some people find these creatures terrifying—a spooky symbol of haunted houses and Halloween frights—we owe a lot to our arachnid friends. Not only have they been around for about 350 million years (trumping our puny 200,000-year modern human existence), spiders make it possible for us to eat and live a more comfortable life.

“If spiders disappeared, we would face famine,” Norman Platnick, a spider expert at New York’s American Museum of Natural History, told the Washington Post in 2014. “Spiders are primary controllers of insects. Without spiders, all of our crops would be consumed by those pests.”

For that matter, so would we. Because spiders munch on insects, they save us from bites.

“Without spiders’ existence and abundance on the planet, life on earth would probably be a less hospitable place for people because the biting flies and mosquitoes of the world would be so populous,” Cat Urban, manager of the invertebrate live animal programs at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, which hosted a Spider Pavilion for visitors in 2018, told Smithsonian.com.

This year, museum-goers can face their fears further north at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto. Through January 6, 2019, over 400 live and preserved arachnids will be on display in the museum's Spiders: Fear & Fascination exhibition. Hands-on activities, live venom milking demonstrations, augmented reality experiences and a recreated spider cave bring visitors face-to-face with these fascinating and misunderstood creatures. The exhibit features two of the world's largest spiders, the goliath birdeater and the Brazilian wandering spider.

If you want to see these and other eight-legged giants in the wild, here are a few places to see the world's biggest:

====== 73 ========

THE STATUE OF LIBERTY’S ORIGINAL TORCH GETS A NEW HOME

In 1985, after enduring nearly a century of wear, tear and poorly executed renovations, the Statue of Liberty’s torch was swapped out for a new version. The original was put on display inside the statue’s pedestal, where it could be seen by ticketed guests. Now, following an ambitious relocation plan, Lady Liberty’s flame has been moved once again.

As Sarah Cascone reports for artnet News, the fiery accessory now sits in the as-yet-unfinished Statue of Liberty Museum, which is scheduled to open in May 2019. The museum will be accessible to all visitors to the island, meaning that a wider audience will have an opportunity to appreciate the torch’s majesty.

Getting the torch to its new home was no small feat. This single portion of the statue is 16 feet tall, 12 feet wide and weighs 3,600 pounds, according to Helene Stapinski of the New York Times. Working after visitors left Liberty Island and into the night, a team dismantled the statue into two pieces. The flame and its tube were lifted outside by a crane, while the base was flipped on its side and pulled through the doors on neoprene skates. The fragments were driven to the museum on a hydraulically stabilized transporter vehicle, to make sure they stayed safe during the bumpy drive across the island. Finally, a crane lowered the pieces into the new museum, through gaps that will become windows once the building is complete.

“The issue here is it’s a precious treasure for our country,” Doug Phelps, president of the Phelps Construction Group, which is building the museum, tells Stapinski. “This is not the most difficult thing we’ve ever moved. But certainly it’s the most important.”

The relocation marks a new chapter in the history of one of Lady Liberty’s most iconic features. In 1885, the torch was shipped from France to the United States, one piece of a towering gift that was meant to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. Under the direction of Frédéric-Auguste Bartholdi, the French sculptor who designed the statue, the torch had been given a copper flame that was intended to be illuminated by external lights installed underneath it.

But in the fall of 1886, just before the statue was dedicated in front of thousands of spectators, the U.S. Lighthouse Board decided to install nine arc lights inside the flame, instead, cutting portholes into the copper so the light could shine directly out of the flame. The final effect, however, was underwhelming, according to Cara Sutherland’s history of the Statue of Liberty for the Museum of the City of New York.

More ill-advised cosmetic adjustments were made in 1916, following the Black Tom explosion, a German attack on an island in the New York Harbor, where WWI munitions were being stored. Previously, select visitors had been granted permission to climb into the torch, but in the wake of the attack, the military closed the torch down, which had been badly weakened after being pummeled by debris from the incident.

In the aftermath of the incident, Mount Rushmore sculptor Gutzon Borglum stepped in to give the torch a “major design overhaul,” according to Southerland. Borglum’s revamp removed much of the flame’s copper and replaced it with amber-colored glass. But the glass panes leaked each time it rained, causing damage to the statue’s arm.

After the torch was replaced in the 1980s, the original was sent on a country-wide tour, and then put on display inside the statue’s pedestal. Now, having spent more than three decades at Lady Liberty’s feet, it will form the centerpiece of the new 26,000-square-foot museum. The original may not be as sparkly as its successor, which is lined with 24-karat gold leaf gilding, but it continues to shine after decades spent in the outstretched arm of one of the nation’s most important artworks.

====== 74 ========

PARADISE’S GOLD NUGGET MUSEUM FALLS VICTIM TO CAMP FIRE

Since the deadly Camp Fire broke out in northern California’s Butte County, the destructive wildfire has decimated some 150,000 acres of land, killing at least 77 and leaving approximately 1,000 on the missing person list. As the inferno continues to chart its path of destruction (according to the state’s forestry and fire production agency, it likely won’t be fully contained until November 30), residents of the razed town of Paradise are beginning to face the unprecedented scale of their loss. Nearly 10,000 homes are gone. Businesses ranging from McDonald’s to Safeway, a gas station and a newly remodeled Jack in the Box have been reduced to ashes. And, as the Associated Press’ Martha Mendoza reports, the Gold Nugget Museum—a beloved local institution founded in 1973 to provide a year-round glimpse into the town’s prospecting past—was included in the count of institutions felled by the flames.

The museum served as a powerful symbol of small-town pride. As Evan Nicole Brown reports for Atlas Obscura, the Golden Nugget was locally funded and volunteer-run. It delivered insights into life in 19th-century California through a replica blacksmith shop, miner’s cabin and schoolhouse. The museum also held a collection of artifacts related to the region’s indigenous Maidu community. Its official mission was “to preserve and protect the Ridge heritage through the collection and display of local artifacts, and with community education programs.”

Special events and programs held at the site brought members of the 27,000-strong Paradise community together in celebration of the area’s past; according to the museum’s website, a “Pioneer School Program” found students cooking in a cauldron over an open fire, creating corn husk dolls, weaving cloth on a homemade loom and learning how to pan gold.

Just a few months ago, Paradise’s 25th-annual Days of Living History initiative transported the museum grounds back in time to the so-called “good old days” between the 1850s and 1950s. As Amanda Hovik of the local Paradise Post reports, historical reenactors clad in period costume taught families old-fashioned activities such as candle dipping and rope making. Melvin “Sam” Dresser and his wife Joan, two founders of the museum, demonstrated how to use apple polishers, peelers and crushers.

Paradise traces its Gold Rush roots to the 1859 discovery of a 54-pound nugget in the town of Magalia, which was then known as Dogtown. As Mendoza notes for the AP, the town commemorates the find with an annual series of “Gold Nugget Days” featuring a parade filled with homemade floats, a “Miss Gold Nugget Pageant” and even a “Donkey Derby” that finds locals reenacting the arduous task of transporting the eponymous hunk of gold. The museum, which was officially founded during the 1973 iteration of Paradise’s Gold Nugget Days, also hosts special events marking the occasion.

Michelle Rader, a museum board member, told the Los Angeles Times’ Maria Laganga that she attended a local vigil in order to pay her respects to friends and colleagues who have lost their homes, as well as her own lost workplace.

One of the museum’s docents, John Sedwick, died in the fire. He was “an amazing storyteller and historian,” Radar told Laganga, and had grown up in the neighborhood of Old Magalia.

Although the Gold Nugget Museum—like the majority of the town—has been ravaged by the fire, there’s hope that the annual celebrations that gave the museum its name will live on. “My daughter’s going out for the Gold Nugget Queen this year,” Krystin Harvey said in an interview with the AP.

Mayor Jody Jones tells Paradise Post’s Julia Sulek that there’s much to salvage in Paradise. Ponderosa Elementary School burned down—but Paradise High survived. The museum is gone, but the library remains. The town hall and police department are still standing, and parts of the local hospital can be saved.

“So many have said, well, there’s nothing left of Paradise,” she says, “[but] there’s really a core to build on.”

====== 75 ========

THIS VETERANS DAY, VISIT AMERICA’S TOP MILITARY SITES

Just in time for Veterans Day, a recently published book by historian Douglas Keeney hopes to encourage readers to visit the many museums and historic locations that tell the long and complicated story of America at war. The Top 100 Military Sites in America, as the book is titled, lists destinations in more than 40 states, from cemeteries, to secret bunkers, to desolate nuclear test sites.



These locations cover the breadth of United States history, starting with the Museum of the American Revolution in Philadelphia and extending to exhibitions on the war on terror at institutions like the National Museum of the U.S. Navy in Washington, D.C. Some of Keeney’s selections are well-known, among them the Arlington National Cemetery and the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, but much of the book is focused on more obscure locations that reveal hidden wartime histories.

The Top 100 Military Sites in America Did you know that the Coast Guard mounted a rescue effort on 9.11 and evacuated more than 100,000 New Yorkers from Manhattan by boat? Go to the little-known Naval Air Station Wildwood Museum in Cape May, New Jersey to discover that story. How about the remnants of the helicopter from Blackhawk Down or the lifeboat from Captain Phillips – or even the Airbus pulled from the Hudson River that was piloted by Sully Sullenberger? We’ll tell you where to go to find all of these objects -- and many, many more. Buy

Keeney recommends, for instance, the First Division Museum at Cantigny Park, Illinois, which is devoted to the “Big Red One”—the first unit of the American Army to deploy during WWI. Another intriguing location is the Historic Wendover Airfield in Utah, a WWII air base that is still surrounded by original buildings from the period. It was here that the crew of the Enola Gay, the B-29 bomber that dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, was trained to carry the deadly weapon. In the beach town of Nahant, Massachusetts, you can spot two fire control towers that were built by the military during WWII to keep watch for encroaching German invaders.

Also on Keeney’s list are many destinations connected to the Cold War, like the Nike Missile Site Summit in Alaska, which was once part of an anti-aircraft defense system established to shoot down Soviet bombers. There are Nike sites sprinkled throughout the country—the book also lists locations in New Jersey, Florida and California—but the ones in Alaska are particularly important because the state was the first stop for Russian bombers on their way to the Lower 48. At Site Summit, which sits on a mountaintop in the Arctic Valley, visitors can still see missile boosters and above-ground bunkers.

Per Keeney’s suggestion, you can tour the declassified Greenbrier Bunker in West Virginia, once a top-secret fallout shelter for U.S. officials, who would “govern a radiation-soaked, post-WWIII nation,” Keeney writes in the book. “Lucky them.” He also recommends the U.S. Army Field Artillery Museum in Fort Sill, Oklahoma, where you can spot “Atomic Annie,” the first and only cannon to ever fire a nuclear shell.

For more recent history, Keeney suggests stopping by the Naval Air Station Wildwood Museum in Cape May, New Jersey, which includes a special exhibition on the Coast Guard’s efforts to evacuate 300,000 people from Manhattan on 9/11.

When putting together his list of 100 military destinations, Keeney relied on his own travel experiences, along with recommendations from historians, researchers, soldiers on active duty and friends, he writes in the introduction to his book. He wanted his list to reflect not only the glory and heroism of war, but also its devastating realities. “[S]oldiers sacrificed,” Keeney notes, “war is dirty.”

It was also important to Keeney to include military destinations in as many states as possible, so people across the country could use his book as a guide. “In truth, it was easy,” he writes. “There are an amazing number of places where you can reflect on the accomplishments of our soldiers.”

====== 76 ========

HOW TO TOUR MICHELANGELO’S ROME

Michelangelo had been on his back for 20 months, resting sparingly, and sleeping in his clothes to save time. When it was all over, however, in the fall of 1512, the masterpiece that he left behind on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in Rome would leave the world forever altered.

Born in 1475 to an impoverished but aristocratic family in Caprese, a hillside town near Florence, Michelangelo Buonarroti grew up with an innate sense of pride, which as he aged, would feed his volatile temperament. When he failed to excel at school, his father apprenticed him to Domenico Ghirlandaio, a Florentine frescoist. Cocky from the start, the 13-year-old Michelangelo succeeded in irritating his fellow apprentices, one so badly that the boy punched him in the face, breaking his nose. But in Ghirlandaio’s workshop, Michelangelo learned to paint; in doing so, he caught the attention of Florence’s storied Medici family, whose wealth and political standing would soon put Michelangelo on the map as an artist and, in 1496, chart his course south, to Rome.

“It’s almost as if Michelangelo goes from zero to 65 miles per hour in a second or two,” says William Wallace, an art history professor at Washington University in Saint Louis. “He was 21 when he arrived in Rome, and he hadn’t accomplished a lot yet. He went from relatively small works to suddenly creating the Pietà.”

It was the Rome Pietà (1499), a sculpture of the Virgin Mary cradling the body of her son Jesus in her lap, and the the artist’s next creation in Florence, the nearly 17-foot-tall figure of David (1504) that earned Michelangelo the respect of the greatest art patron of his age: Pope Julius II. The 10-year partnership between the two men was both a meeting of the minds and a constant war of egos and would result in some of the Italian Renaissance’s greatest works of art and architecture, the Sistine Chapel among them.

“Pope Julius had, in some ways, an even larger vision—of putting the papacy back on a proper footing. Michelangelo had the ambition to be the world’s greatest artist,” says Wallace. “Both were somewhat megalomaniacal characters. But I think [the relationship] was also deeply respectful.”

Julius II died in 1513, and in 1515, Michelangelo moved back to Florence for nearly two decades. When he returned to Rome in 1534, the Renaissance man had largely moved away from the painting and sculpting that had defined his early career, instead filling his days with poetry and architecture. Michelangelo considered his work on the dome of St. Peter’s Basilica, which dominated his time beginning in 1546, to be his greatest legacy; the project, he believed, would ultimately offer him salvation in Heaven.

Michelangelo Buonarroti died in Rome following a brief illness in 1564, just weeks before his 89th birthday. When a friend questioned why he had never married, Michelangelo’s answer was simple: “I have too much of a wife in this art that has always afflicted me, and the works I shall leave behind will be my children, and even if they are nothing, they will live for a long while.”

St. Peter’s Basilica: Rome Pietà and Dome

Michelangelo was just 24 when he was commissioned to create the Rome Pietà or “pity.” Unveiled during St. Peter’s Jubilee in 1500, it was one of three Pietà sculptures the artist created during his lifetime. When asked why he chose to portray Mary as a young woman, Michelangelo replied, “Women who are pure in soul and body never grow old.” Legend has it that when Michelangelo overheard admirers of the statue attributing it to another artist, he decided to inscribe his name on the Virgin Mary’s sash. It seems he regretted it, since he never signed another work again.

Forty-seven years later, riddled with kidney stones, Michelangelo once again set his sights on St. Peter’s, this time as chief architect of the basilica’s dome. Visitors to St. Peter’s can climb the 320 steps (or take the elevator) to the top of the dome, with views of the Pantheon and Vatican City.

San Pietro in Vincoli

Pope Julius II recruited Michelangelo to design his tomb at St. Peter’s Basilica in 1505, but the work would go on for almost 30 years. Although the structure was supposed to include dozens of statues by the artist and more than 90 wagonloads of marble, after Julius’ death, Pope Leo X—who hailed from a rival family—kept Michelangelo busy with other plans. Only three statues were included in the final product, which was reassigned to the more modest church of San Pietro in Vincoli. Among them, the artist’s rendering of Moses is the clear scene-stealer. With his penchant for drama, Michelangelo referred to San Pietro as, “the tragedy at the tomb,” since he had “lost his youth” in the creation of it.

Sistine Chapel, the Vatican

Michelangelo considered himself to be foremost a sculptor, not a painter, and when Julius II asked him to decorate the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in May of 1508—tearing him away from his work at the pope’s tomb—the artist was less than pleased. A mildew infestation threatened a portion of the work, and Michelangelo pressed his advantage, telling Julius, “I already told your holiness that painting is not my trade; what I have done is spoiled; if you do not believe it, send and see.” The issue was eventually resolved; Michelangelo set back to work on the 343 human figures and nine stories from the Book of Genesis that the 12,000-square-foot masterpiece would eventually comprise.

Michelangelo often locked horns with the Pope about money and sometimes referred to him as “my Medusa,” while Julius, on at least one occasion, allegedly threatened to beat or throw the artist from the scaffolding of the Sistine Chapel if he did not finish his work more quickly. This abuse aside, the painting eventually took its toll on the artist, who suffered a leg injury when he fell from the scaffolding and partial blindness—a result of staring upwards at the ceiling for so long—which forced him to read letters by raising his arms above his head. In 1536, Michelangelo was summoned back to the chapel to paint The Last Judgment above the altar, this time for Pope Paul III.

Piazza del Campidoglio

Campidoglio, or Capitoline Hill, is one of the seven hills Rome was founded upon and has been central to the city’s government for more than 2,000 years. In 1538, when Michelangelo was asked to put a new face on the ancient site, the task was great: it had been used as headquarters for the Roman guilds during the Middle Ages, and required a major overhaul. The artist set to work on the main square, reshaping it as an oval to create symmetry; adding a third structure, the Palazzo Nuovo; and re-sculpting the base of the 2nd century A.D. statue of Marcus Aurelius (which has since been moved to the Capitoline Museums, nearby). Although the piazza wasn’t finished at the time of Michelangelo’s death, it was completed in various stages during the next 100 years using the artist’s designs. In 1940, Benito Mussolini installed the final element, Michelangelo’s brilliant starburst pattern in the pavement.

Santa Maria degli Angeli e dei Martiri

As a humanist, Michelangelo believed in the preservation of Rome’s ancient ruins. It was a task he took to heart in 1561, when the artist was hired to convert Diocletian’s massive bath hall, erected in 300 A.D., into a church named for the Virgin Mary. Ironically, the facility’s new destiny was at odds with its original means of construction, which is said to have required the forced labor (and frequent deaths) of 40,000 Christian slaves. The artist’s mission centered on the bath hall’s central corridor, the Terme di Diocleziano, with its eight red granite columns that still remain today. Although Michelangelo died before the church was finished, his pupil, Jacopo Lo Duca, saw the project through to completion.

====== 77 ========

ARCHIMEDES WOULD BE PROUD OF THIS NOW-BRIGHT NORWEGIAN TOWN

Scandinavia’s winters are long, dark affairs. In order to brighten things up a bit, Rjukan, a valley town in Norway, installed three 550-square-foot mirrors to focus precious sunlight down to the residents below, NPR reports.

Sensors allow the mirrors to automatically follow the path of the sun, optimizing the angle of the light to capture as much as it as possible. “The square will become a sunny meeting place in a town otherwise in shadow,” Rjukan’s official website writes.

The technique is not new, however. Inspiration for the idea traces back to the 212 BC legend about Archimedes’ burning mirrors used to set Roman battle ships ablaze, NPR says.

More from Smithsonian.com:

Reading Between the Lines

Who Goes to Norway in February?

====== 78 ========

THE BIRD IN THE WORLD’S LARGEST CUCKOO CLOCK WEIGHS 330 POUNDS

In the the world’s largest cuckoo clock, found in Triberg, Germany, the cuckoo bird alone is 14 feet long and weighs 330 pounds. The whole thing is based on a much smaller cuckoo clock that is about 100 years old—the Triberg clock is simply scaled up. By sixty times.

But don’t take it from us. Let this giant wooden statue explain it to you:

Here’s what it looks like when it comes out of the clock:

There are more stats on the clock’s website. The pendulum, for example, is 26 feet long and weighs 220 pounds. But this isn’t the only cuckoo clock that has claimed the “world’s largest” title. There’s another clock in Sugarcreek, Ohio, that claims to be the biggest. This clock is 23 feet tall and 24 feet wide. Guinness World Records doesn’t seem to have awarded anybody the title—but perhaps they should come in to settle the score.

Via The Automata Blog

More from Smithsonian.com:

The Past, Present, and Future of the Cuckoo Clock

A Brief History of Robot Birds

====== 79 ========

PAPER TURTLES AND FRISKY SKATES BRING THIS INDOOR SEASHORE TO LIFE

A loggerhead turtle lumbers through the water, chasing a smack of iridescent jellyfish. Neighboring rays fly along the current, while a pelican swoops down from the sky to gobble an unsuspecting member of a school of fish. It's just another day at the beach.

Related Content The True Inner Beauty of Fishes

This vibrant scene is part of the Diversity Wall, a scientifically accurate mural featured in “Living Seashore,” a new exhibition opening this week at the National Aquarium in Baltimore. While a typical aquarium installation might show how animals operate within the confines of a tank, “Living Seashore” is a hands-on multimedia display that explores the natural behaviors of creatures in the Atlantic Ocean—along with the human impacts that affect their homes in the sand and surf.

The vivid Diversity Wall and accompanying murals help guide guests through the installation, which is designed so visitors move from the sandy shoreline to the deep reaches of the offshore ecosystem.

Ultimately, this exhibition seeks to conjure memories of family trips to the beach and provide visitors with context about what surrounds them when they are frolicking in the sand and water. “People retain information better when it’s connected to personal memories,” says Jennie Janssen, the aquarium's manager of changing exhibits. “When they go to the beach, we hope they’ll be informed and recognize what they see. The exhibition is about where we fit into everything.”

To create an all-encompassing beach environment, the aquarium made the exhibition as tactile as possible. The experience contains 3D replicas of sand dunes with grass and pebbles, as well as a wall that recreates the gradients of a beach shoreline, from dry sand to wet areas marked by frothy waves and transient footprints. The highlight may be a network of touch pools where people can pet excitable clearnose skates and prehistoric-looking horseshoe crabs—common denizens of the shallow waters along the Eastern Seaboard. A separate pool allows visitors to lightly stroke moon jellies, which are found in the deeper, darker Atlantic waters.

The aquarium partnered with environmentally focused art studio Ink Dwell, founded by Jane Kim and Thayer Walker, to create three striking murals for the exhibition. These artworks help showcase parts of the ocean that are not normally visible to human eyes, helping people understand the sometimes invisible impact of human activity. “Our main goal as a studio is to use art and campaigns to protect the natural world,” says Walker.

At the entrance to the exhibition, an Upper Beach mural sets the scene for a sunny day of exploration, with bold blue skies and scattered seagulls. Further along, its Lower Beach counterpart features several silhouettes of people playing on the beach, inviting viewers to envision themselves in that moment. Adjacent to the moon jelly touch pool, the Diversity Wall introduces visitors to the animals of the deep Atlantic that they may not see but that are coexisting with any beach visit. This array of sea creatures includes bottlenose dolphins, a hammerhead shark and Mola mola fish.

Kim worked with a biologist and other aquarium staff to ensure scientific accuracy, taking trips to Assateague Island National Seashore in Maryland to conduct on-the-ground research. To contribute to the tactile nature of the exhibition, the murals were all created using the painstaking process of paper mosaic, which involves layering hundreds of hand-cut tissue paper strips on top of one another. “I put down blocks of color and then built on top of that,” says Kim. “Tissue paper acts very much like paint. You mix pigments, but the medium is paper.”

The paper mosaic technique was popularized during the Victorian Era by British artist Mary Delany, who meticulously crafted life-like botanicals out of paper. Delany wanted her intricate models to accurately capture natural forms through art, including one flower that contained 230 paper “petals.” As reported in The New York Times, author William Gilpin wrote of her work at the time: “These flowers have both the beauty of painting, and the exactness of botany.”

Building on this theme, Kim, Walker and the broader Ink Dwell team—including Danza Chisholm-Sims, Cleo Vilett and James Walwer—spent over a year working with the aquarium to sketch out the idea and choose the right animals to provide a realistic depiction of the seashore ecosystem. The murals also serve as graphic interpretations of themes in marine biology, emphasizing the movement and interconnectedness of the underwater community. “The currents that are shown in this paper ocean act as a ribbon and connector,” says Kim. “Like the lines on sheet music, the mural is very lyrical, and animals are placed like notes on a page.”

“Art can really shape people’s perspective,” she adds. “It’s a voice, a way to guide people and help change their attitude by making an emotional connection.”

====== 80 ========

WHY KILLER WHALES BELONG IN THE OCEAN, NOT SEAWORLD

He’s a whistle-blower who carried an actual whistle, which he wore around his neck during his 12 years as a trainer of killer whales at SeaWorld theme parks. The whistle, intended to get the attention of the 8,000-pound animals swimming around in the tank, saved his life on occasion, but it easily could have cost him his life if a whale had grabbed it to pull him into the water. As a precaution, John Hargrove writes in a new book, Beneath the Surface, the lanyard had a breakaway ring—and thus served as a “kind of rosary, a subtle reminder of how suddenly the hour of death may come upon you when working with orcas.”

Hargrove was one of the first voices heard in Blackfish, the 2013 documentary that raised questions about SeaWorld’s practices; it was released three years after the death of a SeaWorld trainer named Dawn Brancheau, who was attacked by an orca during a performance. Hargrove’s book elaborates on some of the documentary’s claims but also testifies to the thrill of standing athwart four tons of muscle rushing through the water at 30 miles an hour. And, equally, the nearly mystical experience of bonding with an intelligence eerily similar to our own, yet ultimately unfathomable—and uncontrollable.

Hargrove, who quit SeaWorld in 2012, suffered numerous broken bones and nearly destroyed his sinuses. It was a risk he ran with his eyes open, and one that, in the end, he seems to feel was almost worth it. “I owe those whales,” he says in an interview. “They gave me so much in my life and my career.” But the whales’ physical and emotional well-being, he grew to believe, was incompatible with captivity. Confined to unnatural social groups for the convenience of their owners, bored and restless, forced to perform tricks for food that trainers withheld as punishment, they occasionally slipped, he writes, “into the dark side.”

SeaWorld won’t discuss Hargrove’s book before it appears, but vice president of communications Fred Jacobs writes in an email that “John Hargrove joined ranks with animal rights extremists after leaving SeaWorld and has eagerly embraced their habit of misleading the public to advance an agenda.” The company disputes most of the assertions in Blackfish, but it has outfitted some pools with fast-rising floors, so that a person who falls into the water with a whale can be quickly lifted to the surface. (After Brancheau’s death, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration prohibited trainers from performing in the water with orcas.) Trainers have begun carrying emergency compressed air. And the San Diego park plans to begin construction this year on a new orca habitat, called Blue World, that will more than double the swimming space.

Hargrove, living now in New York City, has adopted a pet of his own: Beowulf, a 98-pound pit bull-Dalmatian cross. She is, he says, as close as you can get to a killer whale in dog form.

====== 81 ========

VICTORIA AND ABDUL: THE FRIENDSHIP THAT SCANDALIZED ENGLAND

As part of the festivities to celebrate Queen Victoria’s Golden Jubilee, celebrating 50 years on the throne, the Queen hosted dozens of foreign rulers at a lavish banquet. She led a grand procession to Westminster Abbey in open carriage, escorted by the Indian cavalry, greeted screaming crowds on her palace balcony, and enjoyed fireworks in the garden. But of all the jubilee’s memorable events, it was the queen’s encounter with Abdul Karim that became the most significant. The young man had arrived in the United Kingdom as a “gift from India,” one intended to help Victoria address the Indian princes at her banquet. Karim would quickly prove to be the queen’s most trusted confidant, and the most despised member of the royal court.

Queen Victoria’s unusually close friendship with her Indian servant began at the 1887 celebration and spanned 14 years, a period captured in the new movie Victoria & Abdul, starring Judi Dench as the titular queen. Karim was the queen’s beloved munshi, the teacher who gave her daily Urdu lessons, educated her on Indian affairs, and introduced her to curry. Queen Victoria in turn showered him with gifts, titles and honors, much to the resentment of the royal family. When the queen died in 1901, her children burned every letter she sent Karim, whom they unceremoniously deported back to India. Yet his record lives on, thanks in large part to his diary, preserved by generations of descendants.

That diary was only recently unearthed by Shrabani Basu, the historian who wrote the movie’s source text. As Basu recounts in her book of the same name, Karim was born near Jhansi, the second-oldest child of six. His father, Haji Wuzeeruddin, was a hospital assistant, a skilled position that required some medical qualifications. While this occupation did not place Wuzeeruddin in the upper class, it was a good job, one that allowed him to hire a Maulvi, or Muslim scholar, to tutor his son. Under the Maulvi’s tutelage, Karim learned both Persian and Urdu. He eventually secured a clerk position at a jail in Agra, one where his father and the brothers of his soon-to-be wife both worked. It was there that Karim was handpicked to serve the somewhat recently christened Empress of India, Queen Victoria.

The jail superintendent, John Tyler, offered Karim the opportunity. Tyler had recently escorted 34 inmates to the Colonial and Indian Exhibition of 1886 in London, where he showed off the carpets they had woven as part of their rehabilition program. Queen Victoria was impressed, and had asked Tyler during his trip about selecting two Indian attendants to assist her at her Golden Jubilee. The men would facilitate communication with Indian dignitaries and wait on the queen. Karim was paired with Mohamed Buxshe, an experienced servant who ran the household of a British general. Compared with Buxshe, Karim was woefully unprepared for his new duties. But before he departed for London, he received a crash course in palace etiquette and the English language, as well as a brand-new wardrobe.

Queen Victoria’s first impression of Karim was recorded in her diaries, where she deemed him “tall with a fine serious countenance.” After their jubilee duties concluded, Karim and Buxshe traveled with the queen to her summer home on the Isle of Wight. There, Karim distinguished himself by surprising the sovereign with one of his favorite recipes. Using spices he had brought from Agra, Karim cooked a chicken curry with dal and pilau. According to Victoria biographer A.N. Wilson, the queen declared the dish “excellent” and added it to her regular menu rotation.

Eager to immerse herself further in Indian culture, Victoria asked Karim to teach her Urdu, or, as it was known at the time, Hindustani. Their lessons initially seemed somewhat relaxed. “Am learning a few words of Hindustani to speak to my servants,” Victoria wrote. “It is a great interest to me, for both the language and the people.” That interest soon turned to zeal. In an effort to improve communication between teacher and student, the queen doubled Karim’s English lessons, and he was a fast learner. Within two months, Victoria had ceased sending Karim instructions through her staff and begun writing him directly. Within a few more, she had bestowed upon him the title of Munshi Hafiz Abdul Karim, making him her official Indian clerk and relieving him of his menial duties.

This developing relationship alarmed members of the court, because it felt all too familiar. Prior to Karim, Victoria’s closest confidant had been her Scottish servant, John Brown. The queen had leaned heavily on Brown after her husband Albert’s death, so much so that several members of the court derisively referred to her as “Mrs. Brown.” (The movie adapation of that story, Mrs. Brown, also starred Dench as Victoria.) But Brown had died in 1883, and no servant had taken his place in the queen’s inner circle. Karim, however, was increasingly stepping into that role. He was traveling constantly with Victoria and, as Michael Nelson notes in Queen Victoria and the Discovery of the Riveria, even occupying Brown’s old bedchambers.

Although Karim’s diaries suggest nothing romantic, his relationship with Queen Victoria was oddly intimate. The two turned heads when they spent the night at Glassat Shiel, a remote cottage in Scotland that the queen had previously shared with John Brown. (After his death, she had vowed never to return.) Basu notes that Victoria signed letters to Karim as “your closest friend” and “your loving mother.” He was also afforded perks few servants could fathom. The queen not only allowed the Munshi to bring his wife over to England, but hosted his father and other family members. Karim enjoyed his own personal carriage and the best seats at the opera.

In their letters to one another, Victorian courtiers wished awful fates upon the Munshi. Basu shares several nasty excerpts in her book. Lady-in-waiting Marie Millet rued, “Why the plague did not carry him off I cannot think, it might have done one good deed!” Private secretary Arthur Bigge wished Karim and his father “a happy and lasting retreat in the Jail!”

Some royal associates had reasonable complaints about Karim’s extravagant requests. He frequently asked the queen for favors, such as securing his father a pension or his former boss a promotion. But it wasn’t just his arrogance that annoyed them. Historians have plainly pinned the hatred on 19th-century racism. As Carolly Erickson writes in Her Little Majesty, “For a dark-skinned Indian to be put very nearly on a level with the queen’s white servants was all but intolerable, for him to eat at the same table with them, to share in their daily lives was viewed as an outrage.”

The queen was well aware of this animosity towards Karim, and did not tolerate it. Fritz Ponsonby, her assistant private secretary, articulated her unwavering stance in a letter. “The Queen insists on bringing the Munshi forward, and if it were not for our protest, I don’t know where she would stop,” he wrote. “But it is no use, for the Queen says it is ‘race prejudice’ and that we are jealous of the poor Munshi.” Victoria heaped gifts and titles upon Karim partially because she knew the court would not pay him the same respect once she was dead. But she made sure her friend would be comfortable and remembered.

While Karim already enjoyed homes at the royal residences of Windsor, Balmoral and Osborne, Victoria also secured a land grant for him back in Agra. She commissioned multiple portraits of him, and had him written up in the Court Circulars and local gazettes. In her final wishes, she was quite explicit: Karim would be one of the principal mourners at her funeral, an honor afforded only to the monarch’s closest friends and family. Victoria could not control what happened to the Munshi from beyond the grave, but she did everything in her power to mitigate the harsh treatment she presumed her family would inflict upon him.

The queen’s fears were justified. Upon her death on January 22, 1901, Victoria’s children worked swiftly to evict their mother’s favorite adviser. Edward VII sent guards into the cottage Karim shared with his wife, seizing all letters from the queen and burning them on the spot. They instructed Karim to return to India immediately, without fanfare or farewell.

Victoria’s heirs could not completely erase the Munshi from public record, but they edited and obscured his narrative to the best of their abilities. Karim died in Agra in 1909 with his correspondence destroyed and no children to preserve his memories. But something had survived the guards’ bonfire: his personal diary. The book secretly stayed in the family of Abdul Rashid, the Munshi’s nephew, for several generations. His descendants shared the journal with Basu in 2010, over a century after the queen’s death. Kamir’s diary gave incredible new details on an unexpected, intense friendship that crossed class and racial lines -- one that began over a delicious plate of chicken curry.

====== 82 ========

WHY THE TRUE STORY OF “CHAPPAQUIDDICK” IS IMPOSSIBLE TO TELL

Mary Jo Kopechne was 28 years old when she attended a party on Chappaquiddick Island, a tiny spit near Martha’s Vineyard, on July 18, 1969. Joined by five of her friends from the 1968 presidential campaign for Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, Kopechne had already made waves in Democratic circles in Washington, working for a Florida senator before moving to Kennedy’s Senate staff. She proved herself adept by helping to write an anti-Vietnam War speech for RFK, and helped write the address announcing his ill-fated candidacy for president.

Edward “Ted” Kennedy, meanwhile, was the last surviving son of Joseph Kennedy at the time of the party. After the wartime death of Joseph Jr. and the assassinations of John and Robert, Ted remained as the political leader of the family, a sitting U.S. senator from Massachusetts, with a potential run at the presidency in his future.

As the host of the party in question, Ted brought the women together for a reunion that included Kennedy’s cousin, Joseph Gargan, and former U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Paul Markham. But by the end of the night, the festivities had turned tragic: Kennedy’s car overturned on a small bridge and landed upside-down in the water. While Kennedy survived, Kopechne, his passenger, drowned. What happened on that bridge? Was Kennedy drinking and driving? What were he and Kopechne doing together alone in the first place? The details at the time were, as they are now, sparse. It would be a full 10 hours before Kennedy reported the incident to local police.

It’s the story of this night that would become an enduring black mark on Kennedy’s political career and that serves as fodder for the new film Chappaquiddick, starring Jason Clarke as Ted Kennedy. The scandal haunted him, and the Democratic party, for decades and was also blamed for ruining his presidential prospects. (Kennedy for his part claimed in his autobiography that “it was not a determinant” in his decision to run for president in 1980.)

Screenwriters Taylor Allen and Andrew Logan felt the drama was the perfect subject for a film about the disposability of women, the impossible expectations of the Kennedy family, how power gets abused, and the role of the media in hiding or exposing political scandal.

Although they don’t claim complete veracity for their film—director John Curran says he wasn’t interested in making a documentary on the incident—all three men strove to hew as closely as possible to actual events. Logan and Allen based their script on the nearly 1000-page inquest released by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in 1970.

“The two people who really know what happened that night are dead: Ted and Mary Jo,” Curran says. “And the others around them, the ones that are still alive, they aren’t going to say anything.”

Part of the reason details are so spotty comes from those 10 hours of waiting to report the accident. Why didn’t Kennedy contact authorities sooner? He would later claim he was suffering from physical and emotional shock, and not thinking clearly. And then there was talk of a cover-up, of Kennedy and his press team attempting to downplay the incident so as not to harm his future political aspirations.

“Sometimes I’d like to scream a lot but I’m trying to hold it back,” said Gwen Kopechne, the mother of Mary Jo, to the Boston Globe. “It would be nice if somebody spoke up.” But she also told McCall’s Magazine that she believed Kennedy had been behaving erratically after the accident due to shock and a minor concussion. What she didn’t understand were how Gargan and Markham, Kennedy’s aides who also attempted to retrieve Mary Jo from the car after the accident, didn’t report the accident or force Ted to do so.

“Gargan and Markham not only failed to get immediate help, but also let the senator swim back alone to report the accident from Edgartown,” the elder Kopechne said. “This is the big hurt, the nightmare we have to live with for the rest of our lives: that Mary Jo was left in the water for nine hours. She didn’t belong there.”

No one ever provided the answers she wanted. In the immediate aftermath of the car accident, the nation—and the media—were largely distracted by the Apollo 11 moon landing.

“It was the greatest moment in John F. Kennedy’s presidential [legacy] happening at the worst possible moment for Ted-Kennedy-the-senator’s potential legacy,” Allen says. That backdrop of an already distracted news media provided Ted’s team with time for damage control, and further obscured the truth about what actually happened.

But once the moon landing receded from the immediate news cycle, the story of Kennedy and Kopechne exploded. Curran and his producers attempted to capture the media coverage by intercutting archival news footage and newspaper headlines throughout the narrative. The film also emphasizes the strain it put on Kennedy’s wife, Joan, who was pregnant at the time. She ultimately suffered a miscarriage, which she blamed on the incident. At the same time, she told the wire service United Press International, “I believe everything Ted said.” She didn’t pay heed to allegations that Kennedy and Kopechne were going for a midnight swim when the accident happened.

This fervor for more details about what exactly happened, and whether some misconduct had occurred between the married men and single women the night of the party, was also experienced by those who attended the party the night of Kopechne’s death. Among them were Susan Tannenbaum, who also worked on Robert Kennedy’s campaign staff.

“You can’t begin to understand what it’s been like,” Tannenbaum later said. “I place a tremendous value on the right of privacy, but suddenly I’m infamous. The real meaning of what you are and what you value remains intact inside yourself; but there you are splashed all over the papers. How would you feel if a reporter called your mother at 8 a.m. and asked whether she approved of her daughter’s conduct in spending the night with a group of married men?”

That aspect of the accident particularly galled the screenwriters. In an era when women were only beginning to enter the workforce in high numbers, press coverage only added to their objectification. “[Kopechne] was an intelligent, strong woman who worked for the Bobby Kennedy campaign in a high capacity and did really great work, including transcribing and then adding to the speech he gave about Vietnam,” Allen says.

In the end, Kennedy appeared in court and pleaded guilty to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident. Judge James Boyle sentenced Kennedy to the minimum punishment for the offense, two months’ incarceration, but Kennedy never served the jail time, as the judge suspended the sentence.

“He has already been and will continue to be punished far beyond anything this court can impose—the ends of justice would be satisfied by the imposition of the minimum jail sentence and the suspension of that sentence, assuming the defendant accepts the suspension,” Boyle said, with the result that the suspension was accepted by the defense team.

No public inquest into the death occurred, and Kennedy went on to make a televised speech about the accident. That speech is one of the few scenes in which the writers of Chappaquiddick took liberties with the facts of the case. In the movie, Kennedy cousin Joe Gargan unsuccessfully tries to convince Ted to read a resignation letter rather than going on television. “We have no evidence in the research to back that up, although it’s evident that it was considered,” Allen says.

Since then, the Chappaquiddick incident has been used repeatedly as a go-to insult by conservative politicians, particularly when one of their own came under the microscope of a D.C.-scandal. Faith Whittlesey, a Pennsylvania Republican and White House staff member under President Reagan, recalled thinking the incident would be “the end of Kennedy,” and that he could be blocked from the presidency for the rest of his career. The story was occasionally resurrected to point to the questions that remained unanswered, even as Kennedy remained in the Senate until his death in 2009.

Though Curran was nervous about taking on someone whose political achievements he admired (especially since there continue to be numerous conspiracy theories about the accident, including that a third person was in the car), he felt the task to be a necessary one.

“Whether you’re on the left or right side of the aisle, it’s imperative that we take a pretty hard, unvarnished look at our heroes these days,” Curran says. “The time is done to let all these guys skate by. I think if this story happened now, it would overshadow the moon landing.”

But in 1969, the reverse proved true. The closing scene of Chappaquiddick features a bit of archival footage, from a man-on-the-street style interview in Boston. A reporter asks one person after another whether they would still consider voting for Kennedy after the Chappaquiddick accident. They answer, many resoundingly, with a “yes.

====== 83 ========

W.E.B. DU BOIS’ VISIONARY INFOGRAPHICS COME TOGETHER FOR THE FIRST TIME IN FULL COLOR

After three decades of emancipation, the gains made by African-Americans, those that existed at all, presented a decidedly mixed picture about the state of racial progress in the country. The political obstacles were voluminous, with the failure of Reconstruction still lingering, and Jim Crow institutional racism ascendant. In 1897, the United States Supreme Court would rule in Plessy v. Ferguson that separate was indeed equal. All the while, new generations of African-Americans found ways to uplift themselves, despite discrimination, through grassroots efforts in education, work and community building.

After graduating with a Ph.D. in history from Harvard University, W.E.B. Du Bois, the prominent African-American intellectual, sought a way to process all this information showing why the African disapora in America was being held back in a tangible, contextualized form. ”It is not one problem,” as Du Bois wrote in 1898, “but rather a plexus of social problems, some new, some old, some simple, some complex; and these problems have their one bond of unity in the act that they group themselves above those Africans whom two centuries of slave-trading brought into the land.”

To accomplish this goal, Du Bois turned to the burgeoning field of sociology. Sociology’s scope in history, statistics, and demographics held the potential to quantifiably reveal "life within the Veil," as Du Bois called the structural forces of oppressions that separated black and white populations, whether that came to educational attainment, voting rights or land ownership.

And so, almost two decades before Robert E. Park and the Chicago school were conducting ethnographic field work and statistical analysis, Du Bois pioneered a new way to use sociology: to use those methodologies to contextualize the historical realities resonating among African-Americans.

After embarking on a sprawling sociological study of African-Americans living in Philadelphia, he was hired as a professor at the historically black Atlanta University in 1897. There, he established a sociology program, now recognized as the first school of American sociology. It was in this capacity that a former classmate of Du Bois, Thomas Junius Calloway, approached Du Bois to ask if his old friend would contribute a social study about African-American life to the Exposition Universelle, the Paris World Fair of 1900.

Calloway, an educator, journalist and lawyer, had petitioned the U.S. government for space to display the progress made by African-Americans since slavery in the American display. The federal government’s department of education and social economy agreed to sponsor the exhibit, and in January 1899, it appointed Calloway a special agent to complete the task. With a short window of time before the fair, Calloway approached the leading African-American thinkers of the day to include their work in the upcoming exhibit, which was called “The American Negro.”

For Du Bois, the show presented both an opportunity and a challenge. Part of his contribution was carefully curating 500 photographs to show a nuanced snapshot of what life was like for black Americans. While he wanted to use the photographs to undercut racist stereotypes about African-Americans, the images alone did not relay the underlining ways that the institution of slavery continued to impact African-American progress in the country. So he set about making approximately 60 carefully handmade data visualizations, to dictate, in full, vibrant color, the reasons why black America was being held back.

The project presented Du Bois with a way to further test the possibilities of visualizing the empirical data he and his Atlanta University students and alumni were collecting, says Britt Rusert, associate professor in the W. E. B. Du Bois Department of Afro-American Studies at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

Rusert and Whitney Battle-Baptiste, associate professor of anthropology at U-Mass and director of its W.E.B. Du Bois Center, are the editors of a newly published book, W.E.B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits: Visualizing Black America. It is, somehow, the first time that Du Bois’ groundbreaking data visualizations from the Paris World Fair have been collected together in color in a book format.

W. E. B. Du Bois's Data Portraits: Visualizing Black America The colorful charts, graphs, and maps presented at the 1900 Paris Exposition by famed sociologist and black rights activist W. E. B. Du Bois offered a view into the lives of black Americans, conveying a literal and figurative representation of "the color line." From advances in education to the lingering effects of slavery, these prophetic infographics—beautiful in design and powerful in content— make visible a wide spectrum of black experience. Buy

While they are known as Du Bois’ infographics, he wasn’t working alone; it took an interdisciplinary team of black students and alumni spread across the South to create them. Likewise, Rusert, Battle-Baptiste and book designer Silas Munro combined their areas of expertise to tease out just what made these works such a landmark achievement of their day.

“[Du Bois and his team] had a set of questions, and they knew they needed to use different tools and different methods in order to represent the data and to grapple with those questions,” Rusert says.

While Aldon Morris, professor of sociology at Northwestern University—who resurrected Du Bois’ rightful place at the birth of sociology in his 2015 text, The Scholar Denied (and also contributed a chapter for W.E.B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits)—detailed how the black students of Du Bois’ program were practicing and engaging in sociological work decades before their counterparts in the Chicago school, much remains to be learned about the work being done in Du Bois’ sociology laboratory.

“The more that you look at the [visualizations], you start to see more and more hands,” Rusert says. Correspondences suggest, for instance, that William Andrew Rogers, an alumnus of Atlanta University who had a degree in sociology, played a major role in creating the infographics. “At least once Du Bois identifies him as being the point person, or the sort of lead person in this project,” says Rusert.

But Du Bois wasn’t just using his own students in the sociology lab at Atlanta University; he was also drawing data and relying on surveys, which were “conducted by a sort of extended network of field researchers across the South,” according to Rusert. That included students who graduated from Atlanta University and moved elsewhere, showing evidence of a network of black sociologists throughout the region.

One set of infographics explored life for African-Americans in Georgia—which at the time had the largest black population in the U.S.—breaking down the number of black children enrolled in public schools, family budgets, income and expenditure, occupations, and even the value of household and kitchen furniture owned. The second set of infographics had a more expansive purview, comparing national and international data sets, such as examining the literary rate of black Americans in comparison to other nations, as well as looking at what the occupations of black Americans were, where they lived in the U.S., and how much land they held.

The way DuBois wielded this data to convey these realities was pioneering, but so, too, were the visual aesthetics of the infographics. Munro, who wrote the captions for each of the plates, came to see Du Bois as an innovator in design. In the book, he positions the data visualizations as “infographic activism” in their ability to get to the heart of inequities of the day. But he also points out that the compelling art, which was done in ink, gouache watercolor, graphite and photographic prints, deserves to be considered in its own right. The team’s Modernist use of shape, color and structure, created just before the rise of Europe’s avant-garde movements, he argues, makes the work nothing less than visionary.

For Rusert’s part, as she worked through the archival history, she saw Du Bois as a curator, observing his intentionality of detail, which included carefully positioning the large-scale color data visualizations on the walls of the exhibit hall. “He clearly had these ideas about how and where he wanted these images to be installed, and how he wanted them to be presented,” she says. Du Bois was so determined to travel to Paris and install the works himself, she says, that he scrounged up the money to pay for passage in steerage. It was a degrading means of travel that he could not have taken without some irony, knowing he was on his way to extrapolate why African-Americans continued to be treated as second-class citizens in the U.S.

The data graphics were designed to appeal to both an international and stateside audience. They included French typography and writing to reach Europeans, says Rusert. However, she adds, the team also had an eye to U.S. audiences when they worked, as they knew the exhibit would eventually travel back home, going on view at Buffalo's Pan-Am Exposition, along with other stops around the country.

When the tour of the exhibit was finally finished, all of the materials—photographs, essays, research, the data visualizations, and more—were packed up and sent to the Library of Congress. There, they’ve stayed for decades. It wasn’t until the Library digitized the holdings that the vibrant, bold historical visualizations of Du Bois and his Atlanta team became widely available for view. With their dissemination came renewed interest in their work.

“It really speaks to our own moment in which people are thinking about race and data and thinking about visual design and thinking about data visualization,” says Rusert. Today’s technological advancements opens up a bold new frontier for the possibilities of using data visualization to demonstrate inequities embedded in today’s society. Take, for instance, MacArthur genius grant award-winner Nikole Hannah-Jones’ work utilizing data to reveal the rampant school segregation in play today. Or the Los Angeles Times’ thought-provoking “Mapping L.A.” project. In an especially out-of-the-box example, Jillian Crandall, an architect and researcher, uses data visualization in a video game format.

Certainly, the means of collecting and displaying information today far surpass what Du Bois and his Atlanta University team were working with in 1900. Yet their findings remain compelling today. Just last year, the Guardian’s data editor was inspired to recreate the visualizations to reflect the realities of inequality in today’s world.

W.E.B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits was published on the sesquicentennial year of the Du Bois’ birth, and it further reaffirms the scholar’s place as a founding figure in American sociology. The recirculation of Du Bois’ data portraits offer a new opportunity to marvel at the forward-thinking work being done at Atlanta University.

It seems safe to say Du Bois would have been happy to see his work retain such relevance. Even in 1900, it appears he had other plans for his data visualizations than being quietly stored away in the Library of Congress. When Rusert and Battle-Baptiste were working on the book, they found Du Bois had written a letter to Callaway requesting whether it was possible for him to get the images back. Callaway, in turn, told Du Bois to write directly to the Library of Congress. As the infographics never left the Library, it appears he was not successful.

What was he hoping to do with them? Rusert believes there’s definitely a possibility he was interested in using them to teach his disciples at Atlanta University. “If so,” she says, “we can think about them as sort of like visual aids for classroom learning.”

====== 84 ========

WES ANDERSON’S CURATORIAL DEBUT WITH JUMAN MALOUF TRANSFORMS VIENNA MUSEUM INTO ONE OF FILMMAKER’S DOLLHOUSES

Unlike most exhibitions, the Kunsthistorisches Museum’s latest show eschews curatorial scholarship and historical connections in favor of purely visual characteristics. Spitzmaus Mummy in a Coffin and Other Treasures, as the exhibition is called, presents eight rooms filled with disparate curiosities linked largely by subject matter, color, medium or size. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this visually pleasing, idiosyncratic dollhouse of sorts was dreamed up by filmmaker Wes Anderson, who makes his curatorial debut at the Vienna institution in conjunction with illustrator, costume designer and novelist Juman Malouf.

As Cody Delistraty reports for the New York Times, Spitzmaus Mummy brings together 423 objects, many of which have been languishing in storage for decades, hand-picked from the museum’s collection of some 4.5 million works.

The coffin that gives the exhibit its name sits at the center of room five, lording its newfound prominence over an array of animal-themed artifacts, including a marble Roman lion dating to the 2nd century A.D., a bronze Japanese tortoise from the Edo Period and a clay hedgehog crafted by Greek artisans between 600 and 580 B.C.

Jasper Sharp—an adjunct curator of modern and contemporary art who in 2015 recruited Anderson and Malouf to lead the Kunsthistorisches’ third artist-curated exhibition—tells artnet News’ Kate Brown that the Spitzmaus, or shrew, mummy normally stands obscured in a row of similar tombs in the museum’s Egyptian wing. Now, the critter, which has been waiting for its turn in the spotlight since the 4th century B.C., is finally “having [its] one night as the white swan.”

In room two, color is clearly the common factor, with lush shades of green represented by a 17th-century emerald vessel, a dress worn in a 1970s staging of Henrik Ibsen’s Hedda Gabler, slabs of malachite, a 19th-century Peruvian skirt adorned with green feathers and an Indonesian lute.

Other galleries place material and usage at the forefront. One wood-paneled room features a roughly million-year-old piece of petrified wood, a rather literal depiction of wood painted onto maple panel and a wooden sculpture. “A material becomes a lens on the evolution of art,” the Times’ Delistraty writes, “from the functional and artless, to the artful pretending toward authenticity, to the decadently useless.”

Room six finds itself embroiled in a puzzle of sorts: An empty display case sits alongside Austrian military chests, a German flute case and several crucifix holders. The conceit, Sharp tells Delistraty, is that the glass case is an object of its own merit, a “conceptual vitrine.”

Artsy’s Kimberly Bradley observes that the show offers clear hints of its curators’ distinctive artistic styles. The attention to symmetry and color, as well as the overstuffed nature of the displays and emphasis on perceived misfits, is typical of Anderson, whose work on films including The Royal Tenenbaums, The Grand Budapest Hotel and Moonrise Kingdom has earned him six Oscar nominations. Malouf’s touch is apparent in what Bradley terms “her eye for representational detail and poetic sensibility.”

Spitzmaus Mummy is undoubtedly eclectic—but Delistraty argues that it tends to equate this eclecticism with an emotional charge. The result is an exhibition, he says, with “Anderson’s surface-level aesthetic, but none of the underlying narrative or emotion of his movies.”

In a museum statement, Anderson explains that he and Malouf, who are partners, learned through a “process of trial-and-error,” noting, in rueful parentheticals, “in this case, error.” Although the underlying connections between artifacts were apparent to the pair, the museum’s curators sometimes had trouble connecting the dots in the story they were telling through the exhibition.

But traditional curation was never Anderson and Malouf’s goal: Instead, the duo hoped to spotlight forgotten treasures of the Kunsthistorisches’ collection in a contemporary iteration of Renaissance cabinets of curiosities. And their selections—from Frans Luycx’s 1651 painting, “Archduke Karl Joseph Aged About One-and-a-Half With a Pet Dog and a Cockatoo,” to the lone finger of a bronze Roman statue and a 19th-century hatbox for “the bicorne of a general of the Austrian imperial army”—more than do the job, providing visitors with a singular, decidedly non-art historical glimpse into the past.

Spitzmaus Mummy in a Coffin and Other Treasures is on view at Vienna's Kunsthistorisches Museum through April 28, 2019.

====== 85 ========

STAN LEE HELPED SHAPE THE STORY OF WHAT IT IS TO BE AMERICAN

For Eric Jentsch, it was Black Bolt, the leader of a genetically altered race known as the Inhumans, who debuted in Marvel’s Fantastic Four in December 1965. As Black Bolt’s powerful voice could lay waste to his surroundings, the comic-book character resolved not to speak at all.

“That really resonated with me,” says Jentsch, curator and deputy chair of the division of culture and arts at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History. Growing up, Jentsch latched onto the inward-looking character, who understood more than most how “speaking can be both powerful but also dangerous.”

Every Marvel fan can name a character like Black Bolt, whose complexities, flaws and abilities especially hit home. They owe a debt of gratitude to the man synonymous with establishing that sprawling universe of characters, Stan Lee, who died Monday, November 12, at age 95.

“He's responsible for creating a lot of our shared stories about what it is to be an American,” says Jentsch.

Lee, who was born Stanley Lieber in New York City in 1922 to Romanian Jewish immigrants, recognized early on that the one thing more powerful than a perfect superhero was a human one.

“As a kid I would relish reading comics of all the characters that he created,” says Jentsch. “It really influenced my understanding of the world, especially in terms of interpersonal issues, different personality types, and philosophical questions; things I wasn’t really getting anywhere else.”

When Lee was just shy of 18 years old, his cousin-in-law Martin Goodman, a pulp publisher, hired him on as an assistant at Timely Comics. There, editor Joe Simon and artist Jack Kirby were turning out the highly successful Captain America Comics. But once they found out they were being shortchanged on profits, they began writing on the side for rival National Comics Publications, later to be renamed DC Comics. A murky series of events followed. When the dust settled, Goodman, having learned about the duo’s moonlighting, fired Simon and Kirby, and temporarily promoted Lee to serve as the editorial director in their absence. That proved to be Lee’s big break, and there he stayed, long past temporary, as editor-in-chief of the publication, the fixture steering the ship through Timely’s reincarnations as Atlas and, later, Marvel.

It was the Silver Age of Comics and by the 1960s, Lee, together with luminary co-creators Kirby (who would return, somewhat bitterly, to work with Lee under a work-for-hire arrangement) and Steve Ditko, hit upon an alchemy that led to the birth of the challenging, subversive, wanting heroes of the Marvel universe that continue to resonate today.

“Many of the superheroes that we're seeing in movies [today] are about the people he created in the ’60s,” says Jentsch. “It's not as if there are these waves of new superheroes that people are engaging with. The core Marvel Universe is still the one that he created.”

One of popular culture’s biggest strongholds is finding inroads to capture the current moment in ways that are accessible and relatable, and Lee demonstrated a remarkable sense for how to successfully weigh in on the day’s anxieties. “Lee knew that balance,” says Jentsch. “He made these really exciting stories about complex characters, but would always kind of add this commentary in them to make them both more interesting, but also to make people a little more thoughtful about the world around them.”

What Lee also recognized was that everyone wanted to see themselves represented on the page. “The celebration around his character Black Panther so many years later shows that there’s still a need for more stories, more diversity, for all the different types of people that populated this country to have representation in stories,” says Jentsch. “I think that Lee was aware of that and tried to have characters that represented not only different personality types, but just different types of people."

Lee kept working toward that with now-iconic titles, such as the original X-Men, Thor, The Fantastic Four, Captain America and The Incredible Hulk. "He expanded his universe to include more stories and more people, and I think that that has had an impact on how people see themselves as part of this country," Jentsch says.

Lee's death, comes, perhaps, at the height of his name recognition. While he always embraced his role as the public face of Marvel— "Smilin' Stan," if you will—in recent years, Marvel movie fame further skyrocketed his profile. “Many people have peaks and valleys, [but there] has been a pretty steady ascent and recognition of his importance," Jentsch says. "He did not die forgotten."

The comic book maven leaves behind a singular legacy, so much so that Jentsch struggles to think of how to contextualize him among his peers. “It would be hard to think of someone who generated so many different characters that have such a long cultural property. . . . I'm really trying to think of what an equivalent would be,” he says. "It's hard."

Beginning November 20, 2018, the National Museum of American History will be showcasing select Superhero artifacts from the museum’s collections, which will include a shield from Captain America: Civil War and a pair of Wolverine's claws. The display will run through September 2, 2019.

====== 86 ========

COULD 3-D PRINTING SAVE MUSIC EDUCATION?

Kaitlyn Hova is many things: a violinist, a web developer, a designer, a composer and a neuroscientist. And it was the blurring of these interests that bore a clear and clever idea.

As music programs are being slashed from school budgets, and STEM education is receiving more funding, why not take advantage of the influx of 3-D printers and teach students how to print their own musical instruments?

Hova and her husband, who cofounded Hova Labs, have developed the Hovalin, an open source, 3-D printable acoustic violin.

At “The Long Conversation,” an event that brought together 25 thinkers for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues at the Smithsonian Arts & Industries Building last December, Hova even performed on a souped-up Hovalin that paired her notes with a colorful light show emitted from the transparent body of the instrument.

Hova was inspired by her own experience with synesthesia, a neurological condition in which the stimulation of one sense (hearing, for instance) leads to an involuntary stimulation of another sense (say, sight).

“I hear sound in color,” Hova explained at the event. “Whenever I hear the note D, I see blue. When I hear E, it’s yellow. F is a weird light green. G is super green. A is orangish-red. B is purple. C is super red.”

Watch Hova’s performance—and mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Tune in on livestream here.

====== 87 ========

WHY THE FLAMINGO SIGNALED THE BIRTH OF SIN CITY

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 88 ========

WHAT THE FIRST RADIO COMMERCIAL JINGLE SOUNDED LIKE

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 89 ========

WHAT MAKES THIS CANADIAN TRAIN SO SPECIAL?

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 90 ========

THE LIVING GODDESS OF NEPAL

16th Annual Smithsonian.com Photo Contest

The Living Goddess of Nepal

The Living Goddess of Patan, who has been selected just 4 months ago and who is 6 years old, poses for a portrait in the worshiping room of her new home inside the Kumari Temple of Patan, in Kathmandu Valley. Picked up from the Nepalese Newari community at the age from 3 to 6, she is believed to be the personification of the Goddess Taleju or Devi, worshipped both by Hindus and Buddhists. Despite there are different Living Goddesses or Kumaris (princess or un-married girl) in Nepal, the most important ones are the Kumaris of Kathmandu and Patan.

TAGS: Girl, Nepal

====== 91 ========

OH LORD!

16th Annual Smithsonian.com Photo Contest

Oh Lord!

Oh Lord! Save me from all the evil..... This huge-eyed primate is one of the unforgettable memories of my wilderness journeys in Wilpattu National Park. A distraught voice was heard a little after dawn from a close by patch of shrub. This frightened, innocent creature, a gray slender loris, was found almost covered by cobwebs.

Though it howled in agony, we were not able to find out a particular reason. It clinged onto a branch of a shrub and curled up using his spindly limbs and slender body. I still could remember the way it looked adorably with its huge rounded eyes just before vanishing from the scene, leaving this memorably beautiful image to all of us.

All species of lorises are worldwide considered the most evolutionarily distinct. It is our duty to protect this creature who is now in serious danger of extinction due to loss of habitat.

TAGS: Sri Lanka

====== 92 ========

THIS MOLECULE COULD EXPLAIN THE ORIGIN OF LIFE

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 93 ========

YES, YOU CAN GO SANDBOARDING IN THE NAMIB DESERT

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

Now Playing

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 94 ========

THE STARTLING ALTERNATIVE THEORY OF HOW HUMANS ARRIVED IN AMERICA

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 95 ========

YOU WON'T BELIEVE THE SIZE OF BOTSWANA'S SALT FLATS

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 96 ========

HOW EDWARD THE CONFESSOR'S ADVISOR SEIZED POWER

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 97 ========

THIS IS HOW HARD IT IS TO CATCH A 40-LB. DOGTOOTH WITH A REEL

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Now Playing

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 98 ========

WE'RE ALL MADE OF STARDUST. HERE'S HOW.

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 99 ========

WHY SHOULD HUMANS CARE ABOUT BIODIVERSITY LOSS?

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 100 ========

STEPHEN HAWKING CONGRATULATES THE LIGO TEAM ON WINNING THE 2016 AMERICAN INGENUITY AWARD IN PHYSICAL SCIENCES

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 101 ========

WHAT REALLY KILLED OFF THE WOOLLY MAMMOTH?

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 102 ========

THE TYPOS ON THIS DEAD SEA SCROLL DON'T MEAN IT'S FAKE

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 103 ========

TRANSPORTING A LIVE ELEPHANT IS EXACTLY AS DIFFICULT AS YOU WOULD IMAGINE

The team at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy needs to transport Kinani, a blind male elephant, to a 4,000-acre compound where he'll be able to roam freely without disturbing other wildlife. Weighing in at nearly eight tons, it'll take careful maneuvering and custom equipment to bring the animal to his new sanctuary.

Transporting a Live Elephant Is Exactly as Difficult as You Would Imagine (5:14)

====== 104 ========

FASCINATING: HOW TRANSPARENT GLASS FROGS MATE AND RAISE THEIR YOUNG

The team at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy needs to transport Kinani, a blind male elephant, to a 4,000-acre compound where he'll be able to roam freely without disturbing other wildlife. Weighing in at nearly eight tons, it'll take careful maneuvering and custom equipment to bring the animal to his new sanctuary.

Transporting a Live Elephant Is Exactly as Difficult as You Would Imagine (5:14)

====== 105 ========

THERE’S A “SIDEDOOR” ENTRANCE TO THE SMITHSONIAN AND IT’S THROUGH A NEW PODCAST

Most visitors enter the Smithsonian museums by the front door, but the new “Sidedoor” podcasts—which debuted on October 26, with a new episode released every other Wednesday—take enthusiasts on a road less-traveled—behind the scenes into the Institution’s 19 museums, nine research facilities and the National Zoo.

The new podcast series, which can be downloaded as an app or streamed online, aims to grant listeners intimate access to the hidden treasures, artists, historians and research staff, working in the field, in laboratories and otherwise unavailable to the average visitor.

“Sidedoor is a new entrance to all of the cool and awesome stuff going on at the Smithsonian that you may not have explored before,” says Tony Cohn, the host and co-producer of the podcast, which is being produced by a new collaboration between the Office of Communication and External Affairs and the Smithsonian Digital Studio.

Each 20-plus-minute episode features three stories.

All three snack-sized stories, as Cohn calls them, are connected by a common thread. The first episode, “Tech Yourself,” explores how the ascent of the railroad industry pushed America into creating time zones. In another segment, the hosts chat with Ian Cheng, an artist who’s created a video simulation—currently on display at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

The peculiar artwork, entitled Emissary in the Squat of Gods, is a mesmerizing narrative that depicts human-like characters that interact with one another and learn in almost real-time, using data from six artificial intelligence programmers. Cheng says it’s like a video game that plays itself.

Anthropologist Joshua Bell’s on-going three-year project to determine the impact of the cellphone on teenagers is the focus of the third segment. Much is said about how the cellphone is destroying civility or empathy or shortening attention spans, but very little evidence has been collected to support theories about cultural change, says Bell, curator of globalization at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History.

Bell and his collaborators are working with a group of teens at two racially mixed high schools in Washington, D.C., surveying and interviewing them about how they use their phones at school to communicate with each other and their families. In the past the introduction of new technologies—like radio and television—tends to generate a kind of moral panic and the new gadget is often blamed for all manner of societal ills.

Cellphones have also highlighted generational divides, which is another fertile area for exploration, he says. “In some ways, the cellphone becomes a way of studying age-old concerns about kids and parenting,” says Bell.

The project, funded by the National Science Foundation and pending permission from the participants, will allow researchers to observe exactly how teens interact with their phones, says Bell. He and his colleagues—principal investigator Alexander Dent, an associate professor of anthropology at the George Washington University, and Joel Kuipers, a professor of anthropology and international affairs at GWU—are especially interested in what happens when technology fails.

“With most technology, we take it for granted until it stops working,” says Bell.

What happens when a phone breaks and someone can’t answer a text, or the battery dies and a call isn’t answered, or if a text is sent to the wrong person? The reactions will help shed light on whether and how teen culture is changing, he says.

Bell is just one of the many hundreds of scientists working at the Smithsonian whose work is rarely seen by the public.

Cohn wants listeners to hear about projects like Bell’s from the horse’s mouth. “The podcast is the voice of our people,” he says. The podcast medium also gives Cohn and his co-host Megan Detrie the ability to share ambient sounds and audio held in the collections of the archives facilities at the Smithsonian.

In the second episode, listeners get a window in on how the National Zoo found a mate for a young female orangutan named Batang, and then worked for years to solve the complications of bringing a pregnancy to fruition. The keepers discuss the ins and outs of prenatal care for the Great Ape and about the difficulty of training Batang for motherhood.

That episode, dubbed “Special Delivery,” wraps up with an investigation into what it takes to deliver a punch line—as illuminated through Phyllis Diller’s “gag file.” Soon after the now-deceased comedian retired in 2002, she donated a library card catalog to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History. The 48-drawer wooden filing cabinet—Diller referred to it as "her life of one-liners,"—held more than 50,000 index cards, each one embossed with a single typewritten gag line.

Cohn’s excited about an upcoming episode that will highlight a Smithsonian astrophysicist’s smartphone app that assigns music notes to pulsars in a bid to make his field more accessible to the average human. And, he also is looking forward to sharing with listeners a story about Smithsonian researchers who are helping the city of Irbil in Iraq to preserve antiquities that are under threat by terrorists.

The podcast is available through iTunes, Google Play, and can be streamed at the Sidedoor homepage.

====== 106 ========

JAPAN'S SURRENDER IN WWII USHERED IN A NEW WORLD ORDER

Now Playing

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 107 ========

HERE'S WHAT IT TAKES TO BECOME A CERTIFIED C2-A PILOT

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

Now Playing

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 108 ========

TEAM OF EXPLORERS UNCOVER FAMOUS SUNKEN SHIP

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Now Playing

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 109 ========

A SMITHSONIAN SPORTS CURATOR EXPLAINS HOW ATHLETES TURN SOCIAL AND POLITICAL ISSUES INTO NATIONAL CONVERSATIONS

Now Playing

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 110 ========

JOSE GOMEZ-MARQUEZ WANTS TO TURN EVERY DOCTOR AND NURSE INTO A MAKER

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Now Playing

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 111 ========

RESTAURATEUR JOSÉ ANDRÉS DREAMS OF MILKING THE CLOUDS

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

Now Playing

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 112 ========

THE KEY MARCO CAT RETURNS TO MARCO ISLAND

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 113 ========

THIS FAMOUS SINGER DITCHED L.A. FOR A FIVE-YEAR RETREAT

The Marco Island Historical Society (MIHS) will be exhibiting the Key Marco Cat and other rare Pre-Columbian Native American artifacts starting in January 2019 at the Marco Island Historical Museum. This will be the first time in more than 100 years that these artifacts will be together on Marco Island since their discovery.

The Key Marco Cat Returns to Marco Island (0:14)

Now Playing

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Famous Singer Ditched L.A. for a Five-Year Retreat (1:33)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

In Zambia, the 'Smoke That Thunders' is the name given to a gaping ravine filled with a stunning waterfall. We know it better as Victoria Falls, considered one of the seven natural wonders of the world.

Stunning Aerial Footage of Victoria Falls (1:23)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

The Wolfberg Arch, located in the Cederberg mountain area in Western Cape, South Africa, is an awe-inspiring 160-foot-long sandstone formation with a 40-foot-high archway.

Spectacular Sights of Wolfberg Arch Up-Close (1:02)

Abalone, a large sea snail native to the Western Cape, is a popular local delicacy. To meet demand, the seafood industry created abalone farms which gross $50 million annually.

Inside South Africa's Multi-Million Dollar Seafood Industry (1:51)

====== 114 ========

WHY LOS ANGELES IS ONE OF THE BEST PLACES TO FILM

The Marco Island Historical Society (MIHS) will be exhibiting the Key Marco Cat and other rare Pre-Columbian Native American artifacts starting in January 2019 at the Marco Island Historical Museum. This will be the first time in more than 100 years that these artifacts will be together on Marco Island since their discovery.

The Key Marco Cat Returns to Marco Island (0:14)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Famous Singer Ditched L.A. for a Five-Year Retreat (1:33)

Now Playing

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

In Zambia, the 'Smoke That Thunders' is the name given to a gaping ravine filled with a stunning waterfall. We know it better as Victoria Falls, considered one of the seven natural wonders of the world.

Stunning Aerial Footage of Victoria Falls (1:23)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

The Wolfberg Arch, located in the Cederberg mountain area in Western Cape, South Africa, is an awe-inspiring 160-foot-long sandstone formation with a 40-foot-high archway.

Spectacular Sights of Wolfberg Arch Up-Close (1:02)

Abalone, a large sea snail native to the Western Cape, is a popular local delicacy. To meet demand, the seafood industry created abalone farms which gross $50 million annually.

Inside South Africa's Multi-Million Dollar Seafood Industry (1:51)

====== 115 ========

WHY LOS ANGELES IS ONE OF THE BEST PLACES TO FILM

The Marco Island Historical Society (MIHS) will be exhibiting the Key Marco Cat and other rare Pre-Columbian Native American artifacts starting in January 2019 at the Marco Island Historical Museum. This will be the first time in more than 100 years that these artifacts will be together on Marco Island since their discovery.

The Key Marco Cat Returns to Marco Island (0:14)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Famous Singer Ditched L.A. for a Five-Year Retreat (1:33)

Now Playing

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

In Zambia, the 'Smoke That Thunders' is the name given to a gaping ravine filled with a stunning waterfall. We know it better as Victoria Falls, considered one of the seven natural wonders of the world.

Stunning Aerial Footage of Victoria Falls (1:23)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

The Wolfberg Arch, located in the Cederberg mountain area in Western Cape, South Africa, is an awe-inspiring 160-foot-long sandstone formation with a 40-foot-high archway.

Spectacular Sights of Wolfberg Arch Up-Close (1:02)

Abalone, a large sea snail native to the Western Cape, is a popular local delicacy. To meet demand, the seafood industry created abalone farms which gross $50 million annually.

Inside South Africa's Multi-Million Dollar Seafood Industry (1:51)

====== 116 ========

HOW MEGHAN MARKLE WENT FROM ACTRESS TO BRITISH NOBILITY

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 117 ========

SPACE NEEDLE WAS DESIGNED TO LOOK VERY DIFFERENT

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

Why Los Angeles Is One of the Best Places to Film (1:20)

Meghan Markle was an up-and-coming actress when she met and fell in love with Britain's Prince Harry. Now, she must contend with probably the most challenging role of her life: be a member of the British Royal Family.

How Meghan Markle Went From Actress to British Nobility (2:30)

Now Playing

While it's hard to imagine Seattle's Space Needle looking any other way, few people know that the iconic 'flying saucer' design wasn't the original choice.

Space Needle Was Designed to Look Very Different (2:16)

While Seattle is surrounded by dramatic peaks on all sides, the relatively small Mount Si sticks out as a key location in the iconic TV series, Twin Peaks, which was filmed in the area.

Here's Why Mount Si Stands Out in TV History (2:26)

Fisherman Andy Coetzee is holding onto his fishing line for dear life, as a monstrous tug threatens to drag him into the ocean. From the size and strength of his catch, he's certain it's a giant dogtooth.

This Is How Hard It Is to Catch a 40-lb. Dogtooth With a Reel (3:34)

Chicago has always been a hotbed of musical talent: whether it be Muddy Waters who moved there in 1943, or Kanye West who spent his childhood years in the Windy City.

Which Famous Music Icons Lived in These Chicago Homes? (1:34)

The Namibian town of Swakopmund is a top tourist draw for desert lovers. Popular activities include quad-biking and sandboarding down its massive, steep dunes.

Yes, You Can Go Sandboarding in the Namib Desert (1:21)

During the 17th century, the Agooji were a battle-hardened, all-female warrior force that held a special place within the African kingdom of Dahomey. Most were former slaves, with only the bravest and toughest admitted into the fold.

How African Female Ex-Slaves Became Agooji Warriors (2:35)

When France sent ambassador Jean-Marie Bayol to Dahomey to secure a deal for the kingdom's rich natural resources, he was greeted by an elite force of all-women warriors known as the Agooji. Their ferocity set the tone for negotiations.

====== 118 ========

JAPAN'S SURRENDER IN WWII USHERED IN A NEW WORLD ORDER

Now Playing

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 119 ========

HERE'S WHAT IT TAKES TO BECOME A CERTIFIED C2-A PILOT

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

Now Playing

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 120 ========

TEAM OF EXPLORERS UNCOVER FAMOUS SUNKEN SHIP

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Now Playing

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 121 ========

HOSTILE LIONESS WITHHOLDS FOOD FROM HUNGRY ORPHANED CUBS

Now Playing

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 122 ========

WHY DEPTH CHARGES DON'T HAVE TO TOUCH A SUBMARINE TO SINK IT

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 123 ========

FIVE YOUNG LION BROTHERS MATE WITH ONE LIONESS

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

Now Playing

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 124 ========

ASK SMITHSONIAN: HOW LONG CAN A PERSON HOLD THEIR BREATH?

Now Playing

Gasp! The answer will amaze you.

Ask Smithsonian: How Long Can a Person Hold Their Breath? (1:32)

The science of earwax in under a minute

Ask Smithsonian: What's the Point of Earwax? (1:05)

Mans best friend is also one of his oldest.

Ask Smithsonian: When Did People Start Keeping Pets? (1:05)

Seeing the world through different eyes

Ask Smithsonian: What Does the World Look Like When You’re Color Blind? (1:35)

Host Eric Schulze digs into the science behind these depressions.

Ask Smithsonian: What’s a Dimple? (1:09)

Our host, Eric Schulze, explains how science is tackling this puzzling question from space.

Ask Smithsonian: Can Animals Predict Earthquakes and Other Natural Disasters? (1:27)

Host Eric Schulze opens the floodgates of knowledge to reveal the answer.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Does My Nose Run When It’s Cold Outside? (1:01)

Is a kiss really just a kiss? In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, explains why we pucker up.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Do We Kiss? (1:11)

In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, weighs in on whether or not elephants can jump.

====== 125 ========

ASK SMITHSONIAN: WHAT'S THE POINT OF EARWAX?

Gasp! The answer will amaze you.

Ask Smithsonian: How Long Can a Person Hold Their Breath? (1:32)

Now Playing

The science of earwax in under a minute

Ask Smithsonian: What's the Point of Earwax? (1:05)

Mans best friend is also one of his oldest.

Ask Smithsonian: When Did People Start Keeping Pets? (1:05)

Seeing the world through different eyes

Ask Smithsonian: What Does the World Look Like When You’re Color Blind? (1:35)

Host Eric Schulze digs into the science behind these depressions.

Ask Smithsonian: What’s a Dimple? (1:09)

Our host, Eric Schulze, explains how science is tackling this puzzling question from space.

Ask Smithsonian: Can Animals Predict Earthquakes and Other Natural Disasters? (1:27)

Host Eric Schulze opens the floodgates of knowledge to reveal the answer.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Does My Nose Run When It’s Cold Outside? (1:01)

Is a kiss really just a kiss? In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, explains why we pucker up.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Do We Kiss? (1:11)

In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, weighs in on whether or not elephants can jump.

====== 126 ========

ASK SMITHSONIAN: WHEN DID PEOPLE START KEEPING PETS?

Gasp! The answer will amaze you.

Ask Smithsonian: How Long Can a Person Hold Their Breath? (1:32)

The science of earwax in under a minute

Ask Smithsonian: What's the Point of Earwax? (1:05)

Now Playing

Mans best friend is also one of his oldest.

Ask Smithsonian: When Did People Start Keeping Pets? (1:05)

Seeing the world through different eyes

Ask Smithsonian: What Does the World Look Like When You’re Color Blind? (1:35)

Host Eric Schulze digs into the science behind these depressions.

Ask Smithsonian: What’s a Dimple? (1:09)

Our host, Eric Schulze, explains how science is tackling this puzzling question from space.

Ask Smithsonian: Can Animals Predict Earthquakes and Other Natural Disasters? (1:27)

Host Eric Schulze opens the floodgates of knowledge to reveal the answer.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Does My Nose Run When It’s Cold Outside? (1:01)

Is a kiss really just a kiss? In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, explains why we pucker up.

Ask Smithsonian: Why Do We Kiss? (1:11)

In this one-minute video, our Ask Smithsonian Host, Eric Schulze, weighs in on whether or not elephants can jump.

====== 127 ========

LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA'S SHOUT OUT TO DAVE MALLOY AND RACHEL CHAVKIN

The team at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy needs to transport Kinani, a blind male elephant, to a 4,000-acre compound where he'll be able to roam freely without disturbing other wildlife. Weighing in at nearly eight tons, it'll take careful maneuvering and custom equipment to bring the animal to his new sanctuary.

Transporting a Live Elephant Is Exactly as Difficult as You Would Imagine (5:14)

====== 128 ========

WHAT MAKES JOHN LEGEND AMERICA'S MOST VERSATILE ARTIST

The team at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy needs to transport Kinani, a blind male elephant, to a 4,000-acre compound where he'll be able to roam freely without disturbing other wildlife. Weighing in at nearly eight tons, it'll take careful maneuvering and custom equipment to bring the animal to his new sanctuary.

Transporting a Live Elephant Is Exactly as Difficult as You Would Imagine (5:14)

====== 129 ========

DO NOT PUBLISH FUTURE IS HERE FESTIVAL 2015: MARC GOODMAN, CHAIR FOR POLICY AND LAW AT SINGULARITY UNIVERSITY

Now Playing

Marc Goodman has spent a career in law enforcement and technology. He has served as a street police officer, senior adviser to Interpol and futurist-in-residence with the FBI. As the founder of the Future Crimes Institute and the Chair for Policy, Law, and Ethics at Silicon Valleys Singularity University, he continues to investigate the intriguing and often terrifying intersection of science and security, uncovering nascent threats and combating the darker sides of technology

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Marc Goodman, Chair for Policy and Law at Singularity University (17:19)

Greg Henderson is the founder, CEO and chief visionary for Arx Pax. Greg began his career in the military as an Airborne Ranger, serving with the 101st Airborne and 7th Infantry. He graduated from West Point with a B.S in Engineering, and received a Master of Architecture degree from Berkeley. That said, what Greg succinctly envisioned with Arx Pax was a new way to employ an unexploited technology in applications that others did not see. He labeled this epiphany: Magnetic Field Architecture (MFA). Its a big dream on a one-of-a-kind technology that will change the way the world works, plays, builds and lives. All of us here at Arx Pax (and HENDO) passionately believe in its possibility, its potentialand its promise. Which is why the team Greg and Jill have assembled at Arx Pax matters so much

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Greg Henderson, Hendo Hoverboard Co-Founder (11:03)

Matt Walker is Professor of Neuroscience and Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Director of the Sleep and Neuroimaging Laboratory. His research examines the impact of sleep on human brain function in healthy and clinical populations. Walker is the recipient of numerous funding awards from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health, and a Kavli Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences. To date, he has published over eighty research studies describing the critical importance of sleep for learning, memory, creativity, emotional regulation and cardiovascular health

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Matt Walker, Professor of Psychology at UC Berkeley (14:04)

Thomas R. Insel, M.D., Director, National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), the component of the National Institutes of Health committed to research on mental disorders. Dr. Insel has served as Director of this $1.5B agency since 2002. During his tenure, Dr. Insel has focused on genetics and neurobiology of mental disorders as well as transforming approachesto diagnosis and treatment. Prior to serving as NIMH Director, Dr. Insel was Professor of Psychiatry at Emery University where he was founding director of the Center for Behavioral Neuroscience and director of the Yerkes Regional Primate Center in Atlanta. Dr. Insels research has examined the neural basis of complex social behaviors, including maternal care and attachment. A member of the Institute of Medicine, he has received numerous national and international awards and served in several leadership roles at NIH

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Thomas Insel, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) (9:54)

J. Craig Venter, Ph.D., is regarded as one of the leading scientists of the 21st century for his numerous invaluable contributions to genomic research. He is founder, chairman, and CEO of the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI), a not-for-profit, research organization with approximately 250 scientists and staff dedicated to human, microbial, plant, synthetic and environmental genomic research, and the exploration of social and ethical issues in genomics.Dr. Venter is co-founder, executive chairman and co-chief scientist of Synthetic Genomics Inc (SGI), a privately held company focused on developing products and solutions using synthetic genomics technologies.Dr. Venter is also a co-founder, executive chairman and CEO of Human Longevity Inc (HLI), a San Diego-based genomics and cell therapy-based diagnostic and therapeutic company focused on extending the healthy, high performance human life span

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Craig Venter, CEO, J. Craig Venter Institute (15:26)

Kevin led pioneering work on RFID (radio frequency identification) networks, for which he coined the term the Internet of Things, and co-founded the Auto-ID Center at MIT. His writing about innovation and technology has appeared in Quartz, Medium, The Atlantic, and the New York Times.Kevin has a long history as a tech innovator and as an entrepreneur. His new book, "How To Fly A Horse: The Secret History of Creation," Invention, and Discovery is an inspiring and empowering look at behind the scenes of humanitys greatest creations, revealing the surprising way we make something new

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Kevin Ashton, Inventor of "the Internet of Things" (14:51)

Nicole Austin is a Master Blender, Engineer and Distiller in the growing US craft spirits industry, the newly elected President of the New York State Distillers Guild, and is a seasoned imbiber of spirits.

Aqua Vitae or Hooch? The Secrets of Great Whiskey (19:39)

Molly Wright Steenson is an Assistant Professor in the School of Journalism & MassCommunication at UW-Madison. Pneumatic tubes have made her Internet famous.

Pneumatic Tube Systems, Particularly in Paris: It Really Is a System of Tubes (20:47)

Derek Demeter has been Planetarium Director at Seminole State College of Florida since 2007. He writes and produces new shows that explore the astronomy and history of numerous cultures from around the world. He serves as Vice President of the Central Florida Astronomical Society, and sets up telescopes at local shopping centers to give the public a truly out-of-this world experience.

====== 130 ========

DO NOT PUBLISH FUTURE IS HERE FESTIVAL 2015: GREG HENDERSON, HENDO HOVERBOARD CO-FOUNDER

Marc Goodman has spent a career in law enforcement and technology. He has served as a street police officer, senior adviser to Interpol and futurist-in-residence with the FBI. As the founder of the Future Crimes Institute and the Chair for Policy, Law, and Ethics at Silicon Valleys Singularity University, he continues to investigate the intriguing and often terrifying intersection of science and security, uncovering nascent threats and combating the darker sides of technology

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Marc Goodman, Chair for Policy and Law at Singularity University (17:19)

Now Playing

Greg Henderson is the founder, CEO and chief visionary for Arx Pax. Greg began his career in the military as an Airborne Ranger, serving with the 101st Airborne and 7th Infantry. He graduated from West Point with a B.S in Engineering, and received a Master of Architecture degree from Berkeley. That said, what Greg succinctly envisioned with Arx Pax was a new way to employ an unexploited technology in applications that others did not see. He labeled this epiphany: Magnetic Field Architecture (MFA). Its a big dream on a one-of-a-kind technology that will change the way the world works, plays, builds and lives. All of us here at Arx Pax (and HENDO) passionately believe in its possibility, its potentialand its promise. Which is why the team Greg and Jill have assembled at Arx Pax matters so much

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Greg Henderson, Hendo Hoverboard Co-Founder (11:03)

Matt Walker is Professor of Neuroscience and Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Director of the Sleep and Neuroimaging Laboratory. His research examines the impact of sleep on human brain function in healthy and clinical populations. Walker is the recipient of numerous funding awards from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health, and a Kavli Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences. To date, he has published over eighty research studies describing the critical importance of sleep for learning, memory, creativity, emotional regulation and cardiovascular health

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Matt Walker, Professor of Psychology at UC Berkeley (14:04)

Thomas R. Insel, M.D., Director, National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), the component of the National Institutes of Health committed to research on mental disorders. Dr. Insel has served as Director of this $1.5B agency since 2002. During his tenure, Dr. Insel has focused on genetics and neurobiology of mental disorders as well as transforming approachesto diagnosis and treatment. Prior to serving as NIMH Director, Dr. Insel was Professor of Psychiatry at Emery University where he was founding director of the Center for Behavioral Neuroscience and director of the Yerkes Regional Primate Center in Atlanta. Dr. Insels research has examined the neural basis of complex social behaviors, including maternal care and attachment. A member of the Institute of Medicine, he has received numerous national and international awards and served in several leadership roles at NIH

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Thomas Insel, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) (9:54)

J. Craig Venter, Ph.D., is regarded as one of the leading scientists of the 21st century for his numerous invaluable contributions to genomic research. He is founder, chairman, and CEO of the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI), a not-for-profit, research organization with approximately 250 scientists and staff dedicated to human, microbial, plant, synthetic and environmental genomic research, and the exploration of social and ethical issues in genomics.Dr. Venter is co-founder, executive chairman and co-chief scientist of Synthetic Genomics Inc (SGI), a privately held company focused on developing products and solutions using synthetic genomics technologies.Dr. Venter is also a co-founder, executive chairman and CEO of Human Longevity Inc (HLI), a San Diego-based genomics and cell therapy-based diagnostic and therapeutic company focused on extending the healthy, high performance human life span

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Craig Venter, CEO, J. Craig Venter Institute (15:26)

Kevin led pioneering work on RFID (radio frequency identification) networks, for which he coined the term the Internet of Things, and co-founded the Auto-ID Center at MIT. His writing about innovation and technology has appeared in Quartz, Medium, The Atlantic, and the New York Times.Kevin has a long history as a tech innovator and as an entrepreneur. His new book, "How To Fly A Horse: The Secret History of Creation," Invention, and Discovery is an inspiring and empowering look at behind the scenes of humanitys greatest creations, revealing the surprising way we make something new

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Kevin Ashton, Inventor of "the Internet of Things" (14:51)

Nicole Austin is a Master Blender, Engineer and Distiller in the growing US craft spirits industry, the newly elected President of the New York State Distillers Guild, and is a seasoned imbiber of spirits.

Aqua Vitae or Hooch? The Secrets of Great Whiskey (19:39)

Molly Wright Steenson is an Assistant Professor in the School of Journalism & MassCommunication at UW-Madison. Pneumatic tubes have made her Internet famous.

Pneumatic Tube Systems, Particularly in Paris: It Really Is a System of Tubes (20:47)

Derek Demeter has been Planetarium Director at Seminole State College of Florida since 2007. He writes and produces new shows that explore the astronomy and history of numerous cultures from around the world. He serves as Vice President of the Central Florida Astronomical Society, and sets up telescopes at local shopping centers to give the public a truly out-of-this world experience.

====== 131 ========

DO NOT PUBLISH FUTURE IS HERE FESTIVAL 2015: DR. MATT WALKER, PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY AT UC BERKELEY

Marc Goodman has spent a career in law enforcement and technology. He has served as a street police officer, senior adviser to Interpol and futurist-in-residence with the FBI. As the founder of the Future Crimes Institute and the Chair for Policy, Law, and Ethics at Silicon Valleys Singularity University, he continues to investigate the intriguing and often terrifying intersection of science and security, uncovering nascent threats and combating the darker sides of technology

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Marc Goodman, Chair for Policy and Law at Singularity University (17:19)

Greg Henderson is the founder, CEO and chief visionary for Arx Pax. Greg began his career in the military as an Airborne Ranger, serving with the 101st Airborne and 7th Infantry. He graduated from West Point with a B.S in Engineering, and received a Master of Architecture degree from Berkeley. That said, what Greg succinctly envisioned with Arx Pax was a new way to employ an unexploited technology in applications that others did not see. He labeled this epiphany: Magnetic Field Architecture (MFA). Its a big dream on a one-of-a-kind technology that will change the way the world works, plays, builds and lives. All of us here at Arx Pax (and HENDO) passionately believe in its possibility, its potentialand its promise. Which is why the team Greg and Jill have assembled at Arx Pax matters so much

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Greg Henderson, Hendo Hoverboard Co-Founder (11:03)

Now Playing

Matt Walker is Professor of Neuroscience and Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Director of the Sleep and Neuroimaging Laboratory. His research examines the impact of sleep on human brain function in healthy and clinical populations. Walker is the recipient of numerous funding awards from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health, and a Kavli Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences. To date, he has published over eighty research studies describing the critical importance of sleep for learning, memory, creativity, emotional regulation and cardiovascular health

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Matt Walker, Professor of Psychology at UC Berkeley (14:04)

Thomas R. Insel, M.D., Director, National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), the component of the National Institutes of Health committed to research on mental disorders. Dr. Insel has served as Director of this $1.5B agency since 2002. During his tenure, Dr. Insel has focused on genetics and neurobiology of mental disorders as well as transforming approachesto diagnosis and treatment. Prior to serving as NIMH Director, Dr. Insel was Professor of Psychiatry at Emery University where he was founding director of the Center for Behavioral Neuroscience and director of the Yerkes Regional Primate Center in Atlanta. Dr. Insels research has examined the neural basis of complex social behaviors, including maternal care and attachment. A member of the Institute of Medicine, he has received numerous national and international awards and served in several leadership roles at NIH

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Dr. Thomas Insel, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) (9:54)

J. Craig Venter, Ph.D., is regarded as one of the leading scientists of the 21st century for his numerous invaluable contributions to genomic research. He is founder, chairman, and CEO of the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI), a not-for-profit, research organization with approximately 250 scientists and staff dedicated to human, microbial, plant, synthetic and environmental genomic research, and the exploration of social and ethical issues in genomics.Dr. Venter is co-founder, executive chairman and co-chief scientist of Synthetic Genomics Inc (SGI), a privately held company focused on developing products and solutions using synthetic genomics technologies.Dr. Venter is also a co-founder, executive chairman and CEO of Human Longevity Inc (HLI), a San Diego-based genomics and cell therapy-based diagnostic and therapeutic company focused on extending the healthy, high performance human life span

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Craig Venter, CEO, J. Craig Venter Institute (15:26)

Kevin led pioneering work on RFID (radio frequency identification) networks, for which he coined the term the Internet of Things, and co-founded the Auto-ID Center at MIT. His writing about innovation and technology has appeared in Quartz, Medium, The Atlantic, and the New York Times.Kevin has a long history as a tech innovator and as an entrepreneur. His new book, "How To Fly A Horse: The Secret History of Creation," Invention, and Discovery is an inspiring and empowering look at behind the scenes of humanitys greatest creations, revealing the surprising way we make something new

DO NOT PUBLISH Future Is Here Festival 2015: Kevin Ashton, Inventor of "the Internet of Things" (14:51)

Nicole Austin is a Master Blender, Engineer and Distiller in the growing US craft spirits industry, the newly elected President of the New York State Distillers Guild, and is a seasoned imbiber of spirits.

Aqua Vitae or Hooch? The Secrets of Great Whiskey (19:39)

Molly Wright Steenson is an Assistant Professor in the School of Journalism & MassCommunication at UW-Madison. Pneumatic tubes have made her Internet famous.

Pneumatic Tube Systems, Particularly in Paris: It Really Is a System of Tubes (20:47)

Derek Demeter has been Planetarium Director at Seminole State College of Florida since 2007. He writes and produces new shows that explore the astronomy and history of numerous cultures from around the world. He serves as Vice President of the Central Florida Astronomical Society, and sets up telescopes at local shopping centers to give the public a truly out-of-this world experience.

====== 132 ========

A MONGOOSE AND BLACK MAMBA FIGHT TO DEATH

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 133 ========

UNLOCKING THE SPEAR OF DESTINY'S TRUE POWER

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 134 ========

COULD YOU HAVE ENDURED CONSUELO VANDERBILT'S UPBRINGING?

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 135 ========

TRANSPORTING A LIVE ELEPHANT IS EXACTLY AS DIFFICULT AS YOU WOULD IMAGINE

The tragic true story of an innocent man suspected of murder is a classic motif of the Hollywood thriller and is used as a subplot in Scream.

Killers Don't Always Look the Part (2:50)

====== 136 ========

FASCINATING: HOW TRANSPARENT GLASS FROGS MATE AND RAISE THEIR YOUNG

The tragic true story of an innocent man suspected of murder is a classic motif of the Hollywood thriller and is used as a subplot in Scream.

Killers Don't Always Look the Part (2:50)

====== 137 ========

ONE OF THE STRANGEST, STEALTHIEST TURTLES YOU'VE EVER SEEN

The tragic true story of an innocent man suspected of murder is a classic motif of the Hollywood thriller and is used as a subplot in Scream.

Killers Don't Always Look the Part (2:50)

====== 138 ========

SAVING A NEST OF BABY RABBITS MAULED BY A DOG

The tragic true story of an innocent man suspected of murder is a classic motif of the Hollywood thriller and is used as a subplot in Scream.

Killers Don't Always Look the Part (2:50)

====== 139 ========

SCIENTISTS DISCOVER “SUPER-COLONY” OF 1.5 MILLION ADÉLIE PENGUINS IN IMAGES FROM SPACE

Captured in satellite images, the white stretches of penguin poop stood in stark contrast to the brown rocky surface of Danger islands, a remote archipelago located off the northernmost tip of the Antarctic peninsula. It's not commonly thought to be a popular penguin spot, but the poop was a telltale sign that the black and white birds waddled nearby.

Even so, as Jonathan Amos and Victoria Gill report for BBC News, when scientists ventured out, what they found surprised them: Around 1.5 million Adélie penguins were thriving in these far flung nesting grounds, grouped in some of the largest known colonies of the birds in the world.

A team of scientists led by ecologist Heather Lynch of Stony Brook University in New York first spotted signs of penguin activity in 2014 when using an algorithm to search through images from the Landsat satellite, a craft jointly managed by the USGS and NASA. Though Landsat does not offer particularly clear images, the researchers were surprised when they saw such a large area spotted with penguin poop, Robert Lee Hotz reports for The Wall Street Journal. A year later, another team visited the location and discovered a far larger population of Adélie penguins than they had ever imaged.

Researchers counted penguins by hand but also used drone imagery to scan large portions of the island. They counted 751,527 pairs of Adélie penguins, as detailed Friday in the journal Scientific Reports.

Tom Hart from Oxford University, who was part of the team investigating the penguin populations, tells the BBC: "It's a classic case of finding something where no-one really looked! The Danger Islands are hard to reach, so people didn't really try that hard.”

This new discovery comes in sharp contrast to the current state of other species of penguins in the Antarctic. Earlier this week, a report suggested that the king penguin population, which can breed on just a few islands in Antarctica, could suffer up to a 70 percent decline by 2100 if they don’t find a new home.

Until now, researchers thought the Adélie penguin was suffering a similar fate as a result of climate change. As the BBC reports, Adélie penguin populations on other parts of Antarctica are in decline, especially on the western side of the continent. A 2016 report even suggested that Adélie colonies could decline by up to 60 percent by the end of the century. Scientists have linked the plunging numbers to a reduction in sea ice and warming sea temperatures, which have severely impacted krill populations, the penguin’s main source of food.

But the new report shows a different story. As Lynch tells Hotz that the Adélie penguins population has been stable on the Danger Islands since the 1950s, as evidenced by aerial photos of the region from 1957.

According to Hotz, the populations is likely protected by a thick section of sea ice that isolates the islands and prevents fishing fleets from depleting the penguin's food sources. But that's just one reason for the surprising health of the super colony—researchers aren’t exactly sure why they've been spared the struggles of other populations, Brandon Specktor writes for Live Science.

As Specktor reports, the international Commission for the Conservation of the Antarctic Marine Living Resources is considering a proposal to recognize the Danger Islands as a marine protected area, or MPA, where human activity is limited for conservation purposes.

This new study provides evidence that conservation efforts are needed, Rod Downie, head of polar programs at conservation organization World Wildlife Fund, tells The Independent’s Josh Gabbatiss.

“This exciting discovery shows us just how much more there still is to learn about this amazing and iconic species of the ice,” Downie says. “But it also reinforces the urgency to protect the waters off the coast of Antarctica to safeguard Adélie penguins from the dual threats of overfishing and climate change.”

Scientists now believe more than 4.5 million breeding pairs of Adélie penguin population exist in Antarctica today, about 1.5 million more than they estimated 20 years ago.

Editor's Note March 5, 2018: The headline of this article has been changed to clarify that the penguins were identified in images taken in space.

====== 140 ========

A JAMESTOWN SKELETON IS UNEARTHED, BUT ONLY TIME—AND SCIENCE—WILL REVEAL HIS TRUE IDENTITY

Dead men tell no tales—but a skeleton in a church gravesite has given Jamestown Rediscovery archaeologists quite the story.

Related Content New Jamestown Discovery Reveals the Identities of Four Prominent Settlers

This week, Rediscovery scientists uncovered new evidence, including a skull and teeth, of a skeleton that may belong to Sir George Yeardley in the remains of a church in Jamestown, Virginia. Yeardley, the colonial governor who presided over the first representative assembly in the Western hemisphere, was also one of America’s first slaveholders.

This assembly, which took place in 1619, was a momentous first step in ushering in a new age of colonial rule, though it would be decades before modern democracy would be established in the region. Still, many scholars hail Yeardley for his role in championing the participation of citizens in their own government. Yeardley died at Jamestown in 1627 at the age of 39, and was likely honored with a grand commemoration at the time of his passing.

Since 1994, scientists have been excavating Jamestown, the site of the first permanent English settlement in North America, where three ships first docked in April of 1607. A project originally pioneered by archaeologist Bill Kelso, Jamestown Rediscovery has already unearthed two million artifacts, painting an increasingly intricate portrait of this cornerstone of American history—but the discovery of this early American may be their most groundbreaking yet.

According to David Givens, director of archaeology at Jamestown Rediscovery, Yeardley’s identity is far from definitive and confirmation awaits further analyses, including DNA sequencing. "We believe this person to be Sir George Yeardley, “ says Givens. “Now we’re going to let science tell us if we’re right or wrong."

The skeleton in question appears to be of the right age, and is largely intact, enabling estimates of several of the body’s original features. Additionally, the specimen was unearthed from a grave positioned in a place reserved for only those of high status: in the central aisle, intersecting with what colonists referred to as the “quire” (choir) of what was once the town’s second church, a wooden structure erected in 1617. Additionally, a large tombstone commemorating a knighthood—another mark of prestige bequeathed on Yeardley—once occupied the same church that now bears Yeardley’s supposed remains, and was believed to have sealed his grave. The grave appears to be aligned with the church’s foundations and is devoid of any deconstruction rubble, tentatively indicating that it was dug before the church was dismantled in 1639, 12 years after Yeardley’s death.

Notably, this is the first time that high-frequency ground-penetrating radar has been used in the identification of archaeological skeletal remains. The technique pulses radar deep into the soil and sends back signals of remains beneath the surface, enabling researchers to visualize the evidence without disturbing the artifacts. Such a precaution not only gives a complete picture of a pristinely preserved specimen, but also informs the excavation strategy.

“When we’re digging an archaeological site, we’re going in blind,” explains Peter Leach, an archaeologist at Geophysical Survey Systems, Inc. who collaborated on the project. “Excavation is destructive. . . so being able to look through the soil is powerful.”

Typically, only lower-frequency pulses have been used at previous sites, as these tend to penetrate deeper into the earth. However, the further down the signals go, the poorer the resolution is. High-frequency versions, which have, up until this point, been used almost exclusively to detect rebar and wiring in slabs of concrete during deconstruction and remodeling, were considered impractical for archeological purposes: they had the precision, but not the depth.

But Leach was willing to take that gamble. In the hunt for a gravesite, shallow treasure was a given—and the perfect opportunity to see if high-frequency ground-penetrating radar could visualize bones. Leach encouraged Givens to stop digging just above the lid of a coffin, then give Leach a call.

And hit pay dirt they did.

“The radar was so detailed that when we dug [the skeleton] up, it was like, ‘That’s exactly what we were seeing,” says Givens.

Excavation revealed well-preserved arms, legs and ribs, and even a large number of teeth. For a while, the head was MIA—but then the scientists remembered an orphan skull that had been mysteriously unearthed from a nearby grave the previous year. Perhaps it belonged to their mystery man, and had simply been dislodged by a second burial. They’d be able to potentially confirm a match with DNA analysis—but in the meantime, there was a faster, albeit messier way to tell: they had a jaw bone and a handful of loose teeth—did the keys fit the lock?

They did. This confirmation was—literally—the crowning jewel on their find. They had a head—one that could be scanned to generate a 3D reconstruction of the body’s original face. But the vast majority of the work is yet to come: archaeology is arduous and delicate, far more than a group of researchers playing around in dirt.

“We’re trying to reconstruct a jigsaw puzzle, but sometimes someone comes in and kicks the table,” says Leach.

Doug Owsley, lead forensic anthropologist at Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History, will head the analysis of the skeletal remains back in Washington, D.C. Since 1996, Owsley has been “reading” human remains at Jamestown—over half of his 40-year career in physical anthropology. “We’re studying this whole process of becoming American through a record written in the bones,” he says.

For him, the excavation goes far beyond what first meets the eye: Owsley notes that each skeleton emerges with a personal history that dictates sex, age, health, lifestyle, ancestry and more. The teeth alone are a wellspring of information: cavities betray grain or sugar consumption, while abscesses shed light on painful illnesses.

Advances in chemical testing will also enable the researchers to learn the skeleton’s diet and travel history. Radiocarbon dating, for instance, can approximately bracket when the body was buried. The bones in our bodies have different regenerative capacities: teeth, for instance, stop growing in early childhood, and make a good snapshot of what you were eating and drinking in youth. Femurs, on the other hand, might reveal the last ten or 15 years of growth; ribs, the last two to five. And so, by pulling samples from all over this skeleton’s body, archaeologists can reconstruct an incredibly accurate life history.

Nitrogen in the bones, for instance, could reveal how much meat was in this man’s diet, which might hint at his social status (Yeardley, while not born noble, quickly rose to prominence in Jamestown). Similarly, different species of oxygen molecules can be matched to country-specific rainwater. If the bones are Yeardley’s, one might expect a layering of oxygen flavors: one for his early years in England, overlaid by a stripe indicative of the Americas. Finally, different types of carbon molecules exist in plants native to either England or the Americas: Corn, a true American classic, would not be expected to appear in the teeth—which preserve only our earliest eating habits—of a native Englishman, but would rear its head in the legs and ribs if he traveled to America.

But the lynchpin of this investigation is perhaps the most elusive puzzle piece of all. Over the next six to eight months, geneticist and archaeologist Turi King of the University of Leicester will do some excavating of her own—but this time, entirely above ground. Her laboratory has already played an instrumental role in identifying the remains of Richard III, and many of the same techniques will be deployed anew in the search for Yeardley.

To confirm his identity, King will need to carefully extract DNA from bits of bone, which involves crushing samples to liberate the necessary molecules. She’ll then compare the fragments she isolates to DNA from known living descendants of Yeardley—but not just any relative will do. King is searching for mitochondrial DNA or Y chromosomes in all-female or all-male lineages, respectively, from Yeardley’s line. These genetic traits are passed through only one sex or the other, putting tough constraints on her search. And while sampling DNA from a living person in modern times has become a breeze, “ancient DNA is a different kettle of fish,” King says. “It tends to be very damaged.” And as her team works, King must take every precaution against contaminating the 400-year-old skeleton’s DNA—a costly mistake that could be as simple as breathing on or brushing up against the samples.

The team hopes to have definitive findings by mid-2019, when they will be profiled by the Smithsonian Channel as a part of its series “American Hidden Stories.” Next year also marks the 400th anniversary of Yeardley’s two legacies as an assembly leader and as a slaveholder. The clash of these two hallmarks of American history further illuminate a period of immense sociopolitical turmoil: in its early years, Jamestown survived several sieges by the region’s natives, an abandonment by leadership, and famines that drove its residents to occasional cannibalism.

Jamestown Rediscovery weds a team of dizzying expertise from around the world, assembling support from the Skeletal Biology Program at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History; specialists in ground penetrating radar from Geophysical Survey Systems, Inc.; King’s lab at the University of Leicester; dental specialists Joshua Cohen of Virginia Commonwealth University and Martin Levin of the University of Pennsylvania; and many others.

“One of the things that excites me the most, as an archaeologist, is to work with a team of world class archaeologists, and to experience the camaraderie and collaborations,” says Leach. “It’s really a dream come true.”

In the months ahead, the team will continue to gather evidence for (or perhaps against) the identification of Sir George Yeardley in these remains. But regardless of the skeleton’s identity, this particular investigation is only a piece of the culmination of decades of work in the nation’s first settlement. Yeardley or not Yeardley, this individual will weave a thread to the ever-growing tapestry of Jamestown’s colorful history—and far more remains to be discovered.

“And if it’s not [Yeardley],” says Givens, “then who got such a prominent burial in the church?”

Editor's note, July 25, 2018: Due to an editing error, this article's headline has been updated to better contextualize the identity of Sir George Yeardley, an English colonist who came to a continent already populated by Native Americans.

====== 141 ========

WHY MANTIS SHRIMPS, NOT SHARKS, MIGHT BE THE MOST AMAZING PREDATORS IN THE SEA

When you think about fearsome predators in the ocean, the first thing that pops into your mind is probably a shark. Sure, sharks are OK, with their sleek, menacing shape and their gaping jaws with rows of jagged teeth. But if you were a fish living on a coral reef or cruising along the shore over the sands of a tropical island, you would fear a far more terrifying predator.

Consider an armored, tank-like creature looking something like a lobster. Most are quite small, often tinier than your little finger, though some can be as long as your forearm. This animal doesn’t swim around like a shark; instead, it hides in the sand or in rocky holes in coral, searching the water above with constantly roving eyes. It can snatch prey right out of the water in a tiny fraction of a second.

And it accomplishes this feat without claws. Instead, it’s armed with a powerful pair of what scientists call “raptorial appendages” that end in a brutal hammer or a series of vicious, pointed spines. These prey-catching arms look somewhat like the front legs of a praying mantis, which gives these creatures their name – mantis shrimps.

They’re crustaceans – the group of hard-shelled animals that includes crabs, lobsters and shrimps. The strength of the mantis shrimps’ raptorial arms together with their amazing eyes make them perfect predators.

Massively powerful predators

Mantis shrimps’ raptorial appendages contain massive muscles that can extend them to their full length in hundredths of a second, producing strike forces that in some species can smash through the glass wall of an aquarium or instantly dismember a crab. These smashing attacks are so forceful they produce tiny bubbles in the water. When these cavitation bubbles collapse in a flash of light, they release additional energy onto the target. Boat propellers and turbine blades are often ruined by cavitation forces; mantis shrimps use them to crack the hard shells of their victims.

Other species, with spiny raptorial appendages, impale fish or shrimp with a vice-like grip that allows the mantis shrimp to drag them down into its burrow – often, in the blink of an eye.

Mantis shrimps – properly called stomatopod crustaceans – first appeared in the oceans about 400 million years ago, and have been evolving on their own route to perfection ever since. By now, they are only distantly related to any other living animal, including ones that arose from their crustacean ancestors. They’re so unusual that they seem to have arrived from another planet - in fact, vision scientist Mike Land jokingly calls them “shrimps from Mars.”

There are almost 500 known species of mantis shrimp. However, they stay well concealed in their rocky and sandy burrows, and only a few scientists study them, so there are probably many new mantis shrimps yet to be discovered. Almost all live in shallow, marine waters, and most inhabit the tropics.

Remarkable eyes of the mantis shrimp

Like all crustaceans (insects, too), mantis shrimps have compound eyes – think of the eyes of crabs, bees, or butterflies. Each eye has hundreds of separate facets, each of which is a single unit of the entire compound eye. But mantis shrimp eyes are far more specialized than all other compound eyes, in some ways more than any other eyes biologists have ever discovered.

For one thing, each eye is like three eyes squeezed into one. The three parts all look at the same point in space, much as our two separate eyes focus on the same scene. We use our two eyes to locate an object in space. Mantis shrimps can work out the distance to objects they’re looking at using a single eye.

Two eye parts, at the top and bottom of the eye, are probably involved in this distance vision. The third part is built from parallel rows of facets that run around the middle of the eye like a belt. Usually there are six rows, though a few species have only two. This part of the eye is called the “midband,” and it supports many special abilities.

Further, most mantis shrimps see ultraviolet light – part of the electromagnetic spectrum that causes sunburn in you or me and that is invisible to our eyes. Mantis shrimps not only sense this light, but with their specialized midbands they even see separate colors of it.

This feature is on top of another set of color detectors that see the same visible light we’re used to – but in eight color channels as opposed to the three primary colors we see. Imagine trying to build a TV that looks right to a mantis shrimp. Besides the red, green, and blue colors that your TV uses to create a vivid picture, it would require pixels for violet, indigo, blue-green, orange and a deeper red than we can see.

And the midband can do even more. It can detect the polarization of light – where all the waves vibrate in the same plane. Our eyes cannot see this property of light. Mantis shrimps image things using it.

So putting together all its visual talents, when a mantis shrimp sees a fish, it’s in patterns of ultraviolet colors, eight primary regular colors and polarized light. Their eyes gather all this information and pass it on to the animal’s brain, so it can decide what to attack, when to attack it, how far away it is, and what it looks like in a dozen different ways. It’s hard for a human to even imagine the visual world of a mantis shrimp.

Letting down its defenses

With superpower vision coupled to explosive predatory arms, it seems like mantis shrimps would be invincible. But even these animals have their worries. Mantis shrimps can not only kill other animals, like fish, octopus or crabs. They can also kill each other. This raises a serious problem. Eventually, it’s time to reproduce – but how does a mantis shrimp know when another one it meets wants to mate rather than make a murderous assault?

Mantis shrimps have been forced to evolve ways to recognize when it’s safe to get intimate and to signal their own nonlethal intent. They use their special vision for this too. Mantis shrimps are often brightly colored, and they display patterns – invisible to us – in ultraviolet and polarized light. The complicated displays inform other members of their species, or of different ones, what they plan to do. If their plans include reproduction, and the viewer is of similar mind, then they can safely mate and initiate a new generation of their species.

So, yes – sharks are all right. But do they have bullet-like strikes? Do they have super-vision? Can they take down prey in milliseconds? It’s mantis shrimps that have these abilities, and they use them to become some of the world’s most impressive predators.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Thomas Cronin, Professor of Biological Sciences, University of Maryland, Baltimore County

====== 142 ========

COULD THESE GLASSES CURE YOUR MOTION SICKNESS?

As a kid, I could read for hours in the back of a car zigzagging through the mountains, no problem. A full day of loop-de-loop roller coasters at a nearby amusement park was the highlight of the summer.

These days, simply sitting on a park swing makes me queasy. Reading in a car on a winding road? Not unless you want to see what I had for breakfast.

As a sufferer of motion sickness, I’m not alone. Almost everyone is susceptible to some degree—about 5 percent of us are severely affected, while another 5 percent are relatively immune. Women report more and worse sickness, as do migraine sufferers. Many people become less susceptible with age, while others (hello) become more.

Recently, a French company has begun selling a pair of glasses it says can reduce motion sickness in 95 percent of cases. The Boarding Glasses look like swim goggles for some four-eyed alien species, with two round lenses in front and two on the side, the hollow rims each half filled with blue liquid.

“Motion sickness comes from a sense of conflict between what your eyes can see and what your balance system and your inner ears can feel,” says Antoine Jeannin, CEO of Boarding Ring, the company that makes the glasses.

With the Boarding Glasses, the liquid moves with the movement of the boat or vehicle, creating an artificial horizon.

“Your eyes always get the reality of the movement and get a signal that is consistent with the balance system perception,” Jeannin says.

You put the glasses on at the first sign of sickness, leave them on for 10 or 12 minutes, and then take them off. Usually this cures you of nausea for the rest of the journey, Jeannin says.

The glasses were invented by Jeannin’s father, Hubert, who spent a career working in optics before dedicating himself to the problem of motion sickness. Hubert Jeannin patented his innovation in 2004 and tested the Boarding Glasses prototypes with the French navy, and, although the exact results are confidential, his son says it was extremely successful—some 95 percent of users found the glasses helpful within 10 minutes. Father and son now run the company together, with father handling innovation and son handling business. The €90 ($106) glasses are now in pre-order and will ship in December. There is also a special limited edition pair being developed for the Citroen auto company.

The Boarding Glasses are the latest in a series of anti-motion sickness innovations going back thousands of years. Ancient Chinese texts speak of seasickness as well as “cart sickness”—motion sickness caused by riding in a horse-drawn cart—and “litter sickness,” caused by riding in a sedan chair. The Yuan Dynasty physician Zhu Danxi suggested drinking the urine of young boys as a remedy. Later Chinese medical texts recommend praying to the goddess of sailors or bringing a bit of dirt from your kitchen floor along on a sea journey, for protection. Early Greeks and Romans also recognized seasickness and noted that professional sailors were relatively immune. Their cures included sniffing fragrant herbs like thyme and mint, rubbing ground wormwood in the nostrils, eating rose petals boiled in wine, or simply fasting before a voyage.

Though motion sickness is mainly a nuisance today, in the past it actually could have serious ramifications. Caesar wrote of how some of his troops, swept to Greek shores by stormy seas, were too exhausted to fight and were executed. When Napoleon launched a camel corps during his campaign in Egypt, some soldiers would become so sick from the animals’ swaying motion they couldn’t fight. Immigrants on the journey to the Americas over the centuries were known to occasionally die of seasickness-induced dehydration, as did babies whose seasick mothers could no longer produce enough milk.

Despite its commonness, motion sickness is not well understood. Most experts think it has something to do with a confusion between the signals received by the body (we’re moving!) and the ones received by the eyes (the seat in front of me is stable—we’re not moving!). But why, exactly, this causes nausea is not clear. One theory, from the 1970s, suggests nausea and vomiting is an evolutionary adaptation to the body-eyes signal mismatch, as this could historically have been caused by reactions to eating toxic plants. Another, more recent, theory suggests it may have to do with our inability to maintain a stable posture in a moving environment.

Common and well-accepted modern remedies for motion sickness include keeping your eyes on the horizon, choosing your seat wisely (front or driver’s seat in a car, center of a boat, over the wings on a plane), avoiding alcohol and fatty foods, and taking medications such as Dramamine or scopolamine.

But these are rarely complete cures. So people keep looking. We suck lemons, chew ginger and sniff peppermint oil. We try folk remedies like taping an aspirin to our belly buttons (Google it). Inventors have been working hard for a cure too, with sometimes curious results. There are patents for a number of anti-motion sickness devices, including a pair of blinders to block out visual information, a head mounted projection device meant to make visual information line up with sensory information, and shutter glasses that open and close rapidly, meant to prevent the visual slippage associated with motion sickness.

Thomas Stoffregan, a professor of kinesiology at the University of Minnesota who studies motion sickness, is skeptical that technologies like Boarding Glasses will be especially effective.

“People have been trying to use an artificial horizon in the context of motion sickness for several decades, at least since the 1970s,” he says. “It’s never worked. My question to this company is ‘what’s different about your virtual horizon?’”

In response, Jeannin says the Boarding Glasses are unique because they bring an artificial horizon to the peripheral vision—that's why the glasses have four lenses—unlike other products, which only engage the central vision.

Stoffregan, who pioneered the theory that postural stability—our ability to keep our bodies stable—is the main factor behind motion sickness, says the best motion sickness remedies don’t necessarily involve technology at all.

“One thing that demonstrably does help for seasickness is to get up on deck and look at the actual horizon,” he says. “In automobiles, I say sit in front and look out the window. Don’t look at the grass going by—look at the horizon. Also, sit down and use the headrest.”

Since the Boarding Glasses won’t be available to try for months, I’ll be testing out Stoffregan’s theory on my next car trip, eyes glued to the horizon, head pinned to the seatback.

====== 143 ========

THIS ARTIST DWELLS IN THE CLANDESTINE WORLD OF CLASSIFIED SECRETS AND SURVEILLANCE

Trevor Paglen thinks of himself as working in the tradition of the landscape photographer.

So much so that a work by 19th century landscape photographer Timothy O’Sullivan is included in the mid-career survey “Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen,” which opened recently at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C.

In Paglen’s DMSP 5B/F4 From Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, he captures the same horizon O’Sullivan did in 1867. But in the nighttime grandeur, the viewer notes that amid the stars traveling in the same direction, one is forging an opposite course.

“I’m trying to understand what the landscape looks like now,” Paglen says of today’s night sky. And to do so, “I set up the photograph in such a way, I knew there was going to be a secret reconnaissance satellite moving through the frame of the photograph while I had the shutter of the camera open.”

Paglen says he sees himself in the tradition of photographers such as O’Sullivan, who have captured the scene before, but with a twist. And in capturing the errant path of a spy satellite he’s making another commentary on photography, there isn’t just an update, he says, but a new dimension.

“This is a spy satellite taking pictures of the ground,” he says, so in addition to taking a picture of the landscape, “in a way, the landscape is also taking a picture of me.” He even inserts himself into the space landscape by designing satellites soon to be launched for no other reason than to briefly reflect back to Earth. Later this year, Paglen will launch his own for-art-only Orbital Reflector into outer space in collaboration with the Nevada Museum of Art.

O’Sullivan, like Eadweard Muybridge and other renown photographers of the late 19th century, did some of their work as survey photographers for the U.S. government, Paglen has pointed out. So they too, in their way, were reconnaissance photographers. Paglen offers this as an entry into the basis of his work, which he says is about the act of seeing.

“Who is seeing?” he asks. “What are the power dynamics of seeing? What are the politics of seeing? What are the histories of seeing that are always embedded in anything we turn our attention to?”

It all hints at the shadowy world of surveillance and subterfuge that lies close beneath the surface in much of his work and is seen in the shimmering desert views that hide military outposts or in overhead shots taken at spy sites like the National Security Agency campus in Fort Meade, Maryland. It’s still a sort of landscape photography—but one that is attempting to glimpse a clandestine world.

John Jacob, the museum’s curator for photography, says the images “show something we’re not meant to see, whose concealment he regards as symptomatic of the historical moment that we inhabit.”

“He opens our eyes to the world in which we live,” says Stephanie Stebich, the museum’s director. “In Washington D.C., these questions about the world which we have created are always relevant.”

In addition to the photographs, though, there are other artifacts of Paglen’s inquiries, the largest of which is a round inflatable Prototype for a Nonfunctional Satellite and a more angular prototype for the inflatable Orbital Reflector, the 100-foot-long satellite that he’ll be launching this fall—a project that was funded by a $70,000 Kickstarter campaign last year in collaboration with the Nevada Museum of Art.

Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen Looking toward the earth, sea, or sky as earlier artists have, Paglen captures the same horizon seen by Turner in the 19th century or by Ansel Adams in the 20th century. Only in Paglen’s images, a drone or classified communications satellite is also visible. “For me,” Paglen observes, “seeing the drone in the 21st century is a bit like Turner seeing the train in the 19th century.” Buy

Paglen also presents an array of military patches from clandestine missions that he has collected, some of which depict aliens or the ’Spy vs. Spy’ characters from Mad magazine. One wall has a list of the endless code names for secret operations that he has collected, from “Able Ally” to “Zodiac Beauchamp.”

“You end up with this almost kind of found poetry,” says Paglen, who divides the names into those collected pre- and post-Edward Snowden, the former contractor who leaked tens of thousands of classified files (Paglen contributed images to the Oscar-winning documentary about Snowden, CitizenFour).

His photographs of hidden buildings, sometimes shot from a distance of 20 miles away, are on display, as is an image of the playful beach on Long Island, where underwater international internet cables converge. Space is a constant interest to him, whether it’s the alleged UFO outpost of Area 51 he investigates, or messages left in the galaxy for other intelligent life.

Another aspect of the exhibition looks at the phenomenon of face recognition software—and how computers identify people and objects, and who has the power to control such systems.

Many of the works can be appreciated simply for their visual splendor, such as the swirl of concentrate circles in his 2010 work STSS-1 and Two Unidentified Spacecraft Over Carson City (Space Tracking and Surveillance System, USA 205). But one grim corner is a model of a sculpture designed for the exclusion zone in Fukushima, site of the 2011 nuclear disaster. Trinity Cube, 2016, blends irradiated glass from the site with some of the sand that turned to glass when the U.S. exploded the first test nuclear bomb in New Mexico in 1945.

“This is an artist’s proof,” he says in pointing out the box, adding with assurance, “it is not radioactive.”

Born in Camp Springs, Maryland, and now living in Berlin, Paglen has a master’s degree in fine art from the Art Institute of Chicago and a doctorate in geography from the University of California Berkeley.

A 2017 MacArthur Foundation “genius” grant recipient, Paglen has turned his research into five books about black-ops sites, state secrecy and military symbology. Among them is the 2009 Blank Spots on the Map: The Dark Geography of the Pentagon’s Secret World.

Despite acclaim for the books, Paglen says his work is chiefly focused on art. “As the world gets more and more complicated, you have to do a lot of research to put yourself in the position to see something if you’re able to see it,” he says.

Such as that spy satellite in his Pyramid Lake photograph. “Some of that work you do can look journalistic, or it can look academic, or it can look more gonzo than that,” he says. “But that’s where it comes from.”

Throughout, says Jacob, Paglen is “carrying on the museum’s long record of critically examining America’s changing relation to its landscape in embracing the timely topics of privacy and surveillance.”

Further, Jacob says “it also responds to Secretary David Skorton’s vision for the Smithsonian Institution as “a catalyst for convening a national conversation about the critical ideas of the day.”

"Trevor Paglen: Sites Unseen," curated by John Jacob, continues at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C. through January 6, 2019. It is scheduled to travel to The San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art Feb. 21-June 2, 2019.

====== 144 ========

HOMECOMING KING: THE NATION’S T. REX RETURNS TO THE SMITHSONIAN

Just a couple inches closer and it’s all over for this Triceratops. Towering overhead, the Tyrannosaurus rex looms large and menacing, one stabilizing foot planted firmly onto the Triceratops’ flank, as its monstrous maw descends to tear its victim’s head from its frilly shoulders.

It’s the gut-wrenching theater of macabre, enough to raise the hairs on the back of anyone’s neck. The good news? The pair, frozen in this frightful snapshot, will soon be on display for all the world to see.

Today, the National Museum of Natural History unveiled a sneak peek of the “Nation’s T. rex” in its momentous return to Washington, D.C. after a four-year hiatus. It also announced that the newly renovated “David H. Koch Hall of Fossils—Deep Time” will open to the public on Saturday, June 8, 2019, a debut that will include the first fully assembled T. rex skeleton to be on display at the Smithsonian. The patriotically-named dinosaur returns after a few years abroad—but rex hasn’t squandered its time soaking up the sights. The fossils of this T. rex have spent the last four years being meticulously assembled by a team of scientists in Canada.

The new Hall is named in honor of philanthropist David H. Koch, who made a generous contribution of $35 million, the largest single donation in the Museum's history. The entire project is projected to cost $125 million.

“Our dinosaurs are coming home,” says the Museum’s director Kirk Johnson at a preview of the hall today. And not just to any home: the new hall will reopen as what Johnson describes as the “most visited room in the most visited natural history museum in the world.” As a whole, the Museum delights 7 million patrons from around the world each year.

For now, the T. rex is not yet assembled into its final form: The skeleton only recently arrived back on American soil, bones parceled out between a dizzying number of crates that await unpacking. The display will eventually yield a formidable and fully-formed beast standing at about 15 feet tall and 40 feet long, poised to glut on the body of an unlucky Triceratops. This cinematic scene will take about a month to assemble—but the exhibit has already been decades in the making.

In 1988, rancher Kathy Wankel was baffled to stumble upon the pristine skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus rex while enjoying an innocent hike with her family in Montana’s Fort Peck reservoir. Because they were on federal property, Wankel quickly notified the authorities. Over the next two years, the newly dubbed “Wankel rex” was carefully excavated by a team of paleontologists led by Jack Horner from the Museum of the Rockies in nearby Bozeman. For nearly 20 years, the 66-million-year-old fossils held tenure in the Montana museum, splayed in the original configuration in which the bones had been found—the T. rex’s “death pose.”

But five years ago, the Smithsonian’s Museum of Natural History finalized a 50-year loan agreement with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to display the Wankel rex in the nation’s capital, securing what Johnson calls “the first significant addition to the fossil hall since 1981.”

And so, in 2014, seven tons of fossils began a lumbering 2,000-mile weekend road trip from Montana to Washington, D.C., nestled in the back of a hefty FedEx 18-wheeler emblazoned with a grandiose tagline: “Delivering History.” The Nation’s T. rex was (re)born.

Upon the T. rex’s arrival at the Museum, hundreds of bones were carefully unwrapped from a veritable bevy of packing material required to withstand the turbulent trip. The fossils were first 3D-scanned to generate a lasting digital rendering of the skeleton that could be studied past the lifespan of the precious, material bones.

Some fortunate patrons who visited the Museum between the months of April and October of 2014 had the chance to see the scanning process in action in an annexed Rex Room. But by fall of that year, the daunting dino mascot was again on the move— this time, crossing international borders in a hard detour to the Great White North. Before rex could premiere to the public, it first needed to be fitted for its debutante dress: A set of custom metal frames for each individual bone, cradling the delicate fossils while anchoring them to the scaffold of its final choreography.

This task fell to Ontario’s Research Casting International, an aptly named firm with a prestigious history of assembling dinosaurs for museums around the world. It’s a game of Jenga with incomprehensible stakes. Gone are the days when curators drilled holes into fossils to install binding ropes and bars (a fate tragically endured by many of the former Hall’s original specimens): The goal now is to preserve—not only for display purposes, but also so scientists can still access the individual specimens for future research. Thus, each of the metal ligaments that secures the fossils is removable.

Complicating matters was the issue of theatrics. The Montana “death pose” may have been accurate, but Smithsonian curators were determined to maneuver the bones into a configuration that displayed T. rex in all its former glory—something at the intersection of realistic and visually striking, all while being mindful of the irreplaceable fossils themselves. Fortunately, much of the finagling could be done digitally, thanks to the Museum’s 3D scans. But the question remained: How would rex regale? It was truly the world’s most intimidating jigsaw puzzle.

But then arose the idea of adding a second player: a Triceratops. It was a unique scenario—something no other museum had executed before, positioning two dinosaurs in a fight that would have happened 66 to 68 million years ago. “It allowed us to do something no one’s done yet with a T. rex: these two animals directly engaged,” explains Matthew Carrano, the Museum’s curator of dinosaurs.

Upon closer inspection, the Triceratops underfoot may seem familiar to the most zealous of natural history buffs. Nicknamed “Hatcher” for his paleontologist discoverer, the Triceratops in question has been on display at the Smithsonian since 1905, albeit usually in less precarious situations. In truth, Hatcher is actually a not-so-secret clone, cast from a cobbling of different Triceratops skeletons in 1998; yet another replica will be the one to join the Wankel rex in Hatcher’s final matinee.

In addition to a partial decapitation, Hatcher will sport a broken horn and a couple fractured ribs—a grisly indication of the T. rex’s staggering power. But the Triceratops’ fate may have already been sealed: It’s unclear whether T. rex is poised to deliver a fatal blow, or simply capitalizing on some conveniently located roadkill.

Although T. rex is recognized as the largest carnivore in western North American during its time, scientists are not sure whether the tyrant king was more of a predator or a scavenger; the two certainly aren’t mutually exclusive. So, while it’s plausible that a Triceratops would have comprised a typical T. rex treat, the nature of their interaction—and whether the Triceratops had already been felled by some other malady first—is left up to the imagination. The send-off seems grim, but no one can say Hatcher isn’t retiring in style.

Once Carrano and Research Casting International were satisfied with this climactic rendering, the team then disassembled the duo and prepared them for the return trip to D.C.

While the Wankel rex was on sabbatical, the Museum seized the opportunity to revamp the entirety of its century-old fossil hall, hoping to reinvigorate the exhibition with the latest paleontological science in time to coincide with the return of rex. And so began the largest, most extensive renovation in museum history. When the new Koch Hall of Fossils reopens in June 2019, it will reveal a completely refurbished 31,000-square-foot space stocked floor-to-ceiling with dazzling fossils from eras gone by—centered around the Nation’s T. rex as its breathtaking pièce de résistance. Over 700 specimens of animals, plants and insects will accompany the T. rex in showcasing the 3.7 billion years of life thus far on Earth.

“The history of life has always been rich and diverse and complicated as it is today, just without humans,” says Kathy Hollis , the Museum’s national fossil collections manager. “We’re just a blip or a moment in the Earth’s history. We have the consciousness to think about that, and put ourselves in context of history and future.”

Although 80 to 85 percent of this T. rex (at least, by size) was recovered in the excavation, several of the fossils, including the head and most of the ribs, are too fragile for display. Just over half of the bones that are ultimately unveiled to the public will be bona fide dino; carefully reconstructed synthetics will fill in the gaps. For the bones for which there is no true counterpart, Carrano and his team have appended approximations with the utmost accuracy, either drawing from mirror images in the dinosaur’s anatomy or modeling on other T. rex skeletons from separate excavations.

The Wankel rex surfaced at an opportune juncture in the timeline of paleontological technology. With the mostly intact skeleton, scientists eagerly expanded their knowledge of Tyrannosaurus, including the first physical forearm specimen in history. What’s more, we now know the Nation’s T. rex died when it was about 18 years old. Delightfully, the age of a dino tracks like a tree: simply saw through a bone and count its rings. Its cause of death and sex, though, remain mysterious.

However, Carrano believes there is more to come. “Undoubtedly there are still things we’re going to learn from it,” he says.

This is an emotional time for Carrano: the re-opening of the fossil hall is a culmination of his career at the Smithsonian thus far, a project he has invested in since 2002.

“It’s still a little surreal: You spend so much time thinking about it, having meetings, planning for things—there’s so many people involved, and you’re focusing on every tiny detail,” he reflects. “And then you forget to imagine what it’s like when it’s all done. In one way or another, I’ve been thinking about this for over 16 years. It’s like sending a kid off to college.”

In the coming weeks, the Nation’s T. rex will be reassembled in its new home, allowing the rest of the Koch Hall of Fossils to reshape around its centerpiece. When the Hall opens next June, the Wankel rex will finally reveal itself to the public, hopefully bringing with it a resurgence of dino fever at the Smithsonian. But luckily for Hatcher—and the rest of the world—both Triceratops and Tyrannosaurus will remain frozen for the foreseeable future: no one’s getting eaten just yet.

====== 145 ========

IS ALL STILL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT?

One Sunday morning in the 11th Arrondissement of Paris, lured by hydrangeas, roses and pigeons, I strolled past a playground filled with children’s voices. The cool white Parisian sky made me want to sit on a bench and do nothing. Behind the playground a church bell tolled the hour, a crow told time in its own voice and a breeze suddenly hissed through the maples.

It was a hundred years since the First World War had come to an end. Earlier that morning, approaching Paris by taxi, I passed an exit sign for the Marne, reminding me that in one of the many emergencies of that war thousands of soldiers were rushed from Paris by taxi to fight the First Battle of the Marne. Now a couple sat down on the bench next to me and began kissing. Who is to say that what they were doing wasn’t a better use of their time than studying and carefully remembering war? And how then shall I recommend the Great War to you? Let me try: Its hideous set pieces retain their power to balefully dazzle us right through the earthen darkness of a hundred years! Let its symbol be the 198-pound German Minenwerfer, which a Canadian eyewitness described as follows: “At night it has a tail of fire like a rocket. It kills by concussion.”

This essay, my attempt at remembrance, is, like any of our efforts, peculiar, accidental and limited. I should have visited Berlin, London, Vienna, Flanders, the city formerly known as Brest-Litovsk, and the various territories of the warring colonial empires. (For instance, the 295,000 Australians who fought, and the 46,000 who died, will be barely mentioned here.) I would also have liked to see my own country as it was in 1918.

Instead, to see where the conclusive fighting was done, I went to France to find what battle graves I could: the Marne, the Somme, the Meuse-Argonne, Verdun, the St. Quentin Canal. The “fountains of mud and iron,” in Remarque’s phrase, had run dry; what about the hatreds and memories?

* * *

BEGINNINGS, RAPTURES, ROBBERIES

You might think Europe and its 40 million finally dead or wounded were dragged into the muck by a series of insults and bumbling miscommunications, a whole continent at the mercy of foolhardy monarchs and military strategists who, “goaded by their relentless timetables,” as Barbara Tuchman relates in The Guns of August, “were pounding the table for the signal to move lest their opponents gain an hour’s head start.” Not so, according to many participants. “The struggle of the year 1914 was not forced on the masses—no, by the living God—it was desired by the whole people.” Thus the recollection of a young Austrian soldier named Adolf Hitler, who enlisted with a Bavarian infantry regiment as quickly as he could, and served almost to the end. “Overpowered by stormy enthusiasm, I fell down on my knees and thanked Heaven from an overflowing heart for granting me the good fortune of being permitted to live at such a time.” Could the war truly have been desired? That sounds as fatuous as the grinning death’s-head emblem on a German A7V tank. But a German historian who despised the Führer likewise remembered the “exaltation of spirit experienced during the August days of 1914.” For him, the war was one “of defense and self-protection.”

Like Hitler, the aspiring British poet Robert Graves joined the colors almost immediately. He enlisted to delay going to Oxford (“which I dreaded”), because Germany’s defiance of Belgian neutrality incensed him, and because he had a German middle name and German relatives, which caused him to be suspected. Other Britons were as enthusiastic as Hitler. “Anticipation of carnage was delightful to something like ninety percent of the population,” observed Bertrand Russell, the Nobel Prize-winning philosopher. Trotsky, witnessing the jubilation in Vienna, remarked that for “the people whose lives, day in and day out, pass in a monotony of hopelessness,” the “alarm of mobilization breaks into their lives like a promise.”

One might equally well blame diplomatic incompetence, Austro-Hungarian hubris or the partially accidental multiplier effect of a certain assassination in Sarajevo. And then there was Kaiser Wilhelm, with his mercurial insecurities, military fetish and withered arm—to what extent was he the cause? In a photograph taken New Year’s Day, 1913, we see him on parade, beaming in outright exultation and taking clear kindred pleasure in wearing a British admiral’s uniform. (He was, after all, the eldest grandchild of Queen Victoria.) Twelve years after the armistice, the British military theoretician Liddell Hart, who was shelled and gassed as a young infantry officer at the front, made the case against the kaiser bluntly: “By the distrust and alarm which his bellicose utterances and attitude created everywhere he filled Europe with gunpowder.”

The historian John Keegan, in his classic account The First World War, called it “a tragic, unnecessary conflict.” If that fails to satisfy you, let me quote Gary Sheffield, a revisionist: “A tragic conflict, but it was neither futile nor meaningless,” his idea being that liberal democracy in Europe depended on it. Meanwhile, in came the Russian autocracy and Turkish sultanate to complement the empires of Germany and Austria-Hungary; however necessary they thought the war, by entering it they utterly erased themselves.

Some war tourists may be disposed to amble along a more fatalistic line, so here it is: Three years before the slaughter, a certain Gen. Friedrich von Bernhardi explained the birds and the bees in Germany and the Next War: “Without war, inferior or decaying races would easily choke the growth of healthy, budding elements, and a universal decadence would follow.”

Reader, have you ever read more inspiring words to live by?

* * *

THE STATIC

1

A certain influential treatise entitled Weapons and Tactics, published in 1943 by the British military historian and man-of-letters Tom Wintringham and updated 30 years later, divides military history into alternating armored and unarmored periods. The Great War was something in between. Those glorious unarmored days when a sufficiently frenetic cavalry or bayonet charge could break through enemy lines still dazzled the generals. Yet the “defensive power” of machine guns, of barbed wire, and of the spade (for digging) “had ended mobility in war.” Meanwhile, the future belonged to tanks: “a brood of slug-shaped monsters, purring, or roaring and panting, and even emitting flames as they slid or pivoted over the ground.”

Underestimating this armoring trend, German strategists prepared to follow the “Schlieffen Plan,” named for Alfred von Schlieffen, chief of Germany’s Imperial General Staff from 1891 to 1905, who conceived a rapid flank attack around French firepower. It had to be rapid, in order to defeat France and swing round against Russia before the latter completed mobilization. Well, why not?

To strike France according to timetable, one had to set aside the trifling matter of Belgium’s neutrality. But who dreaded their armor, their dog-pulled machine guns? So the Germans put on their knee-high, red-brown leather jackboots and, in the first days of August 1914, marched on Belgium.

The First Battle of the Marne began in early September. At this point the opposing armies still enjoyed some freedom of movement. The tale runs thus: An over-rapid advance (à la Schlieffen) of an already disequilibrated German Army beyond its line of supply was answered by French troops—some of whom, as you already know, were frantically delivered to the front by Parisian cabs—and a strong attack on the German right flank led finally to a so-called “failure of nerve,” which caused the Germans to retreat to the Aisne River. Here they settled into trenches until 1918.

As one Gen. Heinz Guderian put it: “The positions ultimately evolved into wired, dug-in machine-gun nests which were secured by outposts and communication trenches.” Take note of this German, if you would. He was young enough and flexible enough to learn from his defeats. We will meet him again and again.

2

Upon his arrival at the front, Robert Graves’ commander explained that trenches were temporary inconveniences. “Now we work here all the time, not only for safety but for health,” Graves writes. How healthy do you suppose they were, for men sleeping in slime, fighting lice and rats, wearing their boots for a week straight? The parapet of one trench was “built up with ammunition-boxes and corpses.” Others, Graves wrote, “stank with a gas-blood-lyddite-latrine smell.” From an Englishman at Gallipoli: “The flies entered the trenches at night and lined them with a density which was like moving cloth.”

Let the little village of Vauquois, 15 miles from Verdun, represent the trenches. The Germans took it on September 4, 1914. In March of the following year, the French regained the southern half, so the Germans dug in at the hill-crest and in the cemetery. In September 1918 the Americans finally cleared the place. During those three static years, a mere 25 feet separated the battle lines in Vauquois—surely close enough for the adversaries to hear each other.

Ascending a short steep path through thick forest, where strands of ivy ran up verdant trees approaching the white sky with its sprinkle of rain, I found on the summit near an unimpressive monument the ruins of Vauquois’ town hall, which were forbidden to the public by means of red and white striped tape. Twisted rusted relics of agricultural equipment lay on display in a kind of sandbox. Here one could look down over a checkerboard of forest and field to faraway Montfaucon, one of the enemy strongpoints that Gen. John J. Pershing’s “doughboys” would face in the great Meuse-Argonne Offensive of 1918. And just below me lay a great crater in the grass, its depth maybe 100 feet or more, where at one point the Germans had detonated 60 tons of subterranean explosives, killing 108 French infantrymen in an instant.

I descended into no man’s land, passing the hole where the church used to be, then up into the German positions where a steel-faced hole, almost filled in, grinned below the grass. Ahead rose more forest—none of it old-growth, of course, for by 1915 Vauquois and its trees had been improved into mucky craters. The fact that everything was now overgrown I had thought to be a blessing, but taking a step into the greenness I encountered waist-high tangles of barbed wire or dangerous bunker holes whose lips for all I knew might collapse beneath me.

To pulverize positions at so near a distance, a soldier was well served by the so-called trench mortar, which fired its projectile almost straight up, so that it would come down with great force upon one’s neighbors. And just here I found a trench mortar excavated from its concrete-and-steel-lined pit. Like most of the ordnance still remaining on the Western Front, it wore a black finish—the work, said the local historian Sylvestre Bresson, who was my battlefield guide for a part of my travels, of postwar preservationists, for during its working career it would have sported field-gray paint. The thing came up to my navel. Its barrel was more than large enough for me to put both arms in.

I proceeded farther into the German lines, whose lineaments were mostly disguised by dandelions, daisies, goldenrod, nettles and other weeds. The humid coolness was pleasant. How could I even hope to envision the reputed ten miles of burrows on this side? One of the trenches wound conveniently before me, between belly- and chest-high, its concrete softened by moss, and its next turning celebrated by a rusty bracket—maybe the rung of a ladder.

I clambered down into its clamminess. I followed a dandelion-crowned mossy, winding trench whose side tunnels went darkly down. Here gaped a square pit like a chimney with double-braided strands of rusty barbed wire at ankle height in the creepers just beyond. I drew prudently back. A collector might have liked that German barbed wire, which was thicker than the French version. (Bresson told me that French-issued cutters of the period could not break it.) With its long alternating spikes it looked more primitive and more vegetally “organic” than the barbed wire of today. How many French assaulters with twisted and bloody ankles had it held up long enough for the defenders to machine-gun them?

Returning to the path, I found more dark, filthy, stone-faced and metal-faced dugouts. Stooping down to peer into a mucky tunnel, I braced my hands upon a perimeter of sandbags whose canvas had rotted, the concrete remaining in the shape of each bag.

Every known World War I veteran has died; the very notion of “remembering” the war felt problematic. How could I even imagine the hellish noise? What about the smells? A Frenchman left this description: “Shells disinter the bodies, then reinter them, chop them to pieces, play with them as a cat does a mouse.”

3

By the close of 1914, with the war less than half a year old, the Western Front stretched static, thick and deep for 450 miles. The Eastern Front took on a similar if less definitive character, finally hardening between Romania and the Baltic in 1915. In a photo from November 1915 we see a line of German soldiers in greatcoats and flat-topped caps shoveling muck out of a winding narrow trench, grave-deep, somewhere in the Argonne Forest. The surface is nothing but wire, rock, sticks and dirt.

The generals thought to break the stasis using massive concentrations of artillery. Somehow, surely, the enemy positions could be pulverized, allowing charges to succeed? Weapons and Tactics: “Most of the history of the War of 1914-18 is the history of the failure of this idea.”

You see, artillery barrages, to say the least, called attention to themselves. The enemy then thickened its defenses where needed. Furthermore, the shelling tore up no man’s land, so that assault parties, instead of rushing forward, floundered in shell holes, while the enemy shot them down. In one typical outcome, Graves’ comrades “were stopped by machine-gun fire before they had got through our own entanglements.”

However perilous it was to “go over the top,” the defensive positions were themselves hardly safe. Graves writes time and time again about witnessing the deaths of his comrades right there in the earthworks. He feared rifle bullets more than shells, because they “gave no warning.” On the opposite side of the front, Hitler emoted: “In these months I felt for the first time the whole malice of Destiny which kept me at the front in a position where every n------ might accidentally shoot me to bits.”

And so their various armored immobilities stalemated the belligerents. The British were losing as many as 5,000 soldiers a week in what they called “normal wastage.” Unable to go forward, unwilling to retreat, the adversaries tried to speed up normal wastage. That is why, as early as the fall of 1915, the French and British decided on a quota of 200,000 Germans killed or wounded per month.

“Thus it went on year after year; but the romance of battle had been replaced by horror.” That was Hitler again. He, of course, remained “calm and determined.”

4

The German assault at Verdun announced itself on February 21, 1916, with the detonation of more than a thousand cannons. Something like 33 German munitions trains rolled in each day. In a photo of a second-line casualty station, we see a wounded Frenchman sitting crookedly on his crude stretcher, which rests in the dark mud. His boots are black with filth; likewise his coat up to his waist and beyond. A white bandage goes bonnet-like around his head, the top of it dark with blood. His slender, grubby hands are part-folded across his waist. His head is leaning, his eyes almost closed.

In a bunker near Verdun 100 years later I came upon a chamber whose rusty ladder ascended to a cone outlined with light, which silhouetted something like a giant mantis’ desiccated corpse: the under-chassis of a machine gun. Nearby ran another emplacement that Sylvestre Bresson thought must be part of the Maginot Line, thanks to its newer concrete. (I should remind the reader that this latter imposing bulwark was intended, decades later, to use all of World War I’s advantages of entrenched defense against that World War II aggressor, Hitler. For why wouldn’t war haunt this same ground over and over again?)

A Russian offensive against the Austrians in the east, followed by a French attack at the Somme in July, finally forced the Germans to disengage from Verdun. In October the French retook its most massive fort. The battle, the longest of World War I, finally ended on December 15. Then what? Mud, corpses, duckboards, trenches, broken trees. French and German casualties each exceeded 300,000 men.

But why disparage all this mutual effort? If its object was to kill multitudes of human beings, let’s call it a triumph, as evidenced by the French National Necropolis at Fleury-devant-Douaumont. Driving down the hill, we came upon 15,000 white crosses flashing in the sun. I went out to wander those tombstones on the down-slanting grass where crimson-petaled rosebeds ran along each row. Up at the chapel, French soldiers in uniform stood gazing down across the stones, the occasion being a change of commander. “For us this is the most sacred site,” Bresson remarked. “If France could keep only one memorial to World War I, it would be this one.”

These 15,000 dead men were all French, but nearly ten times the amount of remains, both French and German, broken and commingled, lay in the nearby ossuary. Looking in through the many ground-level windows, I saw heaps of bones and skulls in the darkness. Some yellow-brown fragments had been combined into almost decorative columns, as in the Paris catacombs.

In the edifice above them stood a Catholic chapel with stained glass windows, and in a glass case, relics from the churches of destroyed villages. This forest meadow bore stone markers to commemorate the former farm buildings, washhouses, grocery stores. Maples and cypresses had grown 102 years high. I saw dark water in the deeper shell holes, grass in the shallower ones. The grass was ingrown with daisies, dandelions and clover. Birds were singing.

5

As for the First Battle of the Somme—which was, more accurately, a dozen smaller battles, playing out over 141 days in 1916, from July to November—that accomplished kindred wonders. Liddell Hart remembered the year as “the nadir of infantry attacks,” the assaulters being “almost shoulder to shoulder, in a symmetrical, well-dressed alignment, and taught to advance steadily upright at a slow walk.” How convenient for the artillerists!

In 2018, Bresson, who lived in the Somme, enlightened me about the residue: “The bomb disposal squad comes twice a week. Twice a week, even now! You know, if there was some live shell in Paris, it would be on the news. But in the country, nobody cares. The farmers, they just carry it into the road.”

The Battle of the Somme marked the war’s first deployment of tanks (on September 15, by the British), but they were introduced in dribs and drabs, their surprise effect mostly wasted, their potential nearly invisible. On October 7, Hitler, his potential equally unforeseeable, was wounded in the thigh, but he was not out of action long.

The Somme came to be referred to as “the muddy grave of the German field army,” for German casualties were up to 650,000 killed, wounded and missing. But the muddy grave was more international than that. Its local commemorators called it un espace mondial, a world-inclusive space. The British took 420,000 casualties; the battle’s first day has been called “the bloodiest day in British history.” The French lost 200,000 men. Although Gen. Douglas Haig, commander of the British Expeditionary Force, claimed an attritional victory, David Lloyd George, Britain’s soon-to-be prime minister, called it “a bloody and disastrous failure.”

In 1918 this churned-up wasteland, well irrigated with trench-blood and fertilized with flesh, would be viciously contested all over again.

6

You may recall that 1916 was the year when the Russians broke through the Austrian defenses on the Eastern Front, causing the Germans to halt their assault on Verdun. But the Russians could only get so far. The czar’s army had already lost half its strength in the previous year, and the new assault cost them more than a million casualties. According to Liddell Hart, this latest blood bath “completed the virtual ruin of Russia’s military power.” In July 1917, the Russian Army shot its last bolt.

That previous winter, bled weak by Verdun and the Somme, the Germans prepared a strategic withdrawal from a 20-mile salient between Arras and Soissons in northern France. A salient is in essence a bulge into enemy lines—a reified hope of breakthrough. Abandoning one may be a sad business, but also prudent, because any such position is vulnerable on two or three sides.

Hence Operation Alberich, whose first step would be the construction of the best-fortified redoubt in Europe: the Siegfried Line, or, as the British called it, the Hindenburg Line, Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg being the new German commander in chief: grizzled, calm, soldierly-looking, maybe even statesmanlike. (In 1933, the same Hindenburg, now a grandly senile old figurehead—and president of the young, doomed Weimar Republic—would appoint Hitler as chancellor.)

Hindenburg’s First Quartermaster, and in many ways the guiding partner, was Gen. Erich von Ludendorff, humorless and irascible, who five years after the war would march beside Hitler in the sordid “Beer Hall Putsch.” (Hitler later proclaimed Ludendorff “leader, and chief with dictatorial power, of the German national army.”) Since it is to Ludendorff that accounts of this period generally assign agency, I shall do the same.

The Hindenburg Line has been called “the war’s greatest feat of engineering.” Its various belts, which bore such mythological names as “Kriemhild” and “Freya,” ran for 300 miles. Half a million laborers toiled for four months to make them, dispersing the cargoes of 1,250 trains. The line began with an antitank ditch, followed by “at least” five walls of barbed wire; “next came a line of defense anchored by forts and blockhouses bristling with machine guns, and the final major barrier boasted an intricate system of zigzag trenches designed to prevent enfilading fire”—and this ominous description, courtesy of The Oxford Companion to Military History, leaves out the St. Quentin Canal, a waterway that was up to 35 feet wide and 50 to 60 feet deep. Two artillery lines brooded in the rear.

The withdrawal took place in February 1917. The Germans left behind them what one officer called “a desolate, dead desert,” Ludendorff having determined to make it into “a totally barren land” in which Allied “maneuverability was to be critically impaired.” First they removed anything they could use. Then they razed every building, mined every street, poisoned every well, dammed every creek, burned everything that would burn. The vileness of this policy remains a matter of opinion. Bresson assured me: “You know, we did the same thing when we left Gallipoli, in 1915.” Hart described the withdrawal as “a consummate maneuver, if unnecessarily brutal in application.” But he was one of those ­realists who did not consider chlorine gas especially cruel.

And so the front was not merely frozen, but steel-frozen. Thus it went through most of 1917, the year when President Woodrow Wilson proposed, and the kaiser rejected, “peace without victory.”

* * *

UNLOCKING THE FRONT

1

What finally destroyed the long primacy of immobile armored defense? First of all, a British naval blockade, which had been in effect since before the first battle of 1914, began to starve the two adjacent Central Powers of essential materials like rubber and brass. By 1916 the starvation was becoming literal. In a German photo from the late war years we see kerchiefed, long-skirted women bending over a rubbish heap, pickaxing its filth in search of anything nourishing to go in a grimy bucket. The protagonists of the German veteran Remarque’s All Quiet on the Western Front, weakening on their “turnip jam,” count themselves lucky whenever they can snatch up butter and corned beef from the French positions they’ve assaulted.

Attack technologies now also began to render machine-gun nests and barbed-wired trenches, if not yet obsolete, at least penetrable. Planes had barely begun to prove themselves, but the prospect of a pack of high-flying bombing and strafing machines took on nerve-racking plausibility.

Tanks, after their first faltering foray at the Somme, had been improved. One innovator recognized that the fuel tanks should be less vulnerable to direct hits. The British and French commenced mass production. Still, Germany deployed no tanks of its own manufacture until the war’s last year, by which time its enemies possessed 5,000; it had just 45.

Here is how the German officer Guderian remembered the First Battle of Cambrai, from 1917: “In a few hours the strongest position on the Western Front had been broken,” he lamented. “The bells rang out in London for the first time in the war.”

One of the British monsters that so obsessed Guderian was named “Deborah,” designated female because “she” sported machine guns instead of six-pounders. I have seen her all alone at the Cambrai Tank 1917 Museum. The poor girl had been buried in muck until 1998. Her rounded-tipped quadrilateral shape challenges description: sort of like a riveted roach or crocodile, but not exactly.

The museum staff had tastefully enclosed her snout in genuine Great War barbed wire. Her bow and starboard side gaped jaggedly open, offering darkness and the smell of oil; her guts were partly shattered and twisted by the German fire that killed four of her crewmen, who lay in the adjacent cemetery. But in her port flank two service-holes remained, one rectangular, the other perfectly round, so that the gray light of that concrete room shone right through her. Her ripped, rusted yet surprisingly durable carapace made the horror of the war itself more durable. At her backside lay two wreaths.

Immediately adjacent to her public sepulcher I found the Flesquières Hill British Cemetery, whose ground had been captured in the Cambrai battle, lost soon after, then retaken in September 1918, at which point it came in handy for new deposits. After looking out from the stone pavilion across the green lawn to the great cross and past two lovely trees toward cloud-shaded fields with wind turbines on the horizon, I opened the heavy door that protected the visitors’ book. One inscription read: To those who gave their lives, and those who keep their memories so well. Another: Thank you all boys RIP. Four days before me, someone had come to visit his fallen grandfather. The most recent inscription was in French: We will never forget you.

The registry book told another story. This place once lay behind the German Flesquières Soldiers’ Cemetery No. 2. After the armistice, the German graves were moved to a “cemetery extension” (which would itself be relocated in 1924). In their place British plots were erected. Such disrespect must have increased the vanquished’s hatred for the victors, but that was hardly the fault of 28259 PRIVATE JOHN DAVEY CARTER ROYAL LANCASTER REGIMENT 8TH OCTOBER 1918 AGE 27, ON WHOSE SOUL SWEET JESUS HAVE MERCY. I copied these words from his tombstone. Then I stood and took in the red roses, black-eyed Susans and purple flowers.

2

In the judgment of All Quiet on the Western Front, “The summer of 1918 is the most bloody and the most terrible.” Not knowing the outcome as we do, Germany tried to see the sunny side of the barbed wire. “The whole army took fresh hope and fresh courage after the Russian collapse,” Hitler remembered. For after Russia’s soldiers declined to continue prosecuting the war, the weak-willed czar abdicated, and the newly empowered Bolsheviks sued for peace, which the Germans granted at a stringent price in resources and territory. (Thus the infamous Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.)

And so the kaiser could credit himself with the first great conquest of that War to End All Wars. “Out of the wreckage of the czar’s dominions,” as Gary Sheffield wrote in his history Forgotten Victory, grew “a network of client states and spheres of influences that added up to a new German colonial empire with enormous economic potential.”

Now, wasn’t that something worth invading Belgium for? With Russia imploding into civil war, Ludendorff and Hindenburg could now transfer multitudes of German troops to the Western Front, build new assault groups, strike the French and British at just the right spot, and at long last smash through the stasis of 1914-17.

As always, haste would be called for. The operation depended on quick success—before General Pershing got his American troops trained and mobilized.

3

The United States, goaded into it by the repeated sea-murder (so we not unreasonably saw it) of our own nationals by U-boats, had declared war on Germany in 1917. American soldiers entered the trenches that October, but didn’t begin leading large-scale operations until 1918, the year when the actors Lawrence Grant starred in “To Hell With the Kaiser!” and Norman Kaiser changed his name to Norman Kerry. Meanwhile, thanks to Operation Alberich, the Germans had had a year to recuperate their energies and thicken the Hindenburg Line. Secure in defense, they prepared to strike.

On March 21, 1918, only 18 days after Brest-Litovsk, the Germans began a new campaign, code-named “Michael,” whose artillery barrage could be heard even in England. A German soldier called the noise “incessant and almost musical,” while a British rifleman thought it sounded like “sheer hell.”

Since massed attacks pre-announced by artillery barrages had accomplished so little throughout the war, Ludendorff essayed what had worked so well for T.E. Lawrence against the Turks: infiltration, seeking points of least resistance. The idea was to break the British Army, and thus Allied morale, and so bring about an end to the war.

Concentrating their forces secretly by night, then advancing through fog and their own fresh-laid poison gas in small groups of storm troopers over 60 miles of front, the Germans achieved full surprise. A desirable punch-through point was the town of Arras, birthplace of the French Revolution’s ruthlessly “incorruptible” Robespierre, who in obedience to some form of golden rule was himself finally guillotined.

The train from Amiens droned past an emerald field of white cows, which gave way to rippled ponds, gray clouds, mown grass, white churches, trees. Here came the town of Albert, with a golden figure on its high brickwork tower; then our tracks entered a cut between the trees, came out again, and we glided through that kind of landscape that cliché-mongers call idyllic.

Disembarking in Arras, I found myself in a cobbled square, walled in by four-story buildings, facing the ornate sweep of the town hall and the pale-yellow Hôtel de Ville, then a clock tower whose hands and Roman numerals were gold, and finally the famous belfry. Outside the Hôtel a monument memorialized Germany’s victims of 1940 and 1944, in this case Resistance fighters; on the square itself two plaques dryly explained that the original belfry dated from 1463 to 1914 and the Hôtel de Ville from 1502 to 1914.

“Michael” quickly gained a miraculous 37-odd miles, so that it began to seem that the stasis was broken at last. Guderian called the feat “the greatest success achieved on the Western Front since trench warfare had begun.” On March 23 the invaders set up shop in the Laon Salient, close upon Crépy, and began bombarding Paris. The artillerists fired payloads of 200 to 230 pounds every 20 minutes for 139 days. They killed a thousand people and more. Smelling total victory, the kaiser declared a holiday.

4

Yet failing to reduce Arras on the 26th and again on the 28th, Ludendorff was compelled to release his straining grasp on the city. The date was March 30, two days after go-it-alone “Black Jack” Pershing had finally agreed to shore up the front with American troops.

On April 4, Ludendorff called on fresh reserves to resume the advance, this time turning toward Amiens, “the hinge of the Allies’ front,” where Jules Verne used to write his 19th-century science-fiction novels. The Germans had occupied this town for 11 days in August-September 1914, and with their customary humanitarianism took local officials hostage. At some point before or after, the locals fortified their cathedral’s ancient treasures with 2,200 sandbags. As for other prizes, Robert Graves remembers a “Blue Lamp” brothel for officers and a “Red Lamp” for enlisted men.

In this centennial year 2018, massive photo-enlargements of Great War soldiers, some in the beekeeper-esque gas masks of the period, most of them young, grim and handsome, stared down from the walls of the train station and the department stores and apartment buildings all around the cathedral square.

The first attempt to take Amiens began on March 27. (The reader is reminded that the dates of battles, offensives, et cetera vary extremely according to source. I have done my shallow best to rationalize these inconsistencies.) Ludendorff’s troops penetrated the Allied front southward of the Somme River, ten miles from the city. The Germans were driven back, but continued to shell Amiens until June. According to a Michelin Guide from that time, “ruins accumulated in the town and suburbs,” but a hundred years later, those ruins had been nicely smoothed over.

On April 9 the Germans won another local success at Armentières—at which point the French and British, as ever, began to dig in. General Haig was worried enough to warn, with uncharacteristic gloom, “With our backs to the wall and believing in the justice of our cause each one of us must fight on to the end.”

Finally the anxious Allies began to coordinate their efforts better, and appointed the French Marshal Ferdinand Foch Supreme Allied Commander over their joint forces.

5

By now the Kaiser’s troops had reached the town of Villers-Bretonneux, a “Franco-British junction” some ten miles from Amiens. Two Australian brigades stopped them, but 20 days later, employing tanks and gas, the Germans succeeded. As Sylvestre Bresson, my guide, tells the tale, “The Allies now found themselves in trouble, for Villers-Bretonneux was the last defensive bulwark on the Amiens road. The following night, the Australian battalions led a magnificent headlong attack,” which ultimately repelled the invaders. In a “2018 special edition” commemorative pamphlet published by the Communes of the Somme Valley, this organization’s president wrote: “Let’s never forget Australia.”

The memorial to the victors (1,200 of whom died on that night) lies not far from a little roadside sign marking the place where the “Red Baron” Manfred von Richthofen, Germany’s ace fighter pilot, was shot dead on April 21, 1918. Beneath the sign I saw a styrofoam “100” and some fake flowers left by Australians; this I knew because my taxi driver, whose family hailed from the west, had chauffeured them out here just a few days before. He had never heard of this site until then. He had grandparents in the Resistance, in the Second World War, but as for the First World War, that was too long a time ago, he remarked, flashing one tanned skinny arm away from the steering wheel.

“People around here don’t even talk about it very much,” he said of the Great War. He thought that I and my sister, who had accompanied me on this trip and served, when needed, as my French translator, were Australians. “Every family from Australia has some question about the war,” he remarked.

At the Villers-Bretonneux Military Cemetery and Memorial roses bloomed on a rolling hill-crest sowed with tombstones. The inscriptions were more personalized than many, DEARLY LOVED SON being in frequent evidence. This complex was inaugurated in 1938, just in time to be shot up in the next war—or, as a plaque explained, “on the firing line.” (The culprit was a Nazi tank.) There was a grand tower erected TO THE GLORY OF GOD AND IN MEMORY OF THE AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE IN FRANCE AND FLANDERS 1916-1918 AND OF ELEVEN THOUSAND WHO FELL IN FRANCE AND HAVE NO KNOWN GRAVE.

Had they all been properly cataloged, would it have been any better for them? For a fact, their survivors might have gained what we now call “closure,” although one question does arise: How much information about the fallen is too much?

“I do a lot of research for the families when they come,” Bresson told me. “Sometimes the stories told in the families are different from the truth, thanks to embellishment, exaggeration, and after one, two or three generations especially. But the archives tell the truth.

“A couple of years ago I had a tour with a couple from Australia. They wanted to visit the grave of a great-uncle. Before they came they gave us the name and I was able to find a lot of information about the great-uncle. But he wasn’t killed in action. He was killed in a stupid accident. He was at rest with his regiment and he was shooting ducks with one of his friends and his friend shot him by accident. It was literally written killed shooting ducks by accident.

“So on the day of the tour I met them and the story they knew was: He was killed on the battlefield, killed by German snipers when crawling under the barbed wire. Well, they were very moved to come. We went to the cemetery and left flowers there, and I told them they could get more information. I did not tell them directly. They were coming from the other side of the world.”

In one of ever so many rows in that cemetery, beneath the emblem of the Australian Imperial Forces, lay 6733 PRIVATE H. J. GIBB 14TH BN. AUSTRALIAN INF. 7TH JUNE 1918 AGE 45, and after a cross came the motto that someone had chosen for him: PEACE AFTER STRIFE. Whatever the circumstances of that untimely death, whether he had bravely held a position, saved a comrade, bayoneted three Germans or died while shooting ducks, untimely it was, and I felt sorry.

6

The Germans, having been frustrated at Amiens (but never mind: they would break through on a June day in 1940), swung toward Paris, eventually coming within 37 miles of the city. They had drilled a deep salient into French and British lines, but it wasn’t enough. The historian Gordon Craig writes that the German offensive “was bound to be disastrous after the enemy had recovered,” and that indeed it “degenerated by June into a series of separate thrusts, uncoordinated and unproductive.”

Declining to give up, Ludendorff’s troops commenced Operation Blücher, assisted by almost 4,000 Krupp guns, shelling and shattering the French Sixth Army. Unfortunately for the Germans, their newest enemy was now in the field. The day after Blücher began, the Americans counterattacked. The U.S. First Infantry captured 200 Germans and buried 199 Americans, and immediately won a victory in the village of Cantigny.

At observation post “Pennsylvania,” First Lt. Daniel Sargent of the 5th Field Artillery Regiment reported, “The ground was pounded to dust by our shells—all that was visible was the heavy smoke.” The division’s commander, Gen. Robert Lee Bullard, called this “the first serious fight made by American troops in France,” which was “greeted enthusiastically as a wonderful success.” Why not? There were lots of corpses. As a certain Captain Austin wrote home: “When the wind is right you can smell Cantigny two miles away.”

7

For Ludendorff this “wonderful success” must have been an incitement to hurry up. On the first day of Blücher his troops gained 13 miles, unheard of in the former static years. Having crossed the Vesle, they took Soissons—although they now kept facing more tank attacks. “Just think a moment!” cried Guderian, wisening up. “Five tanks with crews amounting to ten men had been able to reduce an entire division to disorder.”

By June 4, with 30 miles now to their credit, they had reached the Marne at Château-Thierry. What must they have felt upon finding themselves back where they had been in 1914? But that was the way of the Great War: Fight and die along static lines. Then do it all over. Thus July’s offering: the Second Battle of the Marne. The Oxford Companion to Military History remarks: “Just as the Marne had proved the high water mark of German success in 1914, so it did in 1918.”

Happily unaware of how their offensive would play out, the Germans still imagined themselves on course for the capital. To and fro in the trenches rushed that busy dispatch runner Adolf Hitler. But now the French rushed up tanks, accompanied by rapid mobile truckloads of infantry. As the American Battle Monuments Commission told it: “Responding to urgent pleas from the French, Pershing ordered the American 2nd and 3rd Divisions into the line in relief of the French Sixth Army.”

8

“Nothing on earth,” wrote infantryman Percy Clare of Britain’s 7th East Surrey Regiment, “is as melancholy as a journey over a recently-fought battlefield, especially on the day of action....The lust of killing has burned out...Here is a young Second Lieutenant on his back....the jagged ends of his thigh bones protruding through his torn breeches. No, he felt no pain. Sticking from his pocket is a letter to a woman.” That diary entry dates back to the Battle of Arras, in April 1917. Comparable horrors filled Château-Thierry 13 months later.

A century after that, the melancholy kept everywhere green. Here at the bank of the gentle gray-green Marne, where white swans were floating and very occasionally ducking in their heads, I looked across the water to houses, apartments and industrial edifices, once more hardly able to feel that the war had come here. The river was barely swirling. It appeared an easy swim to the other side of town.

Beside me stood an inconspicuous waist-high granite marker erected in 1921: a tapering plinth with a helmet on top. One of many fashioned by the sculptor Paul Moreau-Vauthier, it marked the limit of the enemy advance. There had been a whole line of these memory stones. In 1940, when the Germans returned thanks to Hitler, certain German commanders chose to remove them entirely. Others, evidently proud of what the kaiser’s troops had accomplished in the Great War, left them but erased the inscriptions.

When I came upon the Château-Thierry American monument, a white stone colonnaded edifice honoring the American divisions that helped repel the German advance, it felt just like coming home, for here alone of all the Western Front sites I visited the entrant had to empty his pockets and pass through a metal detector. As they say, freedom isn’t free.

Myself, I preferred the simpler, sadder truth of the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery. Summer green, summer clouds, so many birds. Driving up a long avenue lined with rosebushes, we met a blue-capped gardener who was breaking out a lawn mower. From the burial registry in the Visitors’ Room, I chose for remembrance Plot A Row 3 Grave 72, the grave where lay Edmond P Maes, Private, from Massachusetts. He served in the 101st Field Artillery Regiment, 26th Division, and fell on 23 July 1918.

Lines of marble crosses curved in parallels on the rich green grass, wrapping around a hill of dark green forest. The pigeons were calling, the lawn mower droning far away. Overlooking the graves was a chapel (slightly scarred by the following world war) whose walls were engraved with the names of the missing. Once in a great while there would be a rosette made to the left of the name of someone who was “found,” such as LUPO FRANCIS PVT 18th INF 1st DIV July 21 1918 Ohio.

In a poem from the month when the slaughter finally stopped, the decorated British soldier Siegfried Sassoon advised his British readers, “when you are standing at your hero’s grave,” to remember “the German soldiers who were loyal and brave.” I asked to see a cemetery of our former enemies. “The German cemeteries are different,” explained Bresson. “There was a strong animosity toward them, so in that time the German cemeteries were always set away, on a back road, whereas our cemeteries were set on the top of the hill so they can be seen from miles away. From the German perspective the First and Second World Wars are so linked, like one war. The Germans still feel ashamed of what they did to the Jews, so they don’t have any motivation to visit their soldiers.”

Indeed the nearby German cemetery was discrete, out of sight from the victors’ graves, and instead of white, the crosses, thicker-armed than ours, were gray (in some cemeteries they were black). I saw a very few oval-tipped slabs with the Jewish star, as for Fritz Stern, grenadier. (As a special reward for their service in the Great War, the Nazis would deport some Jewish veterans in passenger train carriages rather than freight cars, their destination of course being the same as for the others.)

Not far away stood a cross for Unteroffizier Peter Latour and Infanterist Ulrich Lederer and on the other side Ein unbekannter Deutscher Soldat (an unknown German soldier) and for Vizefeldwebel Franz Stiefvater—yes, four men buried under one cross. In this soil lay 8,630 bodies. In the sprawling American cemetery adjacent there were not quite 2,300.

Leafing through the visitors’ book, my sister discovered that an American with a military affiliation (I will not give his name) had made a fingerprint in what appeared to be real blood, and left a sneering English-language inscription.

9

A German attack of July 14 was hopefully named the Sieggesturm, or “Turn of Victory,” but Ludendorff was fresh out of victories. The next day he launched his final offensive, aiming at Reims. Three days after that, Generals Foch and Pétain counterattacked on the Marne, close by Villers-Cotterêts—by surprise, with tanks again, and to good effect.

July 18 marked the beginning of Marshal Foch’s counteroffensive. “Although the Germans fought stubbornly to the end, they were henceforth always on the defensive,” recalled Lt. John Clark, an American eyewitness to the battle for Soissons.

On August 8 came what Ludendorff would call “the black day of the German Army,” when he realized “the war must be ended.” By then a British tank brigade had helped reduce the German-held stronghold of Moreuil. One British major took a spin “in one of those huge armoured cars, and found it most disagreeably hot; but I felt a sense of delightful security when I heard the bullets rattling against the steel walls.”

Now began the Battle of Amiens: Australians, Canadians, French and British all fighting together. General Haig commenced with a tank attack 20 miles wide and 456 (or if you like 552) metal monsters thick; he achieved utter surprise. German casualties may have been three times the Allied ones. In his memoirs, Guderian wrote: “Even now old-timers like us relive that feeling of impending doom which overtook us on that day in August.”

On August 21 the British drove toward Bapaume and Albert, reducing both; on September 1 Péronne fell to the Australians. How would all this captured territory have appeared in early autumn 1918? “Deserted,” recalled Capt. C.N. Littleboy, a British commander of the Sherwood Foresters. “Bleak, devastated.” Continuing eastward, Littleboy saw “a derelict Tank, a dead horse, a rifle stuck upright in the ground.”

In 2018, driving over this same sad old Somme country, I thought the rolling hills and sky could almost have been somewhere in eastern Washington State, maybe around Pullman. We ascended what appeared to be the curvature of the earth itself, everything gently, evenly falling off; here came Morlancourt; we kept on Highway D42; then ahead stood three trees, to guard the edge of the world.

10

The shelling of Paris finally ended on August 9.

On September 14, after continued Allied gains, the Austrians sent a peace note. Five days later, the Turkish front collapsed in Palestine. On the 21st, the Croatians hung out their flag. On the 24th, the Hungarians rose up and called for independence from Austria. On the 28th, Bulgaria fell. A day after that, Ludendorff had a “fit”—perhaps a minor stroke.

Now at last Marshal Foch called for a coordinated series of assaults upon the creaking Hindenburg Line: on September 26 in the Meuse-Argonne Forest, the Americans with 411 tanks and the French with 654; on the 27th, the British, launching the Second Battle of Cambrai (they would take their objective on the 9th); on the 28th, the Belgians in Flanders, on the 29th, more French and British attacks.

The Meuse-Argonne Offensive, fought by Pershing’s First Army under Foch’s overall coordination, was intended to breach the Hindenburg Line westward of Verdun. One history calls it “the biggest logistical undertaking in the history of the U.S. Army, before or since.”

Six French divisions assisted 22 American infantry divisions, most of which had not yet proven themselves in battle. (By the end, more than 90 Allied divisions participated in the fight.) “The Germans,” the previous source continues, “had created four successive, mutually supporting defensive lines, linked by trenches and interlocking arcs of fire.”

The attack began at 5:30 in the morning on September 26. Its logical result was the Meuse-Argonne American Cemetery, the most populated American necropolis in Europe, with 14,246 burials. Which should I single out? In one row of marbled crosses on a field walled in by trees, accompanied by another field of crosses and then more of the same, HERE RESTS IN HONORED GLORY AN AMERICAN SOLDIER KNOWN BUT TO GOD—though never to his hoping, wondering, finally despairing family, who when I read this inscription in 2018 must have all gone underground themselves.

The U.S. 35th Division managed to take that ghastly old concretion of trench-line stasis, Vauquois, bombarding, machine-gunning and gassing the Germans while overrunning them from behind, and even continuing another 1.5 miles north-northwest, toward Varennes and Cheppy. Yes, they broke that horror and hurried on.

But now, when from a prominence of fossilized sandbags at Vauquois I gaze down into a steep narrow dugout connected to a tunnel, a beech tree outgrasping from the top and a cloud of midges expanding above my head, it seems the nightmare remains. In the grass around me, crowded by trees with singing birds, in dugouts with their side tunnels going who knows where, how much human craft, cunningly, maliciously employed to maim and murder still lies ready to harm? Yet I feel grateful that this is so. Here is one of the Great War’s most accurate monuments.

At Cheppy, where there is now a Missouri Memorial, the 35th Division, assisted by Col. George S. Patton’s 304th Tank Brigade (Patton was wounded here), smashed through the Hindenburg Line. Varennes, where in 1791 Louis XVI and his family were captured in their coach, fell to the Americans by about 2 p.m., with the help of infantry, Renault tanks and the 28th National Guard Division, known as the Pennsylvanians.

Hence the Pennsylvania Monument, a courtyardlike structure of white stone and concrete with a dark bell on an eagle-cornered plinth. Its motto runs: THE RIGHT IS MORE PRECIOUS THAN PEACE. It’s a very pretty monument. Had I fought in the 28th, or wished to show appreciation for its men, I would doubtless be pleased. As it is, my preference on war memorials is this: Give me an honest graveyard anytime. Or give me that foul, barbed-wire-toothed hole in the ground, Vauquois. I don’t want any sentiments.

11

At the beginning of the war, taking and holding territory up to the Meuse River involved “the toughest fighting” faced by Germany’s northern armies. Now defending that ground against the advancing Allies, Ludendorff tried to return the favor. On September 27-28 he reinforced the sector with artillery and 20 new divisions. (Meanwhile he and Hindenburg informed the kaiser that it was most definitely time for an armistice.)

In 2018 a car carried me smoothly across the Meuse, which from the bridge appeared as flat and reflective as a pond. Time, work and capital had smoothed out this place—twice. Doubtless there were relics to find not far off the road. American losses here had been horrendous, inciting brutal adaptations. For example, it cost “several thousand casualties” for one division to reduce Côte Dame Marie, “a central strongpoint of the Kriemhilde Stellung.” And so we read of “squirrel squads” a hundred yards behind the first wave, to shoot snipers in the trees; of soldiers who bayoneted each German corpse to make sure it wasn’t faking death.

The historian Edward Lengel describes what happened when a certain Major General Morton sent the 116th Regiment against “the worst death trap east of the Meuse,” meeting German machine guns, artillery and the new Fokker strafing planes: The heavy casualties “seemed to indicate that a change of tactics was in order, but Morton could think of only three solutions—more artillery, more men, and greater drive.”

Pershing, his drive temporarily stalled, resumed the attack on October 4, fighting “hard.” On October 29, the enemy withdrew finally to the west bank of the Meuse—yet another victory for all time. (Hitler’s troops would return exactly there in 1940.)

All told, 1.2 million American soldiers suffered 122,000 casualties from the beginning of the offensive to the armistice. For me, at least, this detail casts a certain chill on the following sententious words from a book about the offensive: “Midwestern farm boys had become men. Men had become soldiers. And soldiers had become comrades.” Well, they were all comrades here, for a fact. Had their war actually ended all wars, their deaths would have felt less futile to me.

But let’s be cheerful: Back when the War would surely end all wars, the Allies broke through at Salonika, finally defeating the Bulgarians, and the Italians penetrated the Austrian lines.

On October 26, Ludendorff, who wished to fight on, discovered that his resignation had been accepted. On October 30 the kaiser, laying the groundwork for a narrative about a leftist-Jewish plot, said: “I would not dream of abandoning the throne because of a few hundred Jews and a thousand workers.” He now got an even nastier shock than Ludendorff, being forced to flee that crude, cramped old wooden crown with its ribs like the remnant of a dissected onion and the squat cross on top. He lived in the Netherlands until his death in 1941—just long enough to enjoy a German honor guard posted outside his moated residence.

12

On November 1, the Germans fell back to their final position on the Hindenburg Line. On November 6, the Allies finally reduced Sedan, and sometime that month the Americans liberated Verdun!

And so finally came the armistice: November 11, 1918.

The event certainly deserves a celebratory citation. Here it is, courtesy of Cpl. Harold Pierce, 28th Division, Second Army: “It seems so foolish to keep up the killing till the last minute. But the killing the artillery does is so impersonal and miles away. He [sic] cannot see the tortured, horrible looks of the slaughtered or feel the remorse the doughboy feels when he sees a man he has shot.”

* * *

THE HARVEST

1

What brought about the happy victory? Shall we be reductionist? We could thank General Haig for attrition, or say “hurrah” to the Americans, or praise Marshal Foch’s unifying command, or speak of technical developments, organizational learning, accidents. We all center the world around our own preoccupations. Lawrence of Arabia for his part asserted that “when Damascus fell, the Eastern War—probably the whole war—drew to an end.” My own taste is drawn to Weapons and Tactics’ particular simplification: “In 1918 tanks won a great war.”

What then did the Great War accomplish? At least 8.5 million belligerents died, not to mention a mere 12 million or 13 million civilians. Some optimist somewhere must have pointed out that it kept the population down. The survivors had their own difficulties. In the words of All Quiet on the Western Front, “The war has ruined us for everything.”

Am I too cynical about this war? In October 1918, a Croatian insurrectionist cried out: “The people rise in order to deliver freedom with their blood and over the whole world Wilson’s principles enjoy victory.” An independent Czechoslovakia came into being that same month; soon after, a free Poland. But in these nations, and likewise in the “new Romania swollen with ex-Hungarian territory,” one-third of the people were deemed ethnically “other.” (One result: continuing hatreds and atrocities.)

A hundred years later, Croatia had flickered through bygone Yugoslavia; Czechoslovakia had split; Poland, Hungary and Romania had gone in and out of bondage, altered shape and begun to swell with right-wing nationalisms. I see no guarantee of stability in their respective futures; in their pasts I cannot avoid seeing the Great War’s heirs, Hitler and Stalin.

2

The victors did everything possible to prevent German rearmament. They did not stop there. Churchill, acknowledging that “the mortal need was Security at all costs and by all methods,” still called certain terms of the Treaty of Versailles “malignant and silly....Nothing was reaped except ill-will.”

It is human nature to demand vengeance for the killings of one’s own, and the provocations of Germany’s ruthlessness approached intolerability. The British diplomat Harold Nicholson reminds us that shortly after commencing peace negotiations with President Wilson, the Germans torpedoed the Irish mail boat Leinster, drowning more than 450 civilians. “This eleventh hour atrocity was fresh in people’s minds,” writes Nicholson. A month after the armistice, prominent British newspapers were calling for the kaiser’s execution. Yet whatever its causes and excuses, the Treaty of Versailles, signed in 1919, was not diplomacy’s finest hour. “The historian, with every justification, will come to the conclusion that we were very stupid men,” Nicholson remarks. “I think we were.”

Possibly worst of all was the treaty’s infamous Article 231, the so-called War Guilt Clause, which made Germany accept all the blame. As late as 2001, Gary Sheffield insisted, “The German leadership wanted hegemony in Europe, and was prepared to go to war to achieve it.” And so the War Guilt Clause “was, therefore, fundamentally correct.” Whether or not that was so (what about Austria-Hungary?), it was certainly impolitic. For his part, Hitler in his speeches hammered away at the treaty and the traitorous Germans who had agreed to it. “You felt like dashing your head against the wall in despair over such people! They did not want to understand that Versailles was a shame and a disgrace.” (Well, he sure straightened them out.)

Guderian, plausibly believing the Treaty of Versailles as being “conceived in a spirit of hate,” was one of those who illicitly defied it. Lacking the opportunity to peer inside a tank before 1928, he made do with ersatz, drilling for the next war with tractors. “With this machine we essayed our tank company tactics,” he wrote in his magnum opus, Achtung-Panzer!

He was on the spot in May 1940, urging Hitler to rush armored tank divisions back across the Meuse ahead of infantry and artillery. Over ground that had so recently sucked down the blood of General Pershing’s soldiers drove the new “lightning war”—the Blitzkrieg. As in Schlieffen’s day, the watchword was haste. There was so much to do: liquidate hostages and Jews in Poland, prepare to invade England, then turn against the gullible Russian ally.

The First World War would be done over. The French were stunned. The Parisian filmmaker Ludovic Cantais, who had three great-uncles die in the First World War and a grandfather who lost an eye fighting it but gained a lifelong alcohol problem, told me: “The Second World War, it was not even like a war for the French—it was so quick.” What he said next was particularly thought-provoking, because I had read so much about the allegedly self-deluded “appeasement” of Hitler by the Western democracies in 1938-39. Hindsight’s prophets loved to point out that resisting Hitler early could have saved lives and treasure.

Cantais said, “The First World War traumatized people so much. That was why they absolutely did not want to go to fight Hitler; they were so traumatized. The generation of 1914 was decimated, so they did not want to go. The conditions in the trenches were really sordid. There were rats, disease, fear. These young men, who had just started their own families, they came back crazy because of these crazy conditions they had lived in.”

On June 22, 1940, Hitler, having taken France in six weeks behind Guderian’s Panzer tank divisions and strafing aircraft, forced the French to sign a humiliating armistice in Marshal Foch’s old railroad carriage, the very same one in which the armistice of 1918 had been signed, right there in the bucolic Compiègne Forest.

It may well be that no war is ever over. My French interviewees expressed horror when I asked when the next war with Germany might occur. But our species’ abominable record suggests that sometime in the next 800 or even 200 years (if human beings persist on this earth so long) there will be another one, at which time the iron ghosts of the trenches will come shrieking back.

====== 146 ========

HOW A CHANGING CLIMATE MAY HAVE KILLED OFF THE MARSUPIAL LION

Deep in the Australian Outback, the locals will tell you, a legendary beast roams the bush, preying on the unprepared and the unawares. This mythical creature, the drop bear, is a ravenous variant of the koala that has developed a taste for flesh rather than leaves. And while the drop bear itself doesn’t exist, it does have a real-life counterpart in a predatory marsupial of the past.

Over 46,000 years ago, Australia was home to Thylacoleo, a distant cousin of wombats, kangaroos and other marsupials. But unique among this subclass of mammals, Thylacoleo preyed on other animals for its food, and so paleontologists know the ancient creature as the “marsupial lion.”

But why doesn’t this impressive carnivore still prowl the Australian wilds? A new analysis of the predator’s teeth, carried out by Vanderbilt University paleontologist Larisa DeSantis and presented at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology annual meeting last month, offers some new clues.

“The initial aim of this study was to figure out the paleobiology of this animal,” DeSantis says. Despite being known to scientists since 1859 and having various studies of its anatomy carried out, relatively little is known about how this predator hunted, ate its prey and otherwise interacted with its surrounding environment. It turns out, the marsupial lion’s teeth were key to solving some of these mysteries.

The cheek teeth of Thylacoleo are very distinctive. They are more square than triangular, having the appearance of meat cleavers that slid past each other to shear through flesh. Pits and scratches on the teeth, called microwear, are tied to different foods and feeding behaviors that can help narrow down the animal's diet. DeSantis also looked at stable isotope signatures—a version of “you are what you eat,” DeSantis says, in which chemical signatures from particular food sources get taken up and preserved in tissues like teeth and bone.

It turns out that Thylacoleo lived up to its name. The microwear on the analyzed fossil teeth showed damage patterns most similar to modern-day lions. Translating this to diet, it means that Thylacoleo didn’t avoid chewing on bone as assiduously as cheetahs do, but it wasn’t a bone-crusher like the spotted hyena. Thylacoleo came out somewhere in between, mostly preferring to feed on flesh but sometimes chewing on—or through—the bones of its prey.

“People tended to see it as ‘big, bad carnivore, can eat anything it wants,’” says Brown University paleontologist Christine Janis . “This analysis confirms that it was more of a selective meat eater, and probably not much of a scavenger.”

Based upon the isotope data and other lines of evidence, such as where Thylacoleo bones have been found with other fossils, DeSantis also hypothesizes that this carnivore was an ambush predator that preferred relatively wooded environments, offering plenty of cover. In the old forests of Australia, Thylacoleo could stalk ancient, giant kangaroos like Protemnodon .

The trouble for the predator all started when climate change altered the local habitat. What drove some of Australia’s megafauna to extinction is a fiercely-debated question (just as it is with Ice Age extinctions elsewhere around the world). Some experts place the blame on newly-arrived humans, who hunted and used fire to clear the landscape, killing off many large and iconic species. Others point to climate change, noting dramatic shifts that, in this case, made Australia much more arid and denuded forests that many species relied upon.

If DeSantis and her team are correct that Thylacoleo relied on the forest for cover to stalk its prey, then the desertification of Australia would have stripped away the marsupial lion’s cover, leading to its demise.

“I think that climate is more important than people have been thinking. The extreme aridity of present-day Australia is probably relatively recent,” Janis says. More desert-like conditions altered Australia from about 300,000 years ago onward.

Given what we now know about the diet of Thylacoleo and its preferred habitat, harsh climate shifts made all the difference for this carnivore. “It’s an ambush hunter, it’s eating prey from these forests, it’s postcranial anatomy indicates it’s pouncing from trees or some sort of cover,” DeSantis says, and the loss of forest cover would have directly affected this carnivore’s ability to pounce upon its preferred prey, not to mention that there would be less prey to stalk in these environments. “With aridification, this animal was particularly vulnerable to extinction,” DeSantis says.

The tale of this lost predator may have lessons for today, as dramatic climate shifts driven by humans continue to alter habitats around the world. Thylacoleo, the real drop bear of history, likely won't be the last apex hunter to fall along with its environment.

====== 147 ========

NASA WILL ATTEMPT ITS EIGHTH MARS LANDING IN ONE WEEK

InSight is barreling in for a landing on Mars. The spacecraft will make its approach and landing next week via a tried and true method, but even though NASA has pulled this stunt before, dozens of things need to go exactly right during entry, descent, and landing (EDL) for InSight to arrive safely on the surface of the Red Planet.

At 2:47 p.m. EST on November 26, the InSight lander will hit the top of the Martian atmosphere, about 125 kilometers (70 miles) above the surface, traveling at 5.5 kilometers per second (12,000 mph). The craft’s ablative silica heat shield will rise to a temperature of more than 1,500 degrees Celsius—hot enough to melt steel. About three and a half minutes after atmospheric entry, the spacecraft will still be hurtling toward the ground at supersonic speeds. A parachute will deploy to decelerate as much as possible, the heat shield will jettison, and the spacecraft will start looking for the ground with a radar. About six minutes after hitting the atmosphere, the lander will separate from its back shell—still traveling about 180 mph—and fire its retro rockets to bring it the rest of the way home, touching down roughly a minute later.

If everything goes right—while engineers monitor control screens during the “seven minutes of terror,” unable to steer the distant craft in real time—InSight will come to rest in Elysium Planitia on the Monday after Thanksgiving and prepare to begin studying the seismology and internal heat of Mars. NASA can take comfort in the fact that such landings have succeeded in the past, but when you are attempting to land a craft millions of miles away, it’s impossible to prepare for every eventuality.

Whenever a Mars landing approaches, space fans get an earful of statistics. Before Curiosity’s landing, “more than half of all Mars missions have failed.” Before Europe’s ExoMars’ launch, “more missions have failed than not: 28 flops compared to 19 successes." After the ExoMars orbiter succeeded, but its lander did not (at least, not entirely): “Of the about a dozen robotic lander and rover missions launched to Mars, only seven have succeeded.”

The statistics are dramatic, but the story they tell is a little dated. There was a spectacular run of failures in the latter part of the 20th century—Mars 96, Mars Observer, Mars Climate Orbiter and Mars Polar Lander’s losses still sting. But while Russia has never achieved a complete success at Mars, NASA, the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) have all pretty much nailed orbital insertions at Mars since Y2K. China, India and Japan have their second Mars-bound missions in the works, and the United Arab Emirates is planning their first, not to mention the ambitions of several private entities.

Mars orbit insertions have become relatively routine in the 21st century, but Mars landings are still some of the most difficult deep-space missions ever attempted. ESA’s two successful orbiters both included tiny landers that were never heard from after touchdown, though ExoMars’ Schiaparelli lander returned data nearly all the way to the surface.

Three things make a Mars landing much more difficult than a moon landing—or an Earth landing, for that matter. First, unlike the moon, Mars is too far away for any ground-bound human to be in the loop during a landing attempt. The time it takes for a signal to travel from Mars to Earth and back is never less than nine minutes and is usually much longer, so by the time we can hear and respond to a signal that our spacecraft has hit the top of the atmosphere, the end result, one way or another, has already occurred.

The second problem is Mars’ atmosphere. There is both too much and too little. On Earth, when astronauts and sample capsules return from space, we can protect spacecraft behind heat shields and use the friction of atmospheric entry to slow the hypersonic craft to subsonic speeds. Once the flamey part is over, we can simply pop out a parachute to further reduce the velocity and drift to a gentle (or, at least, survivable) touchdown on land or water.

Mars’ atmosphere is thick enough to generate a fiery entry, requiring a heat shield, but it’s too thin for a parachute alone to slow an entering spacecraft to a safe landing speed. When Curiosity hit the top of Mars’ atmosphere in 2012, it was traveling at 5.8 kilometers per second (13,000 mph). When the heat shield had done all it could do, the spacecraft was still hurtling toward the ground at 400 meters per second (895 mph). Curiosity’s parachute could, and did, slow it down, but only to 80 meters per second (179 mph). Hitting the ground at that speed is not survivable, even for a robot.

On an airless world like the moon, heat shields are not required and parachutes do you no good. But fear not, we’ve had the technology for lunar landings since the 1960s: take some rockets and point them downward, canceling out the craft’s velocity.

The atmosphere makes things a little trickier on Mars, though. With moving air as an additional factor, unpredictable winds can add an equally unpredictable horizontal velocity to a descending spacecraft. For this reason, landing regions on Mars are required to have low regional slopes. High horizontal winds plus high slopes could put a lander much farther from, or closer to, the ground than it expects—and either situation could spell disaster.

So a Mars lander needs three technologies to reach the surface: a heat shield, a supersonically deployable parachute and retrorockets. The Viking missions to Mars in the mid-1970s prepared by test-launching parachutes on suborbital rockets to verify that they could inflate without shredding at faster-than-sound speeds. All successful Mars landings since then (all of them NASA’s) have relied on parachutes with Viking legacy. Recently, NASA has worked on a new effort to develop deceleration technologies able to land spacecraft heavier than the Viking probes—an effort that was not, initially, successful, resulting in catastrophically shredded parachutes. (More recent tests have worked better.)

Keeping all of this in mind, what do we know about what went wrong for recently failed Mars landers? For two of them—Mars Polar Lander and Beagle 2—we can only speculate. The spacecraft had no ability to transmit real-time telemetry data as they descended. The Mars Polar Lander failure taught NASA an important lesson: If we are to learn anything from our failures, we have to collect as much data as we can up to the point of failure. Ever since the Mars Polar Lander crashed into the surface at the end of 1999, every Mars lander except ESA’s Beagle 2 has transmitted data to an orbiter that recorded raw radio signals for future analysis in the event of failure.

These days, there are many orbiters at Mars, so we can do even better than that. There’s always one orbiter listening to and recording every last bit of radio signal from a lander, just in case of disaster. And there’s usually a secondary orbiter that doesn’t just listen to the signal, but decodes it and relays the information to Earth as fast as the slow travel of light will allow. This “bent-pipe” data transmission has given us the adrenaline-laced, real-time picture of Mars landing attempts.

When InSight lands, it will fall to the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter to record telemetry for future dissection if the attempt fails. To get real-time data of the landing, however, InSight has brought along two little spacefaring companions: the MarCO CubeSats, each only about three feet long. The Mars Cube One spacecraft are the first-ever interplanetary CubeSats. If the craft succeed, the world will get its real-time reports on InSight’s landing, and the little space robots will pave the way for future, tinier, cheaper trips to Mars.

But for now, all eyes are on InSight. NASA has successfully landed on Mars seven times, and before the month is out, the space agency is going to try to make it eight.

Emily Lakdawalla is a planetary evangelist at The Planetary Society and the editor of the society’s quarterly publication, The Planetary Report. Her new book is The Design and Engineering of Curiosity: How the Mars Rover Performs Its Job.

====== 148 ========

WHY A NEW ROBIN HOOD ARISES EVERY GENERATION

Folklore comes from the folk, which is why “robbing the rich to give to the poor” is a motif that has endured for centuries in the imagination of the people. When it comes to the redistribution of wealth in ballad and legend, heroes never rob from the poor to further enhance the fortunes of the rich.

The most recent illustration of this principle arrives in movie theaters on the day before Thanksgiving. Directed by Otto Bathurst, Robin Hood stars Taron Egerton in the title role, with Jamie Foxx as Little John, Ben Mendelsohn as the Sheriff of Nottingham and Eve Hewson as Marian.

The 2018 film version uses new digital technologies in many of the action sequences, but employs much of the same traditional folklore in casting Robin as the quintessential social bandit righting injustice by robbing from the rich and giving to the poor.

As the new blockbuster film settles into nationwide circulation, I went in search of the deep roots of the hero Robin Hood in archival records and folklore references. Assisted by Michael Sheridan, an intern serving at the Smithsonian’s Center for Folklore and Cultural Heritage, it soon become clear that in times of economic downturns, in times of tyranny and oppression, and in times of political upheaval, the hero Robin Hood makes his timely call.

We do not know if there ever was an actual Robin Hood in medieval England, or if the name simply attached itself to various outlaws in the 13th century. It is not until the late 14th century—in the narrative poem Piers Ploughman by William Langland—that references to rhymes about Robin Hood appear.

I kan noght parfitly my Paternoster as the preest it syngeth, But I kan rymes of Robyn Hood and Randolf Erl of Chestre, Ac neither of Oure Lord ne of Oure Lady the leest that evere was maked.



According to a timeline assembled by Stephen Winick at the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress, stories about Robin Hood continued to circulate for the next several centuries, gradually taking on many of the details that are familiar today: Robin as a “good” outlaw, according to Andrew of Wyntoun’s Orygynale Chronicle (ca. 1420); Robin living in Sherwood Forest, according to the ballad “Robin Hood and the Monk” (ca. 1450); Robin robbing the rich and giving to the poor, according to John Major’s History of Greater Britain (1521); and Robin as a noble earl, according to Richard Grafton’s Chronicle at Large (1569).

As these stories developed and spread, Robin became the quintessential “social bandit,” a term popularized in the late 20th century by the British historian Eric Hobsbawm. “Though a practice in social banditry,” he writes, “cannot clearly always be separated from other kinds of banditry, this does not affect the fundamental analysis of the social bandit as a special type of peasant protest and rebellion.” In other words, social bandits are not criminals, Hobsbawm maintains, but rather they are defenders of the honest folk against the evil forces of tyranny and corruption, especially during times of economic uncertainty. Moreover, Hobsbawm identified this as a worldwide phenomenon, including Balkan haiduks, Brazilian congaceiros, Indian dacoits, and Italian banditi.

Perhaps, what is most fascinating about Robin’s social banditry is how the folk tale has spread to certain outlaws in the United States, who (like the Robin Hood of the Middle Ages) are regarded as defenders of the folk. Take for instance, the tale A Gest of Robyn Hode, dating to around 1450, in which Robyn Hode aids a poor knight by loaning him 400 pounds so that the knight can pay an unscrupulous abbot. Robyn shortly thereafter recovers the money by robbing the abbot. Some 400 years later, a similar story is told about the American outlaw Jesse James (1847–1882) from Missouri, who is supposed to have given $800 (or $1,500 in some versions) to a poor widow, so that she can pay an unscrupulous banker trying to foreclose on her farm. Shortly thereafter Jesse robs the banker and recovers his money.

Jesse James rose to near celebrity stature in 1870s, active as a bank, train and stagecoach robber during a time of economic depression in the U.S., especially following the Panic of 1873. Twenty years later, the Panic of 1893 triggered another economic depression, out of which emerged Railroad Bill, an African-American Robin Hood whose specialty was robbing trains in southern Alabama.

The Great Depression of the 1930s saw a similar rise of other social bandits, who were often celebrated as Robin Hood hero figures. John Dillinger (1903–1934) from Indiana was seen as a crusader, fighting the enemies of the folk by robbing banks at a time when banks were known to collapse taking with them with their depositors’ savings and foreclosing mercilessly on home and farm mortgages. According to one oral history in the Folklore Archives at Indiana University, Dillinger became “a hero to the people, you know—kind of a Robin Hood. He would steal from the rich and give to the poor. . . . Everybody was poor then—we were in a depression, you see. Dillinger was poor. The only ones that were rich were the banks, and they were the ones who made everybody else poor.”

When Dillinger was killed by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation outside a movie theater in Chicago, the title of Public Enemy Number One went next to Charles “Pretty Boy” Floyd (1904–1934). Known as the “Oklahoma Robin Hood,” Floyd, according to Time magazine, was believed to be “always looking out for the little guy.”

“Rumors circulated that he had destroyed mortgage notes when he robbed banks, freeing struggling farmers from foreclosure.” One of Floyd’s fellow Oklahomans, Woody Guthrie, reaffirmed the Robin Hood legend with a ballad about Floyd helping the “starvin’ farmer” and “families on relief.”

Well, you say that I'm an outlaw,

You say that I'm a thief.

Here's a Christmas dinner

For the families on relief.

Contrasting the social bandit with white-collar criminals, Guthrie concluded, “some [men] will rob you with a six-gun, and some with a fountain pen.”

How and why Depression-era bandits like Dillinger and Floyd acquired their reputations as Robin Hoods must have been perplexing and frustrating for law enforcement officials. But many folklorists believe it’s partly a matter of circumstance—real-life bank robbers achieve renown during economic depression and partly also that the folk cannot resist creating new social bandits with traditional motifs in their own hard times.

The latter phenomenon may explain why social banditry is celebrated in nearly every film version made about Robin Hood, even when these films are produced by large Hollywood studios that may have more in common with the rich than with the poor.

Not much is known about the earliest such film, the 1908 Robin Hood and His Merry Men, but the first feature-length version, Robin Hood of 1922, following a sharp recession after World War I, was a spectacular success. Robin was played by Douglas Fairbanks, one of the most popular silent film stars, sometimes termed the “king of Hollywood,” who never walked on screen when he could leap and bound. His Robin good-naturedly relishes each new swordfight and opportunity to shoot arrows with great accuracy.

Errol Flynn, perhaps even more swashbuckling than Fairbanks with sword and longbow, played Robin next during the Great Depression in the 1938 The Adventures of Robin Hood, a Technicolor extravaganza that codified Robin as leader of a jolly band of bandits in Sherwood Forest, fighting passionately for truth and justice against unscrupulous noblemen who try to seize the English throne while King Richard the Lion-Heart is returning from the religious wars known as the Crusades.

These same elements have remained in nearly every film version since. Most notably for Sean Connery’s recession-era 1976 Robin and Marian, in which Robin returns to Sherwood Forest after the death of King Richard. Next, during the oil price shock economy for Kevin Costner’s 1991 Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, in which Robin fights against a conspiracy led by the Sheriff of Nottingham. And again, following the 2008 international banking crisis for Russell Crowe’s 2010 Robin Hood, in which Robin fights against a French conspiracy to invade England.

Theatergoers are no doubt in need of new Robin Hood folk hero in 2018. This year’s band of men and women in Sherwood Forest remain merry even as the evil forces of tyranny and corruption seek to marginalize them in 21st-century fashion.

====== 149 ========

THE WORLD’S FIRST SYNTHESIZER WAS A 200-TON BEHEMOTH

In 1893, Thaddeus Cahill, a Washington-based, 115-pound hyper-metabolic child prodigy whose business instincts matched his scientific acumen, realized that tones generated from an electric dynamo could simulate all of the qualities of instruments such as violins and pianos, and mechanically iron out their defects. He was influenced in his thinking by the German scientist Hermann von Helmholtz, whose 1862 book On The Sensations Of Tone had been translated into English in 1877.

Essentially, von Helmholtz showed that there was more to a musical note than was suggested by the seemingly irreducible black symbol written on a piece of paper; that it was made of component parts—harmonics—that created distinguishable “tone colors,” which were what distinguished different instruments playing the same note. This was vital knowledge to those, like Cahill, who were in the business of devising machines to synthesize sound. It brought music into the realms of science and engineering, opened it up as a potential palette rather than a mere notational system; the technicolor 20th century was at hand. Von Helmholtz himself even constructed a simple “synthesizer” to help illustrate his point. Moreover, with the invention of Alexander Graham Bell's telephone, Cahill envisaged that his instrument would have the power to replace entire orchestras and be broadcast telephonically across the country, bringing classical music and opera to the masses.

The name of Cahill’s instrument would be the Telharmonium, which would go through various versions, with its inner workings ensuring it weighed in at 200 tons. As Reynold Weidenaar wrote in his 1995 study Magic Music From The Telharmonium, “His guiding vision was twofold: a machine that could produce scientifically perfect tones, and absolute control of these tones to a mathematical certainty by mechanical means. Such fine control should allow the player to express all his spellbinding emotion with the surging power and intensity of a violinist — with as little mechanical impediment as possible. The tone should be sustained indefinitely, like an organ, but should yield willingly to the musician's touch with absolute sympathy and sensitivity. The instrument must of course retain the chord capacity of the piano or organ. Thus could the defects of the three great domesticated musical instruments — piano, organ, and violin — be consigned to oblivion.”

All of this would come at a cost, however — $200,000. And so, Cahill and his business partners put on a demonstration for a group of businessmen in Baltimore. He arranged for them to hear a performance of “Handel’s Largo,” played from Washington and broadcast by phone via a horn attached to the receiver. The gambit was successful and they agreed to put up $100,000 as a first installment for the license to distribute Telharmonic performances and construct the first commercial version of the instrument.

News of the Telharmonium spread, even across the Atlantic to Britain’s Lord Kelvin, whose scientific endeavors included an early attempt to determine the age of the planet earth. He invited Cahill to deliver a paper on the subject of the Telharmonium in London. Meanwhile, work began on the huge rotor mechanisms required to develop the instrument and create “tonal pigments” to simulate the sounds of orchestral instruments. Finally, in 1905 the Telharmonium was up and ready to be installed in New York, and for its sound to be broadcast to thousands of hotels, theatres and restaurants across the country. These establishments were only too keen for a musical broadcast system, having had to work with large human orchestras to supply discreet music to their patrons, not always very discreetly or inconspicuously.

Initial feedback and experience of the Telharmonium was mixed. There were complaints that its broadcasts were interfering with the telephone wires used for domestic calls. One man, it was said, had phoned his wife one evening to say he was working late at the office, only for the interfering, Telharmonium strains of “William Tell” to strike up on a crossed wire, convincing his angry spouse that he was making whoopee at some good-time joint. There were complaints too from the musicians about the immense difficulty in playing the instrument’s complex rig of keyboards, despite their supposed labor-saving properties. Meanwhile, orchestral musicians themselves naturally viewed the new machine with great suspicion, regarding it not unreasonably as a device to catapult them onto the breadline. Others found the sounds generated by the Telharmonium a touch . . . synthetic. They missed the authentic rasp of traditional instruments, whose “defects” they regarded as integral to their character.

Others, however, appreciated the unnaturally sweet, sonorous sounds produced by the Telharmonium, as well as being astonished by the sheer fact that they were attending to live sounds being broadcast from many miles away. Mark Twain, on hearing the Telharmonium declared, “The trouble about these beautiful, novel things is that they interfere so with one's arrangements. Every time I see or hear a new wonder like this I have to postpone my death right off. I couldn't possibly leave the world until I have heard this again and again.” The writer Ray Stannard Baker was an early enthusiast for the machine, especially its ability to bring music once the sole province of the wealthy, to everyday people, thereby “democratizing” music the way libraries had books and galleries art. He acknowledged the effect this would have on working musicians but noted as a positive that this would mean fewer strikes; furthermore, those specimens of antiquity who had to scrape a living sawing on bowstrings and parping into wind instruments would in the future have a niche appeal to those who appreciated their olde worlde charm, persisting as candelabras and horses did in the electric light and automobile age.

Future Sounds: The Story of Electronic Music from Stockhausen to Skrillex In FUTURE SOUNDS, David Stubbs charts the evolution of electronic music from the earliest mechanical experiments in the late nineteenth century to the pre-World War I inventions of the Futurist Luigi Russolo, author of the “Art Of Noises” manifesto. Buy

By 1907, however, the Telharmonium was in desperate trouble. Cahill and Co. weren’t reaping anything like enough in terms of revenue to cover their maintenance costs and salaries. "The times are hard, applicant is poor, the expense is burdensome,” groaned Cahill. The arrival of other technologies such as player pianos and Wurlitzers, with the wireless radio also heaving in from the horizon, made the Telharmonium, for which dispensation had been granted to lay its own cable system just a short while earlier, seem very old, obsolete and unwieldy hat. The Telharmonium was a harbinger of the future but its own future was shadowed by a mountain of debt. Bankruptcy followed. The Telharmonium was a dinosaur of the pre-futurist age, laid low by its 200-ton ambitions, high maintenance, immobility and inability to adapt.

In 1916, Edgard Varèse fetched up in America. A future inspiration to Frank Zappa among others, he spent most of his career as a composer awaiting the instruments that would truly articulate the “noise” of the 20th century and the deeper, elemental forces their unleashing signified. He was naturally keen to hear the Telharmonium and made directly for West 56th street to hear the latest version instrument where it was stationed. By this time, however, it was effectively a museum piece. The composer whose music anticipated technologies yet to be invented had the misfortune to arrive in New York in the post-Telharmonium age. He was disappointed by the machine, and perhaps little wonder; sound-wise, its most direct bequest has been the humble Hammond organ. In principle, however, it represented something quite new, quite else and quite vast to come.

Excerpted from FUTURE SOUNDS: The Story of Electronic Music from Stockhausen to Skrillex by David Stubbs. Published with permission from Faber & Faber. Copyright © 2018 by David Stubbs.

====== 150 ========

THE TEN BEST BOOKS ABOUT FOOD OF 2018

The world around us may be aswirl in chaos, but food writing was an undeniable bright spot in 2018. This year’s best offerings tackle a number of topics, including why people around the world eat certain things, how one defines “American” food, and why some ingredients taste good with other ingredients. Many of them have a deeper message, too: We’re all in this together. Food has an uncanny ability to connect people, because, after all, we all eat.

From essays on the global ubiquity of fried chicken to explainers on the ascension of tofu in the mainstream American diet, this year’s food books address complex subjects with humor, vivid detail and uncompromising skill. They’ll also make you very, very hungry, as only the best food books can.

You and I Eat the Same: On the Countless Ways Food and Cooking Connect Us to One Another In the opening pages of You and I Eat the Same, an impressive collection of essays and stories about how food connects people across political lines and cultural borders, editor Chris Ying admits that he wasn’t initially sold on the book’s title. “I’m still not prepared to say that you and I eat exactly the same,” Ying admits in the introduction. “But after reading what our contributors had to say about the ways food links us together, I feel distinctly closer to other people.” Maybe that’s because it’s hard to argue with many of the book’s points: For one, myriad cultures wrap meat in some form of flatbread (think tacos, dosas, scallion pancakes, and more). Consider, too, that people the world over prepare their own version of fried chicken (Koreans, Japanese, and Americans, to name a few). The book is the first in a series by MAD, a global food symposium launched by modernist chef René Redzepi, who co-owns the groundbreaking Copenhagen restaurant Noma. Redzepi penned the forward, and in his own essay contribution, “If It Does Well, It Belongs Here,” promotes the idea of venturing outside one’s culinary comfort zone. Hear, hear!

The Food Explorer: The True Adventures of the Globe-Trotting Botanist Who Transformed What America Eats In the annals of American history, botanists tend to draw a short stick in the glory department. And yet, much of how Americans eat today—specifically, our predilection for things like avocado toast, mango smoothies, and yes, even kale salads—is thanks to the 19th-century explorer David Fairchild. In this globe-trotting biography, journalist Daniel Stone dives into Fairchild’s many adventures, misadventures and close calls on behalf of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Centuries later, these exploits’ mark on the American palate remains indelible. “In 1908, few people had seen a soybean,” Stone writes. And yet, within a century, “the evolved descendants of soybeans that [Fairchild’s employee, Frank Meyer] shipped back would cover the Midwest of the United States like a rug. Soybeans would be applied to more diverse uses than any other crop in history.”

Milk!: A 10,000-Year Food Fracas Food historian Mark Kurlansky is famous for his deep dives on singular subjects, which range from salt to cod to oysters, and his latest work is everything one expects from this obsessive researcher. Milk! delves into the world’s most complex cultural, economic and culinary stories centered around milk, from Greek creation myths to modern pasteurization. In the New York Times Book Review, reviewer Rich Cohen aptly describes it as the “sort of book that Proust might have written had Proust become distracted by the madeleine ... you step away from this book with a new vantage on history, a working knowledge of exotic milk and cheese, acceptance of your mom, a sense of what makes Mark Kurlansky tick and a weird craving for buffalo mozzarella."

Buttermilk Graffiti: A Chef’s Journey to Discover America’s New Melting-Pot Cuisine Few chefs are as well equipped to tackle the American melting pot as four-time James Beard award-winning chef Edward Lee, who famously blends his Korean heritage with the culinary traditions of the American South in his four restaurants. In Buttermilk Graffiti, a book that’s half travelogue and half memoir, Lee investigates the true spirit of America through its food, his explorations pulling him from a Uyghur café in New York’s Brighton Beach to the sugar-dusted tables at Café du Monde in New Orleans and beyond. The book includes 40 of Lee’s recipes—think dishes like miso creamed corn, bourbon nuoc cham-roasted oysters and green tea beignets—all of them inspired by his travels.

Why You Eat What You Eat: The Science Behind Our Relationship with Food The factors that determine your eating habits are vast and complex, posits neuroscientist Rachel Herz in Why You Eat What You Eat, which manages to decode a host of bone-dry academic studies in a way that’s both conversational and fascinating. Herz explains that taste and emotions are fundamentally intertwined: “why eating sweets can make us kinder,” she writes, “how depression can make grapes taste more sour, and how bitterness can change our moral outlook.” Skeptical? Don’t worry, Herz has the facts to back up her claims. She also explains why bacon-scented underwear exists, which, depending on your vantage point, might just be Why You Eat What You Eat’s greatest contribution of all.

The Seven Culinary Wonders of the World: A History of Honey, Salt, Chile, Pork, Rice, Cacao, and Tomato In the history of the world, seven food staples—honey, salt, chile, pork, rice, cacao and tomato—have emerged as some of the most essential to the human experience, writes Jenny Linford in The Seven Culinary Wonders of the World. Beautifully illustrated by Alice Pattullo, the work peels back the layers of each ingredient, tracing their movements around the world and the ways in which they forever changed the cultures that adopted them. From the introduction of tomatoes to Europe by Spanish conquistadors to the earliest cultivation of rice in China’s Pearl Valley, Linford’s stories reveal that humans are more connected than we ever thought possible.

Hippie Food: How Back-to-the-Landers, Longhairs, and Revolutionaries Changed the Way We Eat Staples like brown rice and yogurt hardly warrant a raised eyebrow in 2018, but back in the 1960s and 1970s, such ingredients were the provenance of the long-haired and the radical. In Hippie Food, food writer Jonathan Kauffman examines the unusual men and women who bucked culinary norms and introduced tofu (and bean sprouts and granola and whole-grain bread) to the mainstream, from charismatic gurus to back-to-the-landers. Even those familiar with this tale might learn a thing or two. “I thought I knew this story,” writes Michael Pollan in his New York Times review, “but Kauffman has added a lot to it, in the way of both fresh information and narrative verve. In his telling, hippie food resulted from the convergence, around 1970, of three different strains of food ideology: health food faddism; ethical vegetarianism; and a post-Silent Spring critique of industrialized food and farming.”

Godforsaken Grapes: A Slightly Tipsy Journey through the World of Strange, Obscure, and Underappreciated Wine The number of wine grape varieties in the world number about 1,400, but the vast majority of all wine drunk worldwide is made from a mere 20 of them. So explains drinks writer Jason Wilson in Godforsaken Grapes, which places obscure and underappreciated fruit under a long overdue spotlight, from the golden-skinned Bordeaux variety Sémillon to the tannic, deep-red Boğazkere grape from southeastern Anatolia, Turkey. Drinking his way across the world’s most famous wine regions, Wilson uncovers the geopolitical, economic and cultural factors that influence our wine choices. We highly recommend that you read this with a glass of vino in hand.

The Flavor Matrix: The Art and Science of Pairing Common Ingredients to Create Extraordinary Dishes The world’s top flavor expert might be… a computer? In The Flavor Matrix, culinary school instructor James Briscione breaks down revelations made by Watson, IBM’s artificial intelligence computer system, which manages to make flavor connections on the molecular level that eluded even Briscione’s advanced palate. The unlikeliest of pairings? Strawberry and mushroom. Blueberry and horseradish. Clam and melon. Even avocado and cocoa are a match made in culinary heaven, apparently. Briscione and Parkhurst back up Watson’s work with recipes and detailed infographics, making The Flavor Matrix the food-pairing bible you never knew you needed.

====== 151 ========

THE TEN BEST STEM TOYS TO GIVE AS GIFTS THIS YEAR

In the grand tradition of Black Friday deals, toys for grownups dominate the doorbuster lists: TVs, laptops, tablets, smart home devices. But there are just as many tech toys for kids out there now, and how to pick the best robot, app, game or playset for your budding scientist or engineer can be a dizzying task.

Related Content The Ten Best STEM Toys of 2017

Monica Cardella and Elizabeth Gajdzik have you covered. At Purdue University’s INSPIRE Research Institute for Pre-College Engineering, Cardella and Gajdzik work with pre-school, school-age, college undergrads, engineers and parents to test and rate science- and tech-themed products that companies submit for review each year. Highly recommended toys, games and books make it into the institute’s annual Engineering Gift Guide; this year’s edition includes 128 products, mostly released in 2018 and 2017.

Along with the now-expected mix of building sets and toys with lights and motors, Cardella says one emerging trend is the availability of a wider variety of STEM-related books.

“That’s exciting for a couple of reasons: some kids are more interested in reading than in building,” Cardella says. “Books are a way to reach them and get those kids excited in STEM. But also, for the kids who are more interested in building, having books that connect to those interests help them become stronger readers.”

“I love to pair a book with a toy—for example, a book on the Curiosity [Mars rover] along with a rover toy,” Gajdzik says. “It gets kids thinking about the engineers’ thinking and design constraints, and then they can play with their own ways to design and code.”

To help gift-givers find just the right present for their loved ones, Cardella and Gajdzik narrowed their list down to a roster of top recommendations—and a few honorable mentions for each age category.

Ages 3+

Magformers Sky Track “This is a toy that any time we brought it out, it was well-played with, from three-year-olds to undergrads,” Gajdzik says. Compatible with other Magformers sets, the kit features a “sky shuttle” that kids can send adventuring on a customizable monorail-like course. A special spin track lets the shuttle do a 360-degree roll, and a lift track that raises the car from a lower track to the upper rail. The variety of possible configurations encourages creative play, while kids put their spatial reasoning skills to work to build the accompanying booklet’s suggested designs. (Magformers, $129.99)

The Most Magnificent Thing Penned and illustrated by Ashley Spires, this story’s everygirl is the embodiment of the kind of perseverance that often leads to surprisingly gratifying ends. “The main character has this idea to create the most magnificent thing, but she can’t get it out into the world the way she wants it to be,” Cardella says. Trying, failing, finally getting mad, then looking at her previous attempts with new eyes, the central character demonstrates the iterative nature of science and discovery. (Kids Can Press, $16.95)

Hape Flexistix STEM Building Multi-Tower Kit Though multiple products from toymaker HAPE’s Flexistix line made it into the 2018 Engineering Guide, Cardella and Gadjzik both recommend the Multi-Tower for its many pieces and sheer creative possibilities. Kids can build a variety of architectural forms by joining bamboo sticks with flexible silicone connectors – easy for even young builders to do as an independent activity. In the testing lab, kids built dinosaurs and helicopters as well as towers; environmentally minded families may appreciate the company’s use of sustainably sourced, eco-friendly materials in all their toy offerings. (HAPE, $34.99)

Honorable Mentions

Gears! Gears! Gears! Machines in Motion (Learning Resources, $39.99)

Grand City Station Railway Set (HAPE, $130)

PolyM Dinosaur Paradise Kit (HAPE, $49.99)

Ages 5+

Code & Go Mouse Mania Board Game Get cheese, win game. Easy, right? Not quite: for young players to claim victory with the biggest pile of cheese in this classic-style board game, they must first chart a course via sequences of “code” from game cards drawn at each turn. Strategic thinking and problem solving skills abound to figure out how to get to board-jumping warp zones and around walls other players program into their path. “Kids really love the 3D cheese and mouse pieces,” Gadjzik said. “Parents liked that the game is screen-free, and that each game is different every time you play.” (Learning Resources, $18.39)

Botley the Coding Robot Activity Set Though this toy is also screen free, it definitely comes with the cache of moving parts: the wide-eyed Botley robot. Using the included remote clicker, kids can program the little wheeled robot to move through a sequence of up to 80 moves at a time. The set includes materials kids can use to build pathways for Botley to follow, obstacles to navigate, and toys to play with. Though kids can plan out their pathway with the included coding cards, testers at the INSPIRE lab enjoyed tinkering and learning to guide the robot through trial and error. (Learning Resources, $79.99)

Rosie Revere and the Raucous Riveters: The Questioneers Book #1 This page-turner by Andrea Beaty follows beloved picture-book character Rosie Revere in her first chapter book volume of the Questioneers series. Along with friends Ada Twist and Iggy Peck, Rosie takes on the challenge of inventing a solution to help a friend participate in an art contest in spite of two (!) broken wrists. Illustrated by David Roberts, the tale demonstrates the power of perseverance, creativity and teamwork. Parents said they enjoyed the diversity of characters in the book, Gadjzik says, and that the main character is a “strong, smart female.” (Abrams Books, $12.99)

Honorable Mentions:

Pattern Play 3D (MindWare, $34.95)

Gadgets & Gizmos Invention Kit (Lakeshore Learning, $49.99)

CatStronauts 4-book series, by Drew Brockington (Little, Brown Books, $7.99 each, paperback)

Engilina’s Trains, by Andrew King (Little Steps Publishing, $24.95)

Ages 8+

Snap Circuits Jr. SC-100 Electronics Exploration Kit The most-played-with toy out of any in the testing lab, this set has all the hallmarks of becoming a timeless classic like Lego and Knex, says Gadjzik and Cardella. This 30-piece beginner kit includes a booklet with 100 circuit projects, but like other free-form building toys, users can easily improvise to come up with their own electronic designs. The large, color-coded pieces are easy to snap on and off of the grid board, and Gadjzik notes that even young kids understand when they’ve made an error: “The project doesn’t light up or make noise, so they know immediately to go and look for where they went wrong. They want the reward of getting it to work.” (Elenco, $34.99)

Curiosity: The Story of a Mars Rover This colorful 48-page book by Markus Motum tells the story of NASA’s beloved Martian rover—from its design, build, launch and extraterrestrial journey, but all from the robot’s point of view. Mokum told Space.com in an interview that he was inspired by the entire process of creation, and that the “human element was just as inspirational in telling the story as the science behind it.” Gadjzik says that after reading the book with her five-year-old son, he recognized Curiosity in a different resource—and even undergrads in the INSPIRE testing lab reported learning new facts from the book, as well. (Hudson Booksellers, $22.99)

Asteroid Escape Cardella’s favorite logic game among this year’s offerings, Asteroid Escape is a riff on the classic sliding-tile game. Playing as a spaceship stranded in an asteroid field, players must shuffle the ship around to free it from the field while avoiding the protruding asteroid tiles. The game includes 60 challenges that increase in difficulty, but that incrementally teach strategies for planning how to get around future obstacles. (Smart Games, $14.99)

Honorable Mentions:

Engineered! Engineering Design at Work, by Shannon Hunt (Kids Can Press, $17.99)

Chibitronics Love to Code Creative Coding Kit (Chibitronics, $85.00)

Kanoodle Extreme (Educational Insights, $14.99)

Best Overall STEM Toy

====== 152 ========

MIT FLIES MODEL AIRPLANE POWERED BY THE BLUE GLOW OF ELECTRIC FIELDS AND IONIC WINDS

Since their invention more than 100 years ago, airplanes have been moved through the air by the spinning surfaces of propellers or turbines. But watching science fiction movies like the “Star Wars,” “Star Trek” and “Back to the Future” series, I imagined that the propulsion systems of the future would be silent and still – maybe with some kind of blue glow and “whoosh” noise, but no moving parts, and no stream of pollution pouring out the back.

That doesn’t exist yet, but there is at least one physical principle that could be promising. About nine years ago, I started investigating using ionic winds – flows of charged particles through the air – as a means of powering flight. Building on decades of research and experimentation by academics and hobbyists, professionals and high school science students, my research group recently flew a nearly silent airplane without any moving parts.

The plane weighed about five pounds (2.45 kilograms) and had a wingspan of 15 feet (5 meters), and traveled about 180 feet (60 meters), so it’s a long way from efficiently carrying cargo or people long distances. But we have proved that it is possible to fly a heavier-than-air vehicle using ionic winds. It even has a glow you can see in the dark.

Revisiting discarded research

The process our plane uses, formally called electroaerodynamic propulsion, was investigated as far back as the 1920s by an eccentric scientist who thought he had discovered anti-gravity – which was of course not the case. In the 1960s, aerospace engineers explored using it to power flight, but they concluded that wouldn’t be possible with the understanding of ionic winds and the technology available at the time.

More recently, however, a huge number of hobbyists – and high school students doing science fair projects – have built small electroaerodynamic propulsion devices that suggested it could work after all. Their work was pivotal to the early days of my group’s work. We sought to improve on their work, most notably by conducting a large series of experiments to learn how to optimize the design of electroaerodynamic thrusters.

Moving the air, not the plane parts

The underlying physics of electroaerodynamic propulsion is relatively straightforward to explain and implement, although some of the underlying physics is complex.

We use a thin filament or wire that is charged to +20,000 volts using a lightweight power converter, which in turn gets its power from a lithium-polymer battery. The thin filaments are called emitters, and are nearer the front of the plane. Around these emitters the electric field is so strong that the air gets ionized – neutral nitrogen molecules lose an electron and become positively charged nitrogen ions.

Farther back on the plane we place an airfoil – like a small wing – whose leading edge is electrically conductive and charged to -20,000 volts by the same power converter. This is called the collector. The collector attracts the positive ions toward it. As the ions stream from the emitter to the collector, they collide with uncharged air molecules, causing what is termed an ionic wind that flows between the emitters and collectors, propelling the plane forward.

This ionic wind replaces the flow of air that a jet engine or propeller would create.

Starting small

I have led research that has explored how this type of propulsion actually works, developing detailed knowledge of how efficient and powerful it can be.

My team and I have also worked with electrical engineers to develop the electronics necessary to convert batteries’ output to the tens of thousands of volts needed to create an ionic wind. The team was able to produce a power converter far lighter than any previously available. That device was small enough to be practical in an aircraft design, which we were ultimately able to build and fly.

Our first flight is, of course, a very long way from flying people. We’re already working on making this type of propulsion more efficient and capable of carrying larger loads. The first commercial applications, assuming it gets that far, could be in making silent fixed-wing drones, including for environmental monitoring and communication platforms.

Looking farther into the future, we hope that it could be used in larger aircraft to reduce noise and even allow an aircraft’s exterior skin to help produce thrust, either in place of engines or to augment their power. It’s also possible that electroaerodynamic equipment could be miniaturized, enabling a new variety of nano-drones. Many might believe these possibilities are unlikely or even impossible. But that’s what the engineers of the 1960s thought about what we’re already doing today.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Steven Barrett, Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

====== 153 ========

THIS HOLIDAY SEASON, TREAT YOURSELF TO SOME SUCCULENT SOUL FOOD

From the artful ascending layout of its exhibitions to the assertive beauty of its architecture, the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. offers many enticements to visitors. One essential aspect of the museum experience that may be less apparent to first-time guests, however, is the Sweet Home Café, the museum’s in-house cafeteria.

Related Content Two Hungry Reporters Dig Into the Sweet Home Café at the African American History Museum

A far cry from your typical mess hall, the Sweet Home Café offers a large menu of complex dishes intimately connected with the African-American experience. Helmed by Maryland-born executive chef Jerome Grant, the Café categorizes its diverse, but invariably hearty, meals by region of origin: Agricultural South, Creole Coast, Northern States or Western Range.

These regions are likewise a roadmap of the just-released Sweet Home Café Cookbook from Smithsonian Books, which graciously ushers the mouthwatering entrees, desserts and sides of the Café directly into the homes of readers.

The agricultural south, once the nexus of plantation slavery, was the site of wide-ranging African-American culinary innovation from colonial times onward. Scant resources and brutal circumstances meant that a spirit of creativity was required to survive. Pioneering black cooks like Hercules, George Washington’s enslaved personal chef, or George Washington Carver, who ideated scores of novel uses for the peanut, helped lay the groundwork for a gourmet legacy.

In the Café Cookbook, Smithsonian chefs showcase updated takes on southern classics including chicken livers and grits (an evergreen example of culinary resourcefulness), fried okra (complemented by a dip of rich pimento cheese aioli), buttermilk fried chicken (a favorite at the museum), crackling cornbread (named for the pork rinds that impart a husky flavor to the product), and the tried-and-true New Year’s concoction known as Hoppin’ John (whose defining ingredients are black-eyed peas and rice).

Sweet Home Café Cookbook: A Celebration of African American Cooking The National Museum of African American History and Culture's Sweet Home Café showcases the rich culture and history of the African-American people with traditional, authentic offerings as well as up-to-date dishes. The award-winning culinary historian Jessica B. Harris served as advisor to the museum as it developed the café. Chef Albert Lukas crafted the innovative and highly acclaimed café menu, which ties together food history, heritage ingredient sourcing and modern tastes. Executive Chef Jerome Grant develops inventive special meals for holiday celebrations. Buy

The flavors of the Creole coast, a sizable stretch of territory rimming the Gulf of Mexico, diverge significantly from those of the southern staples above, largely due to the region’s confluence of disparate immigrant cultures. “Local foodways mixed and mingled with those of Europe, Africa and the Caribbean,” write coauthors Albert Lukas and Jessica B. Harris, “as well as with those of Native Americans through extended contacts within the Atlantic world.”

Creole selections from the cookbook include pickled Gulf shrimp (seasoned with allspice berries and celery seeds), Frogmore stew (a boiled blend of shrimp, crab, kielbasa sausage and corncobs), a catfish po’boy sandwich (the pride of New Orleans, served on a “French-style loaf”), and, for dessert, a filling rum raisin cake (whose molasses flavoring gestures to the region’s deep history of sugarcane cultivation).

Many tend to think of African-American cooking as strictly southern, but black chefs exerted ample culinary influence in New England and environs as well. The northern states region of the Sweet Home Café Cookbook—“which includes not only the ‘mythic’ north of the enslaved but also the north of the Great Migration”—was a hotbed of African-American experimentation with seafood recipes. The text notes that black northerners in early America would often leverage their culinary chops to climb the social ladder, as Rhode Island oyster and alehouse entrepreneur Emmanuel “Manna” Bernoon did upon his emancipation in 1736.

Connoisseurs of northern fare can look forward to sampling the book’s interpretations of pan-roasted oysters (blanketed by a piquant chili cream sauce), oxtail pepper pot stew (a Guyanese Christmas dish featuring cassava root syrup and flaming-hot wiri wiri peppers), Maryland crab cakes (fried and bearing traces of Dijon mustard, Old Bay, Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco) and their cod cake cousins (served with gribiche, a French twist on tartar sauce).

The featured region that may be most surprising to readers is the western range, but the authors of the Sweet Home Café Cookbook note that enterprising African-Americans who pushed westward in the age of conestoga wagons regularly devised rugged but tasty recipes on the fly. They also brought with them meals from their birthplaces, as was the case with ex-slave Abby Fisher, a postbellum migrant who established herself in San Francisco. Fisher built from the ground up a robust catering and pickle business, and penned a seminal African-American cooking text, What Mrs. Fisher Knows about Old Southern Cooking.

The Café Cookbook’s nods to the old west include a barbecued brisket sandwich (“In much of the South, barbecue is about pork. In Texas, however, beef brisket is the chosen meat on the barbecue trail.”), pan-roasted rainbow trout (glazed with hazelnuts and brown butter), empanadas (stuffed with black-eyed peas and chanterelle mushrooms in a cross-cultural twist), and cowboy campfire-appropriate son-of-a-gun stew (replete with onions, turnips, corn kernels and abundant short rib meat).

The selections from the four featured regions are complemented by a handful of dishes served exclusively at the African American History museum, ranging from curried goat and jerk chicken preparations playing on Jamaican traditions to a collard, tomato and cashew stew in which cardamom, curry powder and coconut milk put an Asian spin on African-American eating.

And if you’re struggling to liven up Thanksgiving this year, look no further than the Sweet Home Café Cookbook’s reinventions of Big Easy grillades (gravy-bathed turkey medallions garnished with fried apple wedges), candied sweet potatoes (“This version has so much taste that you won’t even miss the marshmallows.”), and peach and blackberry cobbler (paired with cold vanilla ice cream). All are guaranteed to content at least six quarrelsome relatives.

====== 154 ========

HOW THE FORMERLY UBIQUITOUS PUMPKIN BECAME A THANKSGIVING TREAT

With its spice-infused creamy, orange filling and crisp crust, there’s nothing quite like pumpkin pie to herald the arrival of the Thanksgiving holiday (though some might argue in favor of its other forms, from pumpkin bread to pumpkin ale). The pumpkin features uniquely in this fall holiday and the autumn weeks generally, remaining absent from other celebrations like the Fourth of July or Christmas. But at one point, the squash was as ubiquitous as bread—and sometimes even more so, as American colonists would rely on it to make bread when their harvest of wheat fell short. How did the pumpkin go from everyday produce to seasonal treat? It’s a story more than 10,000 years in the making.

To understand the surprising trajectory of the orange pumpkin, it’s important to know something of its life history. The cheerful pumpkin is known by the species name Cucurbita pepo—a species that also includes acorn squash, ornamental gourds and even zucchini. All these different forms of Cucurbita pepo are cultivars, varieties of the same species that are selected in certain forms by human farmers. And yes, they are technically fruits, though many refer to them colloquially as vegetables.

Before humans arrived in the Americas, wild forms of these squashes grew in natural abundance around floodplains and other disrupted habitats, with the help of enormous mammalian herbivores. Creatures like giant ground sloths, mastodons and gomphotheres (elephant-like animals) created the perfect environment for wild squashes, and when humans arrived and hunted the massive herbivores to extinction, many of the wild squashes and gourds went extinct as well. Those that survived managed to do so because humans continued growing them, making squashes (including in the pumpkin form) the first domesticated plant in the Americas. Archaeologists unearthed the oldest example of orange field pumpkin seeds in Oaxaca, Mexico and dated them to an astonishing 10,000 years—millennia before the appearance of domesticated corn or beans.

Initially, indigenous people used the squashes for their seeds and as containers, but by 2500 B.C. Native Americans in the Southwest were cultivating corn, beans and squash on farms. The crop spread across the Americas, with communities from the Haudenosaunee in the northeast (also known as the Iroquois Confederacy) to the Cherokee of the southeast planting and sometimes venerating the squash.

When Europeans arrived, they encountered the endemic crop everywhere. “Columbus mentioned them on his first voyage, Jacques Cartier records their growing in Canada in the 1530s, Cabeza de Vaca saw them in Florida in the 1540s, as did Hernando de Soto in the 1550s,” writes historian Mary Miley Theobald. Native Americans cooked the squashes in all manner of ways: roasting them in the fire, cutting them into stews, pounding the dried flesh into a powder, or drying strips of it into something like vegetable jerky. (At one point George Washington had his farm manager attempt the same preparation with Mount Vernon pumpkins, only for the man to report, “I tried the mode you directed of slicing and drying them, but it did not appear to lengthen their preservation.”)

For these colonists, the squashes provided an abundant source of nutrition, and they rarely distinguished one form of Cucurbita pepo from another. “Through the colonial era they used the words interchangeable for pumpkin or squash,” says Cindy Ott, the author of Pumpkin: The Curious History of an American Icon. As to whether the Pilgrims ate pumpkin at their iconic meal with Native Americans, Ott says there’s no mention of it in the written records, but people “probably ate it that day, the day before, and the day after.”

It wasn’t until the early-19th century that Americans began to distinguish between the different forms of Cucurbita pepo, when masses of people moved from the rural countryside to urban areas during the Industrial Revolution. Zucchini and other summer squashes were sold as cultivars in city markets; the pumpkin, however, remained on farms, used as livestock feed. City-dwellers, meanwhile, ached with nostalgia for their connection to the land, Ott says. By the middle of the century, popular songs pined for happy childhoods spent on the farm. The pumpkin served as a symbol of that farming tradition, even for people who no longer actually worked on farms. “The pumpkin has no economic value in this new industrial economy,” Ott says. “The other squashes are associated with daily life, but the pumpkin represents abundance and pure agrarian ideals.”

Pumpkin pie first appeared as a recipe in the 1796 cookbook American Cookery, published by New England writer Amelia Simmons, and was sold mainly in that region. When the dessert gained popularity, it was billed as a New England specialty. That connection to the North translated to the pumpkin being appropriated by abolitionists leading up to and during the Civil War, Ott says. Women who championed the anti-slavery cause also wrote poetry and short stories about pumpkins, praising them as a symbol of the resilient, northern family farmer. The status of the squash rose to national prominence in 1863, when President Lincoln, at the behest of numerous women abolitionists, named the fourth Thursday in November as a national holiday.

“The women who [helped create] Thanksgiving as a holiday were strong abolitionists, so they associated pumpkin farms with northern virtue and very consciously compared it to Southern immoral plantation life,” Ott says. “That feeds into how Thanksgiving became a national holiday in the midst of the Civil War, when the pumpkin was a pivotal player in the northern harvest.”

The link between Thanksgiving and pumpkin pie has continued to this day, with American farmers growing more than a billion pounds of pumpkin annually, the vast majority for Halloween and Thanksgiving. Urbanites travel out to family farms to buy their jack-o-lantern pumpkins, and visit the grocery store for canned pumpkin before the big holiday. For Ott, learning the history of the pumpkin was a lesson in how every-day objects can tell deeper stories.

“These very romantic ideas are about farm life and how Americans like to imagine themselves, because farming is hard work and most people wanted to leave the farm as soon as they could,” Ott says. “But [the pumpkin shows] how we think about nature, ourselves and our past. A humble vegetable can tell all these stories.”

====== 155 ========

SMITHSONIAN SCHOLARS PICK THEIR FAVORITE BOOKS OF 2018

Recommended by Christopher W. Wilson, director, Experience Design, African American History Program, National Museum of American History

Though I am sure there will be one, don’t wait for the movie, but instead pick up David Blight’s incredible biography Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom. If Ron Chernow’s Hamilton, could inspire a groundbreaking revival of interest in the history of the founding generation through its dynamic retelling on the stage, Blight’s positively cinematic treatment of the incredible life and personage of Douglass seems destined for the same influence in public history. It would be doubly fitting for this work to shape public memory in that its author has long been a leading light in the study not just of 19th century history but of how we collectively remember or forget that history, and its subject, Douglass, who was acutely aware of the importance of historical memory in deciding the ultimate winners and losers of the fight over slavery that tore apart the nation during his lifetime. The time seems right for the nation to remember Douglass, a towering figure in the 19th century, clearly the most famous black person of the time, but one of the most famous Americans generally. I’ve always been drawn to Douglass and other forgotten heroes of the struggle for equality in this nation who fought with vigor, confidence and gusto more than a century before the well-known freedom fighters of the 1950s and 1969s civil rights movement. We remember the strong words of a Malcolm X, the militancy of the Black Panthers or Robert Williams, the author of Negroes with Guns, or the defiance of Rosa Parks. But Frederick Douglass was all those people rolled into one, with some Martin King added in. This was a man, who while enslaved stood up to his owner, so much that he hired a slave breaking service (yes, that was a thing) to torture him into submission, and Douglass beat the man down. This was a man who entered segregated sections of rail cars in the 1840s, protesting Jim Crow before the term even existed. He was as Blight points out, arguably the most-traveled American of his time, his notoriety taking him across the nation and across the seas. And most importantly, he was a voice whose imagination of freedom, equality and the promise of America was not limited by the times in which he lived. We often give a pass to figures from the past who did not act or dream in pursuit of a more humane future, citing the limitations of the time in which they loved. Though he could not foresee the future he dreamt of and worked for—that hasn’t actually arrived yet—Douglass sought it nonetheless. He loved an America that did not exist in spite of the one in which he lived “cursed with the infernal spirit of slaveholding . . . and wrong.” For that role as a ‘prophet” as Blight calls him and for his legendary life of heroic action, check out the book. And also look forward to the eventual film! Idris Elba are you listening?

====== 156 ========

THE TRUE STORY OF THE ‘GREEN BOOK’ MOVIE

It was well after dark on a Saturday night in January 1963 when the Don Shirley Trio took the stage in Manitowoc, Wisconsin. The program of show tunes, jazz and classical music, the local paper reported, was “brilliant and exciting and warmly received by the large crowd.” But its famed leader and pianist, Don Shirley, who was black, knew his welcome was conditional. A hateful sign stood at Manitowoc’s city limits: “N-----, don’t let the sun go down on you in our town.”

From This Story The Negro Motorist Green-Book Buy

When the trio set out on another tour later that year, Shirley hired a white driver, a gregarious Italian-American bouncer known as Tony Lip, to handle problems that might arise in the “sundown towns” of the North and the Jim Crow-era South. “My father said it was almost on a daily basis they would get stopped, because a white man was driving a black man,” recalls Lip’s son Nick Vallelonga, who has turned their journey into Green Book, a new film garnering Oscar buzz.

Vallelonga was 5 years old when his father headed out on the road with the pianist. After they returned more than a year later, the men lived their separate lives—Shirley played to acclaim in Europe and Lip became an actor—but they remained friends. As a child Vallelonga visited Shirley in his studio in Manhattan and heard stories about their trip. “That’s an unbelievable movie,” he remembers thinking. “I’m gonna make it one day.” In his 20s, Vallelonga, an actor and occasional screenwriter, interviewed his father and Shirley about how these two men from starkly different backgrounds navigated the racism they encountered. But Shirley stipulated that he didn’t want the story told until after his death.

Both men passed away in 2013, and those conversations, along with letters Lip wrote his wife, form the basis of Green Book, which stars Mahershala Ali as Shirley and Viggo Mortensen as Lip. The title is a reference to The Negro Motorist Green Book, a travel guide for African-Americans published from 1936 to 1967 that promised “vacation without aggravation.”

Making the film more than half a century after the events it depicts hasn’t muted its powerful message about overcoming prejudice. Lip “was a product of his times. Italians lived with Italians. The Irish lived with the Irish. African-Americans lived with African-Americans,” Vallelonga says. The trip “opened my father’s eyes...and then changed how he treated people.”

====== 157 ========

HOW VOLTAIRE WENT FROM BASTILLE PRISONER TO FAMOUS PLAYWRIGHT

François-Marie d’Arouet was the kind of precocious teen who always got invited to the best parties. Earning a reputation for his wit and catchy verses among the elites of 18th-century Paris, the young writer got himself exiled to the countryside in May 1716 for writing criticism of the ruling family. But Arouet—who would soon adopt the pen name “Voltaire”—was only getting started in his takedowns of those in power. In the coming years, those actions would have far more drastic repercussions: imprisonment for him, and a revolution for his country. And it all started with a story of incest.

In 1715, the young Arouet began a daunting new project: adapting the story of Oedipus for a contemporary French audience. The ancient Greek tale chronicles the downfall of Oedipus, who fulfilled a prophecy that he would kill his father, the king of Thebes, and marry his mother. Greek playwright Sophocles wrote the earliest version of the play in his tragedy, Oedipus Rex. As recently as 1659, the famed French dramatist Pierre Corneille had adapted the play, but Arouet thought the story deserved an update, and he happened to be living at the perfect time to give it one.

On September 1, 1715, Louis XIV (also known as the “Sun King”) died without leaving a clear successor. One of the most powerful rulers in the history of France, raising its fortunes and expanding colonial holdings, Louis also dragged the country into three major wars. He centralized power in France and elevated the Catholic Church by ruthlessly persecuting French Protestants. The king’s only son predeceased him, as did his grandson. His great-grandson, at age 5, needed a regent to oversee the ruling of the state. That duty fell to Philippe Duc d’Orléans, who used his position to essentially rule the country as Regent until his own death.

Philippe change the geopolitical trajectory of France, forming alliances with Austria, the Netherlands, and Great Britain. He also upended the old social order, opposing censorship and allowing once-banned books to be reprinted. The atmosphere “changed radically as the country came under the direction of a man who lived in the Palais-Royal, at the heart of Paris, and was widely known to indulge mightily in the pleasures of the table, the bottle, and the flesh—including, it was no less commonly believed, the flesh of his daughter, the duchesse de Berry,” writes Roger Pearson in Voltaire Almighty: A Life in Pursuit of Freedom.

For Arouet, the loosening of social restrictions created an almost limitless sense of possibilities, and harnessing theater was perhaps the most effective way to spread the message of freedom and tolerance to the public.

“Voltaire estimated that only five percent of the population in Europe could read in his Letters on England in 1733,” says Gail Noyer, the editor and translator of Voltaire’s Revolution: Writings From His Campaign to Free Laws From Religion. “So [public performances of] plays had far more influence than books did, until much later in the century.”

As for where his work would be performed, only one choice presented itself, even though Paris hosted multiple theaters. “The Comédie Française had a virtual monopoly as the only theatre authorized and supervised by the court for the staging of tragedies and serious dramas,” writes Ian Davidson in Voltaire: A Life. “Almost anybody who wanted to be a writer wanted to write for the Comédie Française.”

Arouet worked feverishly on his play, Oedipe, only for it to be rejected by the Comédie Française. Still, the theater didn’t give him an absolute dismissal, instead suggesting revisions, which he continued hacking away at for several years. Finally, on January 19, 1717, the theatre agreed to put on a revised form of the play.

But the timing for Arouet’s success couldn’t have been worse. While he’d been at work on his play, Arouet continued to write popular verses that were shared among his friends—including a piece that referenced the rumors of the Regent’s incestuous conduct with his daughter:

“It is not the son, it is the father;

It is the daughter, and not the mother;

So far, so good.

They have already made Eteocles;

If suddenly he loses his two eyes;

That would be a true story for Sophocles.”

The verse clearly pointed to the Regent, Philippe, and his relationship with his daughter, and even for the permissive ruler, it was a bridge too far. On May 16, 1717, Arouet was arrested and taken to the formidable Bastille. He tried to plead innocence in his case, claiming he wasn’t the one who’d written the verses, but he had already admitted authorship to several friends—friends who turned out to be spies. “Conditions in the Bastille were harsh and oppressive, with its ten-foot walls, its ‘triple locks, and grills and bolts and bars’, and with poor food and no sunlight,” Davidson writes. Even worse, Arouet had no idea when he might be set free, if ever. His case never went through any type of judicial process; the length of his detention depended solely on the whim of the Regent.

After 11 months, the Regency decided to show mercy to Arouet, releasing him on Holy Thursday, April 14, 1718. Arouet was placed on the 18th-century equivalent of house arrest for several more months, but was finally allowed free entry in and out of Paris, and on November 18, 1718, the young man who had started to address himself as “Voltaire” had the first major success of his life: the staging of Oedipe at the Comédie Française.

The play was immensely popular, going on to run for a nearly unprecedented 32 performances, Davidson writes. Perhaps some of that popularity stemmed from the Regent’s titillating scandals. But Voltaire didn’t just attack hereditary monarchy; he also leveled charges against the corrupt power of the Church. In one of the playwright’s most famous lines, Queen Jocasta says, “Our priests are not what the foolish people imagine; their wisdom is based solely on our credulity.” Considering how powerful the Catholic Church remained, it was a dangerous dig to make—but one audiences thrilled to hear.

“Generally, the moral content of earlier plays stressed love of God and king, patriotic duty and the like,” writes literary historian Marcus Allen. “In the hands of Voltaire, however, the play itself became the primary vehicle for launching attacks upon the evils of the ancien régime.”

The popularity of the play catapulted Voltaire to true fame, but it also taught him of the dangers that accompanied outspokenness. As he continued writing plays, poems, letters and stories, Voltaire faced an increasing number of critics as well as fans, and would be exiled from France multiple times over the course of his life for offending the Catholic Church and the monarchy. But Voltaire’s stays in England, Holland, Belgium and Prussia exposed him to some of the era’s greatest Enlightenment figures; he was the first to bring the writings of Isaac Newton and philosopher John Locke to France. With his condemnation of torture, war, religious persecution and absolute monarchy, Voltaire paved the way for the ideas that would fuel the French Revolution in 1789, and inspired great American intellects like Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. Yet according to Noyer, much of that legacy is forgotten today.

“The only thing people seem to know anymore is Candide,” Noyer says, referencing a satirical novel about the dangers of optimism. “I think it’s only chosen as a safe subject, because it certainly wasn’t a big deal in his lifetime.” For Noyer, the real masterpiece is how much Voltaire managed to achieve with his words: helping to inspire the French Revolution and teaching people to think more critically about religious intolerance and injustice.

====== 158 ========

A FRESH LOOK AT THESE STONE TOOLS REVEALS A NEW CHAPTER OF ANCIENT CHINESE HISTORY

You probably think of new technologies as electronics you can carry in a pocket or wear on a wrist. But some of the most profound technological innovations in human evolution have been made out of stone. For most of the time that humans have been on Earth, they’ve chipped stone into useful shapes to make tools for all kinds of work.

In a study just published in Nature, we’ve dated a distinctive and complex method for making stone tools to a much earlier timeframe in China than had previously been accepted. Archaeologists had thought that artifacts of this kind had been carried into China by groups migrating from Europe and Africa. But our new discovery, dated to between 170,000 and 80,000 years ago, suggests that they could have been invented locally without input from elsewhere, or come from much earlier cultural transmission or human migration.

Several different species of humans lived on Earth at this time, including modern ones like us. But we haven’t found any human bones from this site, so don’t know which species of human made these tools.

These Chinese artifacts provide one more piece of evidence that changes the way we think about the origin and spread of new stone tool technologies. And intriguingly we made our discovery based on artifacts that had been excavated decades ago.

New technology among old stones

Archaeologists have identified five modes humans have used to make stone tools over the last 3 million years. Each mode is represented by a new stone tool type that is dramatically different from what came before. The appearance of each new mode is also marked by a big increase in the number of steps needed to make the new tool type.

One of these modes, Mode III, also called Levallois, is at the center of several big debates about human evolution. Levallois tools are the defining features of the archaeological period referred to as the Middle Paleolithic, or Africa’s Middle Stone Age. They are the result of a set of very specific steps of chipping a piece of stone to create similar-sized tools suitable to be shaped for a variety of purposes. These steps are remarkable because they are a much more efficient way to produce lots of useful cutting tools, with minimal wasted stone, compared to earlier technologies.

One of these debates is whether Mode III tools were invented in one place and then spread out, or independently invented in several different locations. Since the world’s oldest securely dated Levallois tools have been found in north Africa from around 300,000 years ago, it’s possible they spread out from there, carried by groups of early humans migrating across Europe and into Asia. On the other hand, finds of similarly early Levallois tools in Armenia and India support the idea of independent inventions of the technology outside of Africa.

Changing the chronology in China

In China it has been hard to find evidence of Mode III tools until relatively late in the Palaeolithic period, approximately 30,000 to 40,000 years ago. That’s concurrent with when Mode IV (blade tools) appear there. Ancient people in China appeared to leap from Mode II (stone hand axes) to Mode III and IV at the same time. This suggests that Levallois tools appeared in China when modern humans migrated in and brought these new technologies with them around 30,000 to 40,000 years ago.

Our results support a different story for the origin of Levallois tools in China. At Guanyindong Cave in Guizhou Province in south-central China, we found Mode III tools in layers dated to around 170,000 and around 80,000 years ago. This puts them well before Mode IV tools, and at around the same time that Levallois were the main tools used in Europe and Africa.

One major implication of our new early ages from Guanyindong Cave is that the appearance of Levallois tools in China is no longer tied to the arrival of modern humans and Mode IV tools 30,000 to 40,000 years ago. Instead, Levallois tools could have been invented locally in China – maybe by a different human species. Another possibility is that they were introduced by a much earlier migration, perhaps by the people whose teeth have been found in a cave in Daoxian, Hunan Province, who lived between 80,000 and 120,000 years ago.

Going back to Guanyindong Cave

Our discovery is a little unusual because we didn’t do any major new excavations. All of the stone tools we studied had been excavated from Guanyindong Cave in the 1960s and 1970s. Since that time Guanyindong has been famous as one of the most important Paleolithic sites in South China because of the relatively large number of stone tools found there.

Most are stored at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing, and our team spent a lot of time carefully inspecting each tool to identify the traces that reveal how it was made. It was during this painstaking analysis of the museum specimens that we encountered a few dozen Levallois tools among the thousands of artifacts in the collection.

During the previous excavations at Guanyindong Cave, researchers had used uranium-series methods to date fossils found in the sediments. This technique relies on the radioactive decay of tiny amounts of uraniumthat collects in bone shortly after it is buried to come up with an age range for its burial. But it’s hard to precisely determine the true age of bone using this method. At Guanyindong these uranium-series ages span a wide range, from 50,000 to 240,000 years ago. Also, the association between the dated fossil pieces and the stone artifacts was not recorded in detail. These problems meant that we couldn’t work out what layers the dated fossils came from, and if they were close to any of the Levallois stone tools.

Using only information available from the previous excavation, we couldn’t be sure of the exact age of the Levallois tools in the museum. The dates were important to nail down, because if they were older than 30-40,000 years, then they could be the earliest Levallois tools found in China.

To uncover the true age of these Levallois tools, we made several trips to the cave to collect new samples for dating. It was challenging to find a suitable location to get the samples because the previous excavations didn’t leave much behind and much of the site was covered with thick vegetation.

We collected our new sediment samples from places where artifacts were still visible in the wall of the excavation, so we could be sure of a close connection between our samples and the stone tools. Essentially we were trying to collect new dirt from the spots where the museum artifacts had originally been excavated. The plan was then to test the samples with more advanced dating techniques than had originally been available.

Analyzing new samples to date old artifacts

Back in the lab, we analyzed the samples using single-grain optically stimulated luminescence methods. This technique can identify how much time has passed since each individual grain was last exposed to the sun. Dating many individual grains in a sample is important because it can tell us if tree roots, animals or insects have mixed younger sediments down into older ones. After we identified and removed intrusive younger grains, we found that one layer of artifacts dated to about 80,000 years ago. We dated a lower layer to about 170,000 years ago. Our museum work had identified Levallois tools in both of these layers.

With the combination of careful inspection of the museum collection, new fieldwork to collect samples, and a new laboratory method of dating the site, we had uncovered a surprising and important result. These Levallois tools are much older than those from any other sites in East Asia. This suggests a more widespread geographic distribution of Levallois prior to the dispersal of modern humans out of Africa and Europe into Asia.

One reason why it has been so hard to find evidence of the technique in China until now is that the number of people in East Asia during the Palaeolithic might have been much smaller than in the West. Small, low-density populations with weak and irregular patterns of social activity might make it hard for new technologies to spread and persist over a long time.

We don’t know what species of human made the tools at Guanyindong because we haven’t found any bones. Whoever they were, they had similar skills to people living in the West at the same time. They appear to have independently discovered the Levallois strategy in China at the same time people were making extensive use of it in Europe and Africa.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

Ben Marwick, Associate Professor of Archaeology, University of Washington; Bo Li Principal Research Fellow in Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong; and Hu Yue Postgraduate Student in Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Wollongong

====== 159 ========

THE GARFIELD ASSASSINATION ALTERED AMERICAN HISTORY, BUT IS WOEFULLY FORGOTTEN TODAY

: After a year of deliberations, the National Mall and Memorial Parks and James A. Garfield National Historic Site unveiled two waysides today on the National Mall, on what would have been Garfield's 187th birthday. The dual markers contextualize the shooting of the 20th president by Charles J. Guiteau at the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Station on July 2, 1881, and also interpret Garfield's lasting legacy. The markers are positioned on the National Mall nearest to the south entrance of the National Gallery of Art's West Building, which is where the railroad station once stood. Read how the campaign to create a historical marker got started:

When President James A. Garfield was shot in the back by an assassin on July 2, 1881, the news electrified the country. Garfield was entering the Washington, D.C. train station, headed for summer vacation, when the attack came. Charles Guiteau, the 40-year old assassin—a lawyer, former bill collector, salesman, preacher, divorcee and political hanger-on who’d failed at most things in his life—had stalked the president for weeks. On this morning, he waited inside the train station until President Garfield entered the room, walking in arm-in-arm with his friend, Secretary of State James G. Blaine. Guiteau stepped behind the president and fired two bullets. One grazed Garfield’s arm, and the other hit him square in the back, knocking him to the ground.

As police grabbed Guiteau and started dragging him away, Guiteau declared: “I am a Stalwart and [Vice President Chester Alan] Arthur is now president.”

Telegraph wires instantly flashed the news across the country. Newspapers flooded city streets with extra editions, copies carried by high-speed trains and horseback to every rural hamlet. For the 79 days between Guiteau’s shots and the president’s death, Americans waited breathlessly for medical bulletins from the White House. They followed every change in Garfield’s condition, praying against the worst. During this time, a team of self-serving doctors probed Garfield’s wounds with unwashed fingers and instruments, allowing the President to contract an infection that would ultimately kill him.

More than 100,000 people came to see Garfield’s body lying in state in the Capitol Building Rotunda, and another 150,000 attended his funeral in Cleveland, Ohio. The new president, Chester A. Arthur, declared days of national mourning.

Americans who experienced these events in 1881 had no trouble appreciating the tragedy of Garfield’s death and the importance of his life. Many considered him perhaps the most promising president of their era, despite his having served only four months in office before the shooting. That generation would be shocked to learn that today, in 2018, just 137 years later, Garfield and his story are largely forgotten. Even the spot where the shooting took place, the old Baltimore and Potomac train station, is long gone.

Garfield was the third youngest president when he took office, just 49 when elected in 1880. His five young children, four sons and a daughter, made the White House a happy, playful home, despite his wife Lucretia’s serious fever (probably typhoid) that spring. The morning of the shooting, Garfield himself, at 6 feet tall and 210 pounds, performed handstands for his young sons in their bedroom and tossed them in the air while playing and saying goodbye.

The last president born in a log cabin, Garfield was raised in poverty on the Ohio Western Reserve, worked his way through Williams College, and taught at and became president of Ohio’s Eclectic University (now Hiram College). A lifelong abolitionist, he enlisted in the Union Army, became a captain, and participated in the Civil War battles of Shiloh and Chickamauga.

Elected to Congress in 1863, Garfield played leading roles in almost every major issue of the day. He helped win passage of the 14th and 15th Amendments to the Constitution to guarantee equal rights for freed slaves.

Garfield never actually ran for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1880—he attended the party’s convention that year to support another candidate, fellow-Ohioan John Sherman (brother of Civil War General William Tecumseh Sherman). But after the convention stalemated for 35 ballots, delegates stampeded to an alternative all knew as a competent and intelligent candidate, Garfield himself.

When finally elected president, Garfield had little time to enjoy it. In office, he quickly became embroiled in a signature fight of the era, the struggle against political bosses who strangled the works of government through patronage and spoils. Ultimately, he forced the Senate to abandon its practice called Senatorial Courtesy and confirm a reform-minded Collector of the Port of New York over staunch opposition from New York’s own powerful Senator Roscoe Conkling, who in turn resigned over the conflict.

By winning this fight, James Garfield cleared the way for what he hoped would be a highly productive presidency focused on civil rights, education and economic growth. But this was not to be.

The fight over patronage was the spark that prompted Charles Guiteau, the “disappointed office seeker” as he was called, to decide that James Garfield must be “removed” from office. Guiteau was likely mentally ill, but his insanity was informed by the politics of the day. The shooting of Garfield resulted in adoption of the 1883 Pendleton Civil Service Act, which mandated that government jobs be awarded on merit rather than political affiliation, and was one of the most important political reforms of the late 19th Century.

Garfield is one of just four presidents killed in office, and the sites of the other three attacks are rightly treated as a having major historic importance: Ford’s Theatre in Washington, Dealey Plaza in Dallas, and William McKinley’s assassination site in Buffalo, New York. Each has a marker and displays explaining the history and significance of the event. Garfield deserves the same treatment.

The site, however, presents some challenges. The old Baltimore and Potomac train station, located at 6th and B Streets NW, today’s Constitution Avenue, was long considered an eyesore even before the assassination. Built in the 1870s on landfill over the infested old Washington City Canal, its tracks extended south, splitting the National Mall, shooting soot into the air and causing pedestrian accidents. When Washington’s new Union Station opened nearby in 1907, city officials quickly closed the old depot and had it demolished.

Today, the spot where President Garfield was shot straddles Constitution Avenue between the National Gallery of Art and the Federal Trade Commission across the street, one of the busiest spots in the city. Thousands of locals and tourists alike pass by every day, having no idea of the shocking history that occurred here. On the Mall itself, walkways come within a few feet of the exact spot of the shooting with nothing to mark the spot.

It’s time for Garfield to have his marker too. It’s why I have joined the James Garfield National Historic Site’s initiative to memorialize the spot where an American president’s tenure was cut tragically short. History is too important to let it be forgotten.

====== 160 ========

JOSE GOMEZ-MARQUEZ WANTS TO TURN DOCTORS AND NURSES INTO MAKERS

Jose Gomez-Marquez admits he’s a horrible cook.

“But none of us show our credentials when we walk into the supermarket,” he told his interviewer Deborah Rutter, president of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and the audience gathered at “The Long Conversation,” a Smithsonian event that brought together 25 thinkers for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues at the Arts & Industries Building in Washington, D.C. last December.

The point he was making is that no matter our culinary skills, we all have access to food and an open invitation to give cooking a try.

So how can we create a culture where more people have access to health technology?

If Gomez-Marquez’s analogy holds any weight, it’s simple. “You create a culture where you give everybody permission to do it,” he said.

As the co-director of the Little Devices Lab at MIT, Gomez-Marquez works with a team of engineers and biologists to design tools to empower people to invent their own medical technologies. His group has developed a series of MEDIKits (Medical Education Design and Invention Kits) with simple components that allow nurses and doctors to fashion their own equipment. They’ve also created a system, called Ampli blocks, that consists of modular “plug and play” blocks that can be linked together in different ways to build diagnostic devices. In addition to these toolkits, the lab is working to establish medical maker spaces in hospitals, where doctors and nurses can do “just-in-time inventing”—basically, a place where they can invent something useful for a patient, then go back and treat that individual.

The idea for the Little Devices Lab came out of work Gomez-Marquez was doing in developing countries. He bore witness to the fact that 90 percent of medical devices in the developing world are donated and fail within six months, while an “army of frontline health inventors” are quietly making their own devices to solve many problems.

“We took that inspiration and we said how do we systematize it, how do we spread it as a culture, so that everybody can do this?” said Gomez-Marquez.

Mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Watch it on livestream here.

====== 161 ========

HOW POETRY SOOTHED A NATION IN MOURNING FOR JOHN F. KENNEDY

On that unsettling day 55 years ago this month, the nation began a pageant of tears. President John F. Kennedy was dead of an assassin’s bullet.

Schoolchildren were stunned to see strict and intimidating teachers weeping in the hallways. A Greenwich, Connecticut, mail carrier reported meeting a long line of sobbing housewives as he made his way from house to house. People lined up in front of appliance store windows to watch the latest news on a row of televisions. Before the four-day weekend had ended, more than a million had taken an active role in saying farewell to the president, and millions more had formed an invisible community as television linked living room to living room and brought almost every American within a big tent infused with unsettling questions.

Dazed citizens struggled to regain their equilibrium. Within minutes after gunfire stopped echoing in Dallas’s Dealey Plaza, this murder sent millions reeling, drawing them into a monumental event that would send a shock wave through the nation and create a commonwealth of grief.

In the wake of Kennedy’s death, many newspapers published poetry tied to that weekend. Subsequently, editors Erwin A. Glikes and Paul Schwaber solicited poems about the assassination. Those works, along with some written during Kennedy’s presidency, were compiled into a book published in 1964 and an audio album recorded a year later. Both are entitled Of Poetry and Power: Poems Occasioned by the Presidency and by the Death of President John F. Kennedy, and the album’s tracks are available on Smithsonian Folkways. The album itself, with Irene Dailey and Martin Donegan reading the works, can be found in the Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections at the Smithsonian.

“There is a sad felicity in the fact that the murder of John Fitzgerald Kennedy should have provoked this memorial volume,” wrote historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr, in the forward of the album’s liner notes. Poetry played a prominent role in Kennedy’s vision of America. “He believed that the arts were the source and sign of a serious civilization and one of his constant concerns while in the White House was to accord artists a nation’s belated recognition of their vital role.” The poems, he noted, “convey the impact an emphatic man can have on his times.”

That impact was felt with paralyzing emotions in America’s homes and in its streets, as the nation—both Republican and Democratic—wrestled with an unrelenting sense of disbelief. Many could not imagine such a crime in the United States’ modern democracy. The last presidential assassination had been more than 60 years earlier when William McKinley had been slain in a nation existing before radio, television, automobiles and airplanes had revolutionized American life.

Charles Wright’s “November 22, 1963” captured the hollow shock in the streets of Dallas.

Morning: The slow rising of a cold sun.

Outside of town the suburbs, crosshatched and wan,

Lie like the fingers of some hand. In one

Of these, new, nondescript, an engine starts,

A car door slams, a man drives off. Its gates

Bannered, streets flagged and swept, the city waits.

JFK had been the first president to conduct live televised news conferences, so he visited American homes frequently in an informal capacity. His intelligence and wit permeated both popular and political culture. While what he said was no more profound than the words of wartime leaders like Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, television made him more familiar; his connection, more personal. He still holds the highest average approval rating—70.1 percent—since the Gallup Poll began collecting this data more than 70 years ago. Furthermore, American historians’ most recent rankings place him as the eighth best president and the sole leader in the Top Ten to serve less than a full term.

In concise, sharp phrases, poet Chana Bloch marked JFK’s absence from the airwaves in “Bulletin.”

Is Dead. Is Dead. How all

The radios sound the same.

That static is our seed.

Is dead. We heard. Again.

More like something out of a dream than a part of daily life, that weekend indelibly imprinted scenes in American memory: the riderless horse, the rat-a-tat-tat of the muffled drums, the brave widow, the toddler saluting his father’s casket. The televised murder of the apparent assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, by Jack Ruby reinforced the sense of unreality. What is often absent from American memory is the near-universality of the shared bereavement and the wide range of emotions that struck even those who had been Kennedy’s opponents but never expected his presidency to end like this. When he was gone, few found joy in his absence. The shock, the tears, the shame engulfed America.

Poet Cynthia Ozick portrayed the politics of death in “Footnote to Lord Acton,”

The forgotten speaker,

The alternate delegate,

The trampled demonstrator,

The shunned and shunted eldest statesman with his honed wail unheard,

How irrelevant is death to the pieties of men!

Death the dark, dark horse.

And Robert Hazel, explored the unimaginable grief of the widow and her children in “Riderless Horse:”

Above the muffled drums,

the high voice of a young soldier

tells the white horses how slow to go

before your widow and children, walking

behind the flag-anchored coffin—

and one riderless black horse dancing!

When Air Force One returned home to Andrews Air Force Base about five hours after Kennedy’s death in Dallas, family, friends and officials were there to greet Jacqueline Kennedy, the casket and the nation’s new president, a shaken Lyndon B. Johnson. However, these dignitaries were not alone. Hidden in the darkness behind a fence stood 3,000 anonymous Americans, largely unseen. During the autopsy at Bethesda Naval Hospital, thousands more entered the hospital grounds. When the body finally left Bethesda on its way to the White House at around 4 a.m. on November 23, author William Manchester reported that members of the official party saw “men in denim standing at attention beside cars halted at intersections, and all-night filling station attendants were facing the ambulance, their caps over their hearts.” Unofficial cars joined the ghostly caravan to the White House.

The palpable grief for the young dead father and husband is painted vividly and gruesomely in Richard O’Connell’s “Nekros”

A head dropped back and dying

Pouring blood from its skull . . .

All history stark in that flow

The next day, the family and close friends remained mostly hidden within the White House, planning a well-choreographed, unforgettable funeral while confronting the first awkward moments of the transition from a young, clever and eloquent president to a plain-speaking, drawling Southerner who practiced the in-your-face, in-your-space politics of friendly intimidation. Johnson was a consummate politician, something Kennedy was not, and the new president possessed none of the intellectual aura and glamour that surrounded his predecessor.

On Sunday, the mourning again invited public participation. Late that morning, Washington sidewalks filled with 300,000 Americans gathered to watch a caisson deliver the president’s body to a funeral bier in the Capitol. At 3 p.m., the stately palace of the nation’s lawmakers opened its doors to a constantly replenished stream of 250,000 Americans, some waiting in line ten hours, to walk past the catafalque and say their goodbyes. On Monday morning, 5,000 people waiting in line were turned away. Preparations for the funeral had to begin.

Poet David Ignatow fled ritual, seeking reality in “Before the Sabbath”

Good father of emptiness,

you keep saying over and over

in the birth of children

that we are not born to die,

but the mind is dulled,

for the man is gone on a Friday

before the Sabbath of the world remade.

Smiling, he is dead,

too quickly to explain.

More than a million lined the capital’s streets to see the coffin travel from the Capitol to the White House and then stood amazed as international figures such as French General Charles de Gaulle and Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie followed Jacqueline, Robert and Edward Kennedy in a walk through the streets to St. Matthew’s Cathedral where the funeral Mass occurred. Afterwards, a line of official cars passed crowded sidewalks as it followed the casket to Arlington National Cemetery.

The stark rhythm of that moment resonated in William Butler’s “November 25, 1963” .

Drums, drums, I too am dead.

I breathe no breath, but only dread.

I have no soul, but lay my head

Upon his soul, and on that bed

I stop.

Audiences at home had a more intimate view inside the Capitol, within the cathedral and at the cemetery, where the Kennedys lit the eternal flame. The Nielsen ratings estimated that the average American home tuned into assassination-related events for 31.6 hours over four days. Many American children attended their first funeral when they watched services for JFK. Even to most adults, the Latin funeral Mass for the nation’s first Roman Catholic president was something new.

John Berryman’s anger at the senseless loss erupted in his “Formal Elegy”

A hurdle of water, and O these waters are cold

(warm at outset) in the dirty end.

Murder on murder on murder, where I stagger,|

whiten the good land where we have held out.

These kills were not for loot,

however Byzantium hovers in the mind:

were matters of principle—that’s worst of all—

& fear and crazed mercy.

Ruby, with his mad claim,

he shot to spare the Lady’s testifying,

probably is sincere.

No doubt, in his still cell, his mind sits pure.

Smithsonian Folkways sprang from a decision to acquire “extinct record companies” and preserve their work, according to Jeff Place, curator and senior archivist of Folkways. Moses Asch, Folkways founder, wanted to create “documentation of sound,” Place explains, and he wanted to share the sounds with a broad spectrum of the population rather than serving as an archive. Understanding the written materials that accompanied each recording plays a vital part in the process.

The spoken poems written about JFK’s death fit into the Folkways collection well, Place says. Folkways has other documentary recordings on topics including the U.S. presidency, the Watergate scandal, the House Un-American Activities Committee and other political themes.

As the texts within Of Poetry and Power reveal, JFK’s assassination struck a raw emotional chord that still rasps through the nation’s psyche. Trust in government has collapsed since his death. The Pew Research Center’s survey for 2017 showed only 3 percent believed the government could be trusted to do the right thing “just about always” and just 15 percent believed the government could be trusted “most of the time.” Trust hit an all-time high of 77 percent in 1964 as Americans clung to Lyndon Johnson like a sinking ship in featureless ocean; by 1967, distrust inspired by the Vietnam war—and growing belief in an assassination conspiracy—had begun to take hold.

====== 162 ========

SMITHSONIAN ADDS ARTHUR JAFA’S “LOVE IS THE MESSAGE, THE MESSAGE IS DEATH” TO THE COLLECTIONS

Arthur Jafa’s 2016 video Love is the Message, The Message is Death is a striking seven-and-a-half-minute display of the power and perils of the African-American experience, all set to Kanye West’s hit Ultralight Beam. The piece made its Smithsonian debut at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden November 2017 as part of the exhibition, "The Message: New Media Works," which closed in September. Now, Jafa’s seminal work officially joins the Smithsonian collections as the first joint acquisition between the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Hirshhorn.

“As part of SAAM’s collection, Jafa’s piece resonates powerfully with more than three centuries of artists engaging with America's racial complexities,” says Stephanie Stebich, director of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, noting the significance of the artwork for each of the museums. “Within the context of the Hirshhorn’s international contemporary art galleries, it stands as a defining work of 21st-century media art,” she says.

As a combination of found and original film, Love is the Message, The Message is Death knits together a century’s worth of video contrasting sensationalized and vilified blackness with images of joy, family and faith in the African-American community. Silent film reels are cut with present-day news coverage, music videos and footage Jafa shot himself or otherwise found online. The ordinary everyday happenings of a people as performers, worshippers, athletes, activists is threaded with the insult of having to live alongside hate, bigotry and destruction. Images and frames bleed into each other and bursts of sound disrupt Kanye and Kirk Franklin’s ethereal musings.

Says the Hirshhorn's director Melissa Chiu, the artist is “unapologetically bold" and "one of the most provocative" working today.

Saisha Grayson, who is the Smithsonian American Art Museum's curator of time-based media has viewed the work dozens of times. “I cry every time,” she says. “I cry at different parts, for different reasons, but I’m never not profoundly moved.”

As are most viewers, she suspects. During the weeks following Donald Trump’s presidential win in November 2016, thousands upon thousands of New Yorkers made their way to Harlem to see Love is the Message at the gallery where it had just debuted. The New Yorker designated the work “required viewing.”

To Grayson, Love is the Message, The Message is Death manages to be both timely and timeless. The video, she says, “speaks in the language of our time,” resonating as a “contemporary Guernica,” Pablo Picasso’s famous oil painting interpretation of the 1937 bombing of the northern Spanish town. Similarly, Grayson says the artwork forces individuals who would otherwise be desensitized to racial violence, or who cope with their trauma alone, to “look and think collectively about this national tragedy.”

SAAM’s third floor, where contemporary time-based media art like Jafa’s is usually displayed, is currently housing the immense Trevor Paglen exhibition, "Sites Unseen." So, museum goers may have to allow the museum some time to organize suitable programming before Love is the Message makes its SAAM debut. Similarily, there are no details yet on when the video will return for viewing at the Hirshhorn Museum.

====== 163 ========

HOW PHOTOGRAPHER ALFRED WERTHEIMER CAPTURED ELVIS PRESLEY’S KISS

Related Content When Elvis Met Nixon

Editors Note, November 16, 2018: In honor of what would have been Alfred Wertheimer's 89th birthday today. We are resurfacing this interview with the photographer, who died at age 84 in 2014. An exhibition of his photographs of Elvis Presley appeared at the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery in 2010 and we interviewed Wertheimer at the time.

In 1956, a young freelance photographer named Alfred Wertheimer was hired to travel with a young regional singer named Elvis Presley to document the performer's first national tour. Wertheimer snapped more than 2,000 images on his 10-day assignment, and 56 are now on view in "Elvis at 21," a traveling exhibition that just opened at the National Portrait Gallery (see a selection here). I spoke with Wertheimer about his experiences photographing the King.

What do you find special about the photos you took at age 26—so early in your career?

All the images that I took are really of the authentic Elvis, who was directing his own life. That’s what I think may be quite unique about the whole show. After all, in almost everything that Elvis did, starting with his early career, somebody was telling him what to do. Nobody really said to him: "Elvis, just be yourself, and we’ll tag along, and every once in a while we’ll grab something that we think is interesting, and we won’t ask you to do anything special for us, no posing, just go and live your life." That’s essentially what I did. Because not only was I shy, but he was shy also in a way, and I did not expect any more from him than to be himself.

What was your relationship with Elvis like? How do you think he allowed you to take so many photographs?

I think most of the time Elvis didn’t even know I was taking photographs. See, I had practiced to become an available light photographer, because I did not use strobe or flash, except in rare occasions where it was absolutely pitch black. The other thing is that Elvis had a feeling, I think, that he knew he was going to become very famous, but nobody else did. In order to become famous, you have to have somebody recording your actions at the time when you’re doing things. And what better way of doing that than to allow a photographer, who is very inconspicuous himself, and allow him to be close to you, so that when you do things, it’s recorded for posterity.

How did you shoot the "Kiss"?

I was in the men's room on the floor above the stage area at the Mosque Theater in Richmond, Virginia, on June 30 of 1956. I got more or less sidetracked and then I turned around and said: “Where’s Elvis?” Elvis had disappeared. I go down the stairs of the theater. I get down to the landing where the stage area is. You’ve now got 3,000 kids, mostly girls, in there, and the "Elvis Presley Show" is going on; except there’s no Elvis Presley around. I look down this long, narrow passageway, the light at the end of the tunnel. There’s a silhouette of two people at the far end, and I say, “Oh yes, there’s Elvis, with a girl, his date for the day.” Do I interrupt them? Do I squeeze off a frame or two from a distance or do I go closer in? Well, you start off becoming a human tripod, because you don’t want to start using flash. It’s really quite dark.

So then you decide, well, if I get closer and Elvis gets annoyed, he might say, “Al, get out of here, you’ve had it, go back to New York, don’t bother.” But, if I don’t shoot it, I can’t really consider myself a journalist. After all, I came here to do the story, and that’s part of the story. There’s a handrail on the left side. So I move up about five feet, and they’re busy, they’re intently involved with themselves. So I climb up on the handrail, and I wrap my legs around these metal tubes, and I’m now shooting over her shoulder, into his face. I’m getting close-ups. Nobody’s paying any attention to me because when people are doing things that are more important to themselves than having their picture taken, you usually get good pictures. It’s a simple formula.

So now I’m not satisfied, typically. I’m not satisfied with what? I’m not satisfied with back lighting. I want front lighting. But the only way to get front lighting is to go beyond where they are. So I put on my best maintenance man voice and say, “Excuse me, coming through.” I squeeze past the two of them. Again they don’t pay attention to me because they’re like hypnotizing each other. I’m now set on the landing facing the two of them, and I’m setting myself with the frame. It’s a fairly decent composition, and I’m waiting for something to happen within my frame. She says to him: “Elvis, I’ll betcha can’t kiss me,” and she sticks out her tongue just a teeny bit. And he says, “I’ll betcha I can,” in a very masculine, cool way. And he then approaches the kiss, he’s got his tongue stuck out just a wee bit, and he overshoots the mark. I didn’t realize that till I developed my film later on. He bent her nose, you see, a very romantic view. So now he backs off coolly, and tries it a second time, comes in for a perfect landing, and that’s the end of that. That tenth of a second became history.

You were a young freelancer at the time you took these photos. Do you have any words of advice for those in a similar place in their lives who can only hope for a moment in their careers such as this?

You know, I’ve done quite a few assignments, but the one assignment that people still want to see more and more of is the Elvis material. And in a way, that is almost unpredictable. On the one hand, you have to do the best you can with every chance you get at an assignment. On the other hand, because the Colonel was so uptight about allowing other media in and behind the scenes, my stuff took on much greater value than it really had a right to have. Most things of interest really happen behind closed doors. How do you get behind closed doors? I’m not talking about being technically competent to handle the problem once you get behind these closed doors, but your first job is to get in. Then you can quietly stay out of the way. Don’t kick the furniture over. Don’t bump into any microphone stands if you’re in a recording studio. And be curious.

If your pictures are too dull, generally it means that you aren’t close enough, so get a little closer. But don’t get so close that you become an annoyance. That’s all the difference in being able to use a wider-angle lens and still fill the frame with information and get texture. Texture is the thing that gives a photograph life. I mean, without texture it’s boring. It’s flat. Texture of the clothing, texture of the metal, texture of the pavement, texture of the guitar, texture of the skin. All of these things add up to believability, realism of sorts. I was into realism.

====== 164 ========

WEASEL-LIKE FOSSILS REVEAL EVOLUTIONARY CLUES OF THE FIRST MAMMALS

We tend to think of paleontology as an epic quest into the desert to recover pristine fossils, where groundbreaking discoveries are made by sun-singed explorers who stumble across the full skeletons of long-extinct behemoths. But this picture of fossil science isn’t how many important discoveries come to light. Sometimes stunning finds remain secret, even from scientists, until samples make it back to the lab. Such is the case with a distant protomammal relative of ours who was found with an entire litter of babies.

University of Texas at Austin graduate student Eva Hoffman detailed the discovery at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology meeting in Albuquerque last month, and the findings have also been published in Nature.

The story of the special specimen goes back to 2000, Hoffman says. In that year, her advisor Timothy Rowe was searching the 185 million-year-old rock of Arizona for skeletons of a peculiar animal called Kayentatherium. This dog-sized animal was an ancient cousin of ours, belonging to a group called tritylodonts that has been associated with the evolution of the earliest mammals.

Among the finds during the 2000 field season was a Kayentatherium skeleton that time hadn’t treated very kindly. The bones of the skeleton had fallen out of articulation, Hoffman says, and the quality of the bone wasn’t ideal for analysis. Nevertheless, that year’s expedition collected the fossil and some of the surrounding stone for further study.

Nine years later, the secret of this skeleton finally became known. In 2009, preparator Sebastian Eggberts held up part of the stone surrounding the Kayentatherium skeleton and noticed a tiny jaw. The itty-bitty fossil looked just like the jaw of the adult, and researchers soon realized that there were dozens of baby Kayentatherium fossils contained within the rock samples.

“While we can never be 100 percent certain of the association between the adult and offspring, it seems like the most reasonable interpretation in this case,” says University of Washington paleontologist Christian Sidor. The fact that Kayentatherium and its kin are thought to have been digging animals, Sidor adds, could mean that the adult and babies were buried together in some kind of den.

Preparing the fossil by mechanical means was out of the question once the babies were discovered, lest any tiny bones be accidentally destroyed. Rowe’s lab started making digital scans of the fossil block to see what else might be inside, which became Hoffman’s project in 2016. When she was done, she counted the remains of 38 baby Kayentatherium alongside the adult.

This was quite a surprise. Previous research emphasized how Kayentatherium and its relatives had evolved to become rather mammal-like, Hoffman says, sharing traits with the first shrew-like mammals that appeared about 160 million years ago. But such a large clutch size fits a more reptilian way of reproducing than the typically mammalian method of having smaller litters which receive more parental care.

“What we see in the Kayentatherium babies is that their faces are very similar to the faces of the adults, so when they grow up they basically just scale up the same shape,” Hoffman says. This type of development is similar to the way baby reptiles grow after hatching, but distinct from mammalian growth in which babies often have short, big-eyed, cute faces that significantly change as they grow. Furthermore, the hands and wrists of the baby Kayentatherium were already structurally strong. When they hatched out of their eggs—just like the modern platypus or echidna—the Kayentatherium babies were ready to get moving.

The research provides clues to how our Jurassic ancestors went from a more reptile-like mode of reproduction to something resembling the propogation of modern mammals, but to find the transition point, additional analysis and discovery are needed. While some experts place animals like Kayentatherium close to the evolutionary lineage that spawned mammals, others see them as more distant protomammal cousins, Sidor says. Likewise, even closely-related reptiles can have different modes of reproduction, so what may have been true for Kayentatherium may not have been true for other species.

Still, Sidor says, “this is a really important and spectacular discovery,” particularly because the find fills in details of the life and behavior of Kayentatherium that experts never expected to find.

“This is a find that shows the importance of the fossil record,” Hoffman says. Without physical evidence of association between an adult and juveniles, the way animals like Kayentatherium reproduced would have remained obscured by a 185-million-year gap in time.

The most spectacular finds are not always as obvious as a giant dinosaur skeleton embedded in the bedrock, and this family of Kayentatherium serves as a reminder to “keep an eye out for stuff you’re not necessarily looking for,” Hoffman says, as there are surely more surprises waiting in the rock.

====== 165 ========

THE LEANING TOWER OF PISA HAS GOTTEN A LITTLE STRAIGHTER

Since the early days of its construction, the Leaning Tower of Pisa has been plagued by its now-characteristic tilt. Work began on the bell tower in 1172; by the time builders reached the second floor, the building had started to lean. In more recent years, experts worried that the tower would topple over entirely. But as the Agence France-Presse reports, Italian engineers recently announced that the Leaning Tower of Pisa is not only in good structural health, but is also leaning a little less.

Nunziante Squeglia, an engineering professor at the University of Pisa and a member of the committee that monitors the tower, revealed that the famed structure has straightened by four centimeters (about 1.5 inches). He added that the good news is the result of a lengthy conservation effort that spanned from 1990 to 2001, during which time the tower was closed to visitors.

“We knew those measures would have protracted consequences,” Squeglia said, according to Elisabetta Povoledo of the New York Times. Engineers did not predict, however, that the structure would reduce its tilt.

The Leaning Tower of Pisa is part of a cathedral complex known as “Il Campo dei Miracoli,” or the “Field of Miracles.” The structure slumps because it was built on soft, shifting ground. Due to interruptions caused by conflict, financial setbacks and structural issues, it took nearly 200 years for the tower to be completed, which was in fact quite fortuitous. If the soil beneath the tower had not had time to compress, the entire building would have likely collapsed.

Still, the tower wasn’t in great shape. Over the centuries, it continued to slump until its tilt reached nearly 15 feet from the vertical. Experts worried it would collapse “at any moment.”

The conservation project that took place more than two decades ago saw workers put hundreds of tons of lead counterweights at the base of the tower and remove soil from its foundations, reports the Associated Press. In 2008, the engineers announced that the building had stopped moving for the first time in its 800-year history, and that the tower was 19 inches straighter as a result of efforts to salvage it.

To make sure that it continues its upward trajectory, the tower is carefully monitored and the number of visitors allowed inside the building is capped. But the site’s iconic lean isn’t going anywhere quickly. Squeglia said it would take “around 4,000 years” for the tilt to straighten entirely, according to the Times’ Povoledo, leaving plenty of time for tourists to take the obligatory “straightening the Leaning Tower” photo.

====== 166 ========

WHALES CHANGE THEIR TUNE EVERY FEW YEARS

As they glide through the ocean, mighty humpback whales belt out complex melodies of moans, cries and squeaks. These sing-a-longs can last for hours, and males in a given population are known to transmit tunes to one another; they add their own twists to the song, which are then picked up by other males. (Females don’t appear to sing.) Gradually, the songs spread between populations, so that a tune from an Indian Ocean population, for instance, might crop up among humpbacks of the South Pacific—like an ocean-wide game of telephone.

Now, as Roni Dengler reports for Discover, a new study has found that humpback whale songs don’t stay the same forever. The melodies evolve to become increasingly complex over a period of a few years until, suddenly, the whales drop the tune for a new and simpler song—something that the authors of the study, published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, deem a “cultural revolution.”

A team led by marine biologist Jenny Allen of the University of Queensland analyzed recordings of eastern Australian humpback whales, taken over the course of 13 consecutive years. In total, according to Virginia Morell of Science, they looked at 412 song cycles from 95 singers, scoring the ditties’ complexity based on the number of sounds, themes and variations.

The researchers found that the songs gradually evolve to become longer and include more parts, possibly due to flourishes that individual males come up with to distinguish themselves from the rest of the chorus. Scientists don’t know precisely why male humpbacks sing, but some have theorized that they are putting on an acoustic performance to attract females—or even to impress their male buddies.

“Since all the males in a population sing the same song, small changes might be an opportunity to stand out from the crowd,” Allen tells Dengler.

Every few years, however, the whales abandon their sophisticated melody in favor of a sparser song. The researchers aren’t sure why, but paring down the tune might give humpbacks a new opportunity to add their own embellishments. In a University of Queensland video, Allen compares the whales’ shifting song preferences to the ebb and flow of fashion trends among humans.

“When a new fashion trend comes in, everybody wants to look new and slightly different,” she says, “so everybody will incorporate that fashion trend until it becomes the norm.”

It is also possible that, after a certain point, the whales just can’t keep up with the increasingly elaborate songs. There may be “a limit to the whales’ capacity to learn new material,” Allen explains.

But make no mistake: humpback whales are highly sophisticated creatures. Their ability to transmit songs, not just within populations, but also between them, “is cultural transmission on a scale comparable to what we find in people,” according to Allen. Having a better understand of what drives cultural and social learning in whales could, therefore, help scientists gain new insight into why these traits have evolved with unparalleled complexity in humans.

====== 167 ========

ANTS TAKE SICK DAYS, TOO

When you come down with a cold or the flu, you might opt to keep your distance from other people in order to spare them from a similarly sniffly fate—and they in turn might steer clear of you. According to a new study, humans are not alone in their efforts to sequester the sick. In the presence of contagious pathogens, humble garden ants may also change their behavior to keep contaminated critters away from other members of the colony.

Ants are social creatures. They live in large groups, communicating and co-operating with one another to make sure that the colony functions as it should. Because they are often in close contact, ants are also vulnerable to contagious diseases. Studies have shown that ants are able to keep illness at bay through a number of hygienic mechanisms, like removing garbage and the bodies of dead colony members from their nests. Scientists suspected that the insects might also tweak their social behavior to decrease the spread of infections, but this hypothesis was, until recently, hard to prove.

“Ant colonies have hundreds of individuals,” explains Nathalie Stroeymeyt, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, who studies collective behavior in ant colonies. “Up to now, there was just not the technical methodology to measure their interactions at the colony level over extended periods of time.”

Fortunately, an automated tracking system developed by Swiss researchers in 2013 let Stroeymeyt and her colleagues get a detailed look at how 22 lab-reared ant colonies behave when disease is percolating in their midst. The team glued tiny 2D barcodes onto the ants’ thoraxes, which gave each insect a unique identifier—“just like a QR code,” Stroeymeyt says. A camera positioned above the ants’ enclosures snapped two pictures every second, and an algorithm detected and recorded the position of each barcode, giving the researchers’ a wealth of data about the ants’ movements.

For four days, the team let the ants scurry about in their enclosure undisturbed. As with colonies in the wild, some of the ants worked outside the nest to forage for food, while others—like the queen and “nurses” that tend to the developing brood—stayed inside the nest. On the fifth day, the researchers exposed some, but not all, of the foragers from 11 colonies to the fungus Metarhizium brunneum, which is frequently found in the soil of garden ants’ habitats and is known to make them sick. Foragers from the other 11 colonies were treated with a benign solution, to serve as a control group.

Crucially, previous studies have shown that the M. brunneum fungus takes at least 24 hours to infect ants, which in turn gave the researchers time to observe the insects before they were actually sick.

“We wanted to focus on [this] period … so that we could distinguish the active reaction of the ants themselves from side effects of sickness or parasite manipulation,” Stroeymeyt explains.

Writing in the journal Science, the researchers reveal that when the foragers were put back in their enclosure, the contaminated ants spent more time outside of the nest, meaning that they had less contact with the colony’s most valuable members: the queen, who lays all of the colony’s eggs, and the indoor workers, who are younger than the foragers and therefore have more hours to contribute to the colony. (Older ants are tasked with risky foraging jobs outside the nest because, as Stroeymeyt bluntly puts it, they “will die anyways.”)

But the crux of the study lies in the discovery that the contaminated ants weren’t the only ones to change their behavior. Foragers that had not been exposed to the fungus also increased the amount of time spent away from the nest. And the nurses inside the nest moved the young further inward and spent more time overlapping with them, which “could be seen as a spatial isolation from the foragers,” Stroeymeyt says.

How did the colony know to spring into disease-preventing action before the fungal spores had even infected certain foragers? The researchers aren’t certain, but the ants’ keen sense of smell could be key. Ants sniff around with their antennae, which are constantly touching and sampling the insects’ surroundings. It is entirely possible, according to Stroeymeyt, that an ant would be able to detect a festering fungus on one of its colony members, just as easily as it would be able to smell a pathogen on its own body.

Why non-contaminated foragers also decreased the amount of time spent in the nest is another interesting question. As the first line of contact with their soon-to-be-ill workmates, they may have somehow known to stay away from important members of the colony. But it is also possible that, having detected pathogens on their fellow foragers, they simply spent more time treating the contaminated workers outside the nest. Ants produce formic acid through a gland on the tip of their gaster, or abdomen; they can kill fungal spores on one another by picking up formic acid in their mouths and licking the bodies of their pathogen-laden buddies.

Although the researchers recorded fewer interactions between foragers and indoor workers, contact did not cease entirely—and this led to yet another interesting revelation. When they used simulations to model how fungal pathogens spread throughout the colony in the face of the ants’ social network changes, the researchers found that the probability of the queen and nurses receiving a potentially fatal load of the fungus went down, but the probability of these important ants receiving a low load went up.

“That's similar to immunization or vaccination in humans,” Stroeymeyt explains. “These low doses don't lead to mortality, but they allow the ant to develop some sort of protection against later exposure with the same pathogen. That [finding] is also something that's quite new.”

Moving forward, Stroeymeyt plans to investigate how pathogens trigger social changes in wild ant colonies, which can number into the hundreds of thousands; she suspects that segregation between indoor and outdoor workers might be even more pronounced in these large groups.

Megan Frederickson, an associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Toronto who was not involved in the new study, calls the researchers’ conclusions “a novel and exciting finding” brought about by “cutting-edge methods.” She adds that similar technology might help scientists study whether ants also change their social networks to transmit beneficial microbes to one another. And Frederickson thinks “the significance [of the study] even goes beyond ants.”

“I wonder,” she muses, “how often other social animals reorganize their networks to limit the spread of disease.”

====== 168 ========

NEWLY DISCOVERED ARTIFACTS REIGNITE FEUD OVER WHICH TOWN IS CONNECTICUT’S OLDEST

To an outsider, the Connecticut towns of Windsor and Wethersfield appear to be pretty similar. They are both about equidistant from the city of Hartford along the Connecticut River and Interstate 91. Both start with a “W.” And both are old, dating back to the 1600s. But for the last century, the two burgs have quarreled about one big sticking point: which one is the oldest English settlement in the state? The Associated Press reports that an archaeological dig at Wethersfield, which is bringing up lots of very old material, has reignited the friendly rivalry.

The dispute centers around which of the towns can really say it was a permanent settlement. Colonists from Plymouth, Massachusetts, the story goes, set up a trading post at the present site of Windsor in 1633. People did not officially build homes there, making it permanent, however, until 1635. In the interim, in 1634, emigrants from Watertown, Mass, moved into Wethersfield, building a true settlement.

Then there’s the legal establishment of the towns. “It’s been going back for years and years and years. More than 100 years, a very friendly rivalry between Windsor and Wethersfield,” Amy Northrop Wittorff, executive director of the Wethersfield Historical Society, tells Heather Burian at NBC News. “[Wethersfield] legally received permission to become a town in May 1635. Our neighbors in Windsor got their permission in June 1635,” she explains.

The question, the AP reports, hinges on what your definition of a town is. Is it a legalentity or a permanently occupied site? Can a trading post be considered a town? The people of Windsor think so. “We consider Windsor the first English settlement in Connecticut because it was continuously occupied since that Sept. 26, 1633 date,” Christine Ermenc, executive director of the Windsor Historical Society tells Burian.

Steven Goode at the Hartford Courant reports both towns derive their identity from the claim. Windsor’s motto is straight to the point: “First in Connecticut.” Wethersfield’s slogan is more flourished: “Ye Most Ancient Towne.”

Archaeologists from the nonprofit Public Archaeology Survey Team recently threw a wrench into the debate. Between 2016 and this year, the team excavated a site near Wethersfield, where a new museum is slated to be built.

Ray Hardman at Connecticut Public Radio reports that ground penetrating radar at the site revealed three disturbed areas, including two very old trash pits and a 20th-century site. The dig uncovered 20,000 objects dating all the way back to the 1630s, including the earliest hard evidence of English settlement in Connecticut. The artifacts of the era included coins, ceramics, trade goods and a defensive fence that would have protected the site from Native American attack.

“The 17th-century stuff was the most exciting because nobody knew it would be here,” Sarah Sportman, senior archaeologist on the team, tells the AP. “We have been able to document the lives of the people who live here.”

Ermenc is quick to assert to the AP that the artifacts don’t change Windsor’s stance, and that written records including settler’s diaries give points to team Windsor. “It doesn’t change our opinion,” she says. “We maintain that Windsor really is the earliest European settlement.”

====== 169 ========

RAPA NUI REPRESENTATIVES VISIT BRITISH MUSEUM TO DISCUSS REPATRIATION OF MOAI STATUE

Representatives of Easter Island’s indigenous Rapa Nui community met with officials from the British Museum this week to make an impassioned plea for the return of Hoa Hakananai’a, a sculpted basalt head removed from the island in 1868. The visit represents the culmination of a renewed recovery campaign sparked by Easter Island mayor Pedro Edmunds’ August appeal to the museum—and, as Naomi Rea reports for artnet News, marks the first time the London institution has agreed to enter discussions regarding the famed sculpture.

The imposing head’s fate remains unclear: Museum officials accepted an invitation to visit Easter Island and continue talks there, but a spokesperson emphasized the possibility of a loan rather than outright repatriation, telling the Times’ Tom Whipple that “the museum is one of the world’s leading lenders and the trustees will always consider loan requests subject to usual conditions.”

For the Rapa Nui, the statue’s 150-year absence is a visceral personal loss. As John Bartlett explains for the Guardian, the islanders believe the sculpture and its 900 or so extant compatriots, collectively known as Moai, are living incarnations of deceased relatives.

“We want the museum to understand that the Moai are our family, not just rocks,” Anakena Manutomatoma, a member of the island’s development commission, tells Bartlett.

Hoa Hakananai’a dates to roughly 1200 A.D. and is one of around 900 Moai carved by Easter Islanders between 1100 and 1600 A.D. The sculpture’s name, which translates to “lost or stolen friend,” offers an apt summary of its tangled provenance: Richard Powell, captain of the British Royal Navy frigate H.M.S. Topaze, spotted the statue on a clifftop while exploring the area back in 1868. Hoping to win the favor of his queen, Powell took both Hoa Hakananai’a and a smaller statue known as Hava back to England. The following year, Queen Victoria donated both sculptures to the British Museum.

The Rapa Nui’s latest repatriation effort has at least one powerful backer: the government of Chile, as represented during the London visit by National Assets Minister Felipe Ward. Chile annexed Easter Island, situated some 2,480 miles west of its capital city of Santiago, back in 1888 and made it a special territory in 2007. Under Chilean law, the Moai are deemed an “integral part of the land” rather than artifacts. Since last year, however, the indigenous group has regained control of its ancestral heritage when Chile’s then-president Michelle Bachelet returned the Moai and ancestral archaeological sites on the island to the Rapa Nui community in late November 2017. (They had been controlled by the Chilean National Forest Corporation since 1972.)

Chilean lawyer Paz Zarate tells the Times’ Whipple that the four-ton statue is one of the island’s most significant. Not only is it one of the few surviving constructed of basalt (the majority are made of soft volcanic tuff), but it is also unusually well-preserved. Carvings associated with the Tangata Manu, or “bird man” cult, adorn the sculpture’s back.

According to a separate BBC News article written by John Bartlett, Rapa Nui sculptor Benedicto Tuki has offered to create an exact replica of Hoa Hakananai’a in hopes of facilitating the real monolith’s return.

“Perhaps in the past we did not attach so much importance to Hoa Hakananai'a and his brothers,” Tuki says, “but nowadays people on the island are starting to realise just how much of our heritage there is around the world and starting to ask why our ancestors are in foreign museums."

For now, Hoa Hakananai'a will remain on view in the British Museum’s Wellcome Trust Gallery. But with a second discussion and trip to Easter Island in the works, the Rapa Nui remain hopeful. In the meantime, Tuki tells Bartlett, he and his peers will work toward the eventual goal of securing the return of all lost Moai—including those currently held on the Chilean mainland.

“We are just a body,” Easter Island governor Tarita Alarcón Rapu told press during the delegation’s London visit. “You, the British people, have our soul.”

====== 170 ========

FRENCH REPORT RECOMMENDS THE FULL RESTITUTION OF LOOTED AFRICAN ARTWORKS

In December of last year, French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech in Burkina Faso, promising to push for the return of African artifacts held in French museums. Now, a report commissioned by Macron recommends that he move forward with his plan by allowing the full repatriation of African artworks taken without consent from their countries of origin.

According to the Agence France-Presse, the report will be presented to Macron this week, but copies have been viewed by a number of media outlets. The document was researched and written by the French art historian Bénédicte Savoy and the Senegalese writer Felwine Sarr, whom Macron recruited to draw up proposals for repatriation.

The report focuses on items that were taken by soldiers, administrators or scientific explorers during France’s colonial period, which spanned from the 19th century until 1960s. African nations have in the past appealed for the return of such cultural artifacts, but French law currently prohibits museums from permanently handing over accessioned objects, reports Zacahry Small of Hyperallergic. Savoy and Sarr recommend that “legal mechanisms” be implemented to “allow the final and unconditional return of heritage objects to the African continent.” Then, the report puts forth a three-pronged plan for repatriation, according to Farah Nayeri of the New York Times.

Within the next year, the report states, France should seek to return several “largely symbolic” objects that have long been requested by African nations—like the statues and palace treasures that were taken from Abomey, in modern-day Benin, by the French military in 1892.

Between next spring and November 2022, French museums should collaborate with African officials to make inventories of items in their collections. The report also suggests that joint committees should examine restitution requests, and return “works judged to be important by the nation-states and communities concerned.”

In the final phase, according to the report, African nations that have not made restitution claims should do so, because the “process of restitution should not be limited in time.”

Changes in repatriation policies in France may put pressure on other European museums that have been asked to return looted cultural artifacts.

There are concerns within the museum community about what large-scale repatriation would look like in practice. Some institutions have sourced large portions of their collections from Africa; the Quai Branly Museum in Paris, for instance, features 70,000 sub-Saharan African relics.

Speaking to the Times’ Nayeri, Savoy stresses that “[t]here is no question, either for us or for our African counterparts, of emptying French or European museums to fill up African ones.” Instead, she says, the report’s recommendations seek to achieve “a rebalancing of the geography of African heritage in the world, which is currently extremely imbalanced, as European museums have almost everything, and African museums have almost nothing.”

The report also suggests that museums replace repatriated items with replicas.

To make these recommendations legally binding, Macron will have to push legislation through France’s parliament, “which has increasingly distanced itself from the European leader,” according to Hyperallergic’s Small. But for advocates of repatriation, the report is nevertheless a move in the right direction. Marie-Cecile Zinsou, president of the Zinsou Art Foundation in Benin, tells the AFP that “it feels as if we’re just a step away from recovering our history and being finally able to share it on the continent.”

====== 171 ========

BROWN RECLUSE SILK IS STRONGER THAN STEEL BECAUSE IT’S CONSTRUCTED LIKE A CABLE

Spider silk is often touted as some of the strongest material on Earth: According to some calculations, it can be up to five times stronger than steel cable of similar weight—though that comparison is not perfect. If humans could manufacture spider silk on an industrial scale, which they’ve been trying to do for decades, it could lead to an era of lightweight bulletproof vests, helmets, superstrong threads and patches that could be used during surgery and even lightweight airplane fuselages. One major problem, however, is that scientists don’t know exactly what makes spider silk so strong and stretchy. Recent studies, however, are beginning to unravel the mystery.

One reason spider silk has been difficult to figure out is that the strands of silk are super thin and getting a good look at the cylindrical threads under a microscope is difficult. Courtney Miceli at Science reports that’s why researchers at the College of William & Mary have concentrated on silk from the brown recluse spider, which produces a flat ribbon that is easier to examine using atomic force microscopy to look at the strands at the molecular level. That level of detail is necessary—the silk strands can be as tiny as 1/1000th the size of a human hair.

In their latest study in the journal ACS Macro Letters, the team found that instead of being one long strand of protein, the ribbon of silk is composed entirely of 1 micron-long nanostrands stuck together in parallel. Typically, about 2,500 of these mini-strands clung together to form one strand of silk.

“We were expecting to find that the fiber was a single mass,” co-author Hannes Schniepp of William & Mary says in a statement. “But what we found was that the silk was actually a kind of tiny cable.”

This isn't the team's first silken discovery either. In a 2017 study, they looked closely at how the little arachnids spin their silk, finding that they create tiny loops which add toughess to the fibers. Each strand has up to 500 loops per inch. Miceli reports that previous studies had proposed that nanostrands were involved in the makeup of the silk, but no one had considered that the entire strand would be composed of them. Armed with the new research and information about the loops, the researchers have now created a new model for the spider silk’s structure. The nanotendrils aren't braided together like in a rope cable, but are instead stuck together with relativley weak bonds. When they act as a whole, however, the strands give the silk its incredible strength.

Another study published in late October is also helping researchers make sense of spider silk. Scientists examining black widow spiders have figured out the complex process that transforms amino acids, the raw material for the webs, into actual spider silk. Using state of the art microscopy, researchers were able to watch how the spider's silk glands assemble the proteins into silk strands, a process that could help human spinners figure out more efficient ways of producing spider silk for commercial use.

While several companies in recent years have announced plans to bring spider silk products to market and introduced prototypes, including shoes and jackets made from the stuff, we’ve yet to see any arachno-clothing at the local mall.

====== 172 ========

THESE ANTS IMMOBILIZE PREY WITH ACID THEN DRAG THEM BACK TO NEST FOR DISMEMBERMENT

Floridian Formica archboldi ants have eclectic interior decorating tastes, to say the least: Whereas most ant species are content to cozy up in sand- or soil-filled mounds, F. archboldi prefer to litter their underground nests with the dismembered limbs and decapitated heads of hapless prey.

This behavioral tic has baffled scientists since the species’ discovery in 1958, but as Hannah Osborne reports for Newsweek, a new study published in Insectes Sociaux reveals exactly how the deceptively deadly F. archboldi—which is typically not known for preying on other ants—targets a specific species of trap-jaw ant, or Odontomachus.

Researchers led by Adrian Smith of North Carolina State University and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences have found that the key to these skull-collecting ants’ success is formic acid. F. archboldi spray their trap-jaw prey with the immobilizing chemical, then drag their kills back to the nest for dismemberment.

But trap-jaw ants are far from easy prey, Gemma Tarlach writes for Discover. Thanks to a set of spring-loaded mandibles capable of striking enemies more than 41 times per second, the trap-jaw ant is actually the more likely predator of the two species. In fact, Cosmos’ Nick Carne notes, scientists have previously posited that F. archboldi is either a highly specialized predator or a moocher of sorts, simply moving into abandoned trap-jaw nesting sites.

To better understand the relationship between F. archboldi and the trap-jaw ant, Smith and his team created a miniature test arena and pitted either an F. archboldi or Formica pallidefulva ant—a related species that has no known connection with Odontomachus—against a trap-jaw. Over the course of 10 trials, F. pallidefulva partially immobilized the trap-jaw just one time. Comparatively, F. archboldi bested the trap-jaw 10 out of 10 times. Seven out of 10 contests resulted in the trap-jaw’s complete immobilization.

The process of spraying victims with formic acid is known as chemical mimicry, according to Inverse’s Sarah Sloat. Trap-jaws are capable of producing the same formic acid as F. archboldi, but the latter happen to be more effective sprayers. Typically, chemical mimicry occurs amongst parasitic species that invade and overtake their prey. But, Smith tells Sloat, there is no evidence that F. archboldi is parasitic. Instead, the researchers suggest the ants’ deployment of formic acid is a defense mechanism designed to provide camouflage and ward off stronger predators.

In addition to observing interactions between Formica and trap-jaw ants, the team recorded high-speed footage of attacks and time-lapse footage of attack aftermaths.

“You could see the Formica ants pull in a trap-jaw ant from where they get their food and bring it into the nest,” Smith says in an interview with The Verge’s Rachel Becker. “And they’d start licking it, biting it, moving it around on the ground like they would with food. And then all of a sudden, 18 hours later, you’d see the head start to pop off of the trap-jaw ant. They would pull it apart, and start to dismember it.”

The new report offers insights on how these skull-gathering creatures trap their prey, but the exact reasoning behind the process remains unclear. As Smith tells Newsweek, he thinks the F. archboldi feed on the trap-jaws and leave behind their hollow head casings in a manner similar to humans casting off chicken bones after eating a pile of wings. Still, this explanation doesn’t fully account for the ant’s use of chemical mimicry, nor the long evolutionary history hinted at by the unusual predator-prey relationship.

“Formica archboldi is the most chemically diverse ant species we know of,” Smith says in a statement. “Before this work, it was just a species with a weird head-collecting habit. Now we have what might be a model species for understanding the evolution of chemical diversification and mimicry.”

====== 173 ========

FACIAL RECOGNITION SOFTWARE IS HELPING IDENTIFY UNKNOWN FIGURES IN CIVIL WAR PHOTOGRAPHS

A new facial recognition application pioneered by computer scientist and historian Kurt Luther peers into the past—specifically the American Civil War—to identify anonymous portrait sitters captured in thousands of photographs taken over the course of the bloody four-year conflict.

As Erica X. Eisen reports for Slate, Civil War Photo Sleuth (CWPS) is a three-pronged collaboration launched in August by Luther and his Virginia Tech students; editor Ron Coddington of Military Images; and Paul Quigley, director of the Virginia Center for Civil War Studies. The project, as Luther detailed in a 2017 article for Military Images, features a digital photo archive, research tools and a thriving online community.

Users can contribute their own images from personal collections or upload snapshots spotted in books, museums, cultural institutions, shops and miscellaneous sites across the world. These photographs then join thousands held in national and state archives accessible to the public, enabling CWPS to work toward its goal of becoming the world’s largest, most complete digital archive of identified and unidentified Civil War-era portraits.

According to Slate’s Eisen, CWPS’ software identifies up to 27 “facial landmarks” in every uploaded photograph. If participating sleuths want to learn more about a certain mystery figure, they can narrow down their search by filtering images for details such as unit rank and insignia (colonels fighting for the Union side, for example, wore distinctive shoulder straps with an eagle), photographer details, and inscriptions. Once the system gathers all known information, it cross-references the image with all of the photos in CWPS’ database (which includes 15,000 reference images already identified) to present potential facial matches and, if known, names.

Writing for Military Images, Luther says that the array of facial landmarks used to compare photographs enables CWPS to find matches even if a soldier’s facial hair changes or an existing snapshot captures him from a different angle. This feat is made all the more impressive by the limitations of Civil War images. By the start of the war, photographers were beginning to develop prints from negatives, a delicate process that nevertheless opened up the possibilities of the nascent medium. As Eisen of Slate notes, in addition to the quality and coloring of these images, there were an array of limitations that make it a challenge to identify historical photographs today. Take, for instance, the prevalence of thick beards and mustaches, which could obscure vital facial features.

CWPS has already identified more than 75 photographs and has hundreds more catalogued for eventual identification. The process of identifying unknown figures in Civil War-era photographs requires amateur detectives to draw on an arsenal of tools and skills: As Luther writes in a separate Military Images piece, researchers often augment print resources with a growing body of online data, including genealogical charts, military records and photographic archives, as well as tips offered by burgeoning communities of sleuthing enthusiasts.

Luther has set the highly ambitious goal of identifying every photo in the project’s database. While there are numerous difficulties associated with meeting such a goal, Luther embraces the challenge.

In 2013, he successfully tracked down a portrait of Oliver Croxton, his own great-great-great grand uncle. Describing the search in a 2015 column for Military Images, he summed up the mission driving CWPS, saying, “Every discovery has an impact.”

Correction, 11/21/18: This story has been edited to reflect the correct number of photographs that Civil War Photo Sleuth has identified.

====== 174 ========

VANILLA’S FIRST-KNOWN USE CAME 2,500 YEARS EARLIER AND HALF A WORLD FROM WHERE WE THOUGHT

Researchers have long believed that the first people to cultivate vanilla orchids were Mexico’s indigenous Totonac people in east-central Mexico about 1,000 years ago, or perhaps even a little longer. They were conquered by the Aztecs, who learned to enjoy a dash of vanilla in their hot chocolate. The Spanish, it’s believed, went on to import vanilla to Europe after conquering the Aztecs.

That, however, is not the story four small ceramic jugs at Megiddo, an archaeological site in Israel, tell. The jugs were found in an untouched Bronze Age tomb called “Tomb 50,” which dates back 3,600 years. As Bruce Bower at ScienceNews reports, the residue in the jugs contained vanillin and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, the major flavor components in vanilla, along with residue of olive oil. The research was presented by archaeologist Vanessa Linares of Tel Aviv University at the annual meeting of the American Schools of Oriental Research last week.

While those compounds exist in other plants, Linares argues that only vanilla bean pods could have produced the amount found in the Bronze-Age Megiddo concoctions. “This is based on the profuse quantity of vanillin found in the juglets that could have only derived from the abundant amount of vanillin yield from the vanilla orchid pods,” she writes

So how did a product that hails from Mexico’s east coast make it to Israel 3,600 years ago? Well, it didn’t. Vanilla’s history is just as complex as its flavor profile. While cultivation of Mexican vanilla is the only one we know was used in ancient times, there are about 110 species of vanilla orchids in tropical areas around the world. It’s highly possible people had figured out how get a flavor burst from other vanilla species centuries before. Linares suggests that three vanilla species, one from East Africa, one from India or one from southeast Asia could have been in use and made it to the Middle East via trade routes in ancient times.

Archaeologist Eric Cline of George Washington University, not involved in the study, tells Bowers of ScienceNews that since there were no known trade routes between East Africa and the Middle East, he suggests the likeliest source was the V. abundiflora J.J. Sm species from southwest Asia “It’s really not surprising that vanillin reached Bronze Age Megiddo given all the trade that occurred between the [Middle East] and South Asia.”

The real question here, though, is what was the vanilla used for? “Bronze Age people at Megiddo may have used vanillin-infused oils as additives for foods and medicines, for ritual purposes or possibly even in the embalming of the dead,” Linares said in her presentation.

However it was used, the stuff was reserved for the wealthy, according to Amanda Borschel-Dan at The Times of Israel. Even today, vanilla is the second-most expensive spice behind saffron since it is difficult to cultivate and takes nine to 10 months for pods to form. In the Bronze Age, it was probably even more expensive.

That corresponds to the wealth suggestive of the occupants of the tomb it was found in. The burials included a man and woman and an 8- to-12-year-old boy, all of whom were decorated with gold and silver jewelry, an indication of their high-status position in Canaanite society. Six other bodies in the tomb found near the city gate were of lower-status individuals.

Researchers began an exhaustive investigation of the tomb last year, and that is one reason they analyzed the contents of the jugs. “The incredible state of preservation of Tomb 50 offers an important opportunity for comprehensive scientific study of the ancient population and their funerary practices,” Melissa Cradic, the Megiddo excavations expert on Canaanite funeral practices, tells The Times of Israel. “We are studying diet and health, mobility and migration, ancient DNA, organic residues, environment, and issues of identity using the osteological and material remains.”

That’s all well and good, but our minds would truly be blown if the researchers could unearth some evidence of a Bronze-Age vanilla ice cream cone.

====== 175 ========

NEW CATALOGUE DESCRIBES EVERYTHING WE’VE SENT INTO SPACE

The objects, messages and miscellany dispatched from Earth to outer space in hopes of reaching extraterrestrial life paint an eclectic portrait of humanity. On the more conventional side, there’s the 1974 Arecibo message, which famously details scientific concepts ranging from chemical elements to DNA and the numbers one through ten, and the 2008 Message from Earth, which is a collection of 501 text messages, photographs and drawings capturing participants’ lives and ambitions. Comparatively, transmissions such as a 2008 Doritos’ video advertisement, a Star Trek-inspired invitation to an Earth-based Klingon Opera performance and a personal note from Paul McCartney fall on the more unusual end of the spectrum.

Researchers have long had a vague sense of the information released into the universe as a means of introducing humans to our alien counterparts, but a new study published in the International Journal of Astrobiology represents the first comprehensive accounting of every cultural artifact and message beamed into space.

As Paul E. Quast, creator of the catalogue and director of the non-profit Beyond the Earth Foundation, explains to Atlas Obscura’s Sarah Laskow, the assorted data forms both a “fluctuating, artificial field of intelligent design that emanates outwards from our planet” and “the celestial legacy of our civilization beyond Earth’s borders.”

According to the study, the disorganized jumble of information floating around space could lead extraterrestrial intelligence to adopt a slanted perspective of Earth and its inhabitants. It’s possible, for example, that these artifacts and messages present an interpretation of the world lacking culturally and ideologically diverse viewpoints. At the same time, messages offered by different sources could contradict each other, leaving aliens with a conflicted understanding of humanity.

The centralized database may not preclude the emergence of such obstacles, but it does provide scientists with a more complete overview of the image humans hope to present to their extraterrestrial neighbors. As Laskow notes, transmissions encompass everything from “eternal libraries” responsible for storing information off of Earth to art, official cultural outreach initiatives, direct appeals to alien intelligence and symbolic gestures. All entries in the catalogue must have been available in space for a moderate to extended period of time.

Quast himself spearheaded one of the more recent projects, Robin Seemangal writes for The Observer. In 2016, he collaborated with institutions across Europe, Canada, the United States and Asia to create a piece entitled “A Simple Response to an Elemental Message.” The celestial message in a bottle asked participants to address the question of how humans’ current environmental interactions shape Earth’s future and shipped their replies to the North Star, Polaris. Estimated time of arrival, Seemangal notes, is 434 years from departure.

“A Simple Response” shares many similarities with one of the most well-known items on the list, a collection of images and sounds embedded in a so-called “Golden Record” carried by twin spacecraft Voyager 1 and 2. The 115 analog images included photographs of planets, sketches of human bodies at various stages of development and snapshots of daily life across the planet, while the assortment of sounds featured whale songs, chimpanzee screeches, spoken greetings recorded in 55 languages, and a 90-minute musical sample.

As project creative director Ann Druyan told NPR’s Christopher Joyce in a 2017 interview, she and her colleagues disagreed regarding the inclusion of items referencing the Holocaust, the Cambodian genocide and similar examples of humanity’s darker side. Carl Sagan, an astronomer who led the team, argued against it, citing concerns that it would be misconstrued as a threat. Druyan adds, “He wasn't really certain that it would be understood for what it was—an expression of failure and regret on our part.”

Sagan’s argument speaks to the potential problems associated with attempts to reach extraterrestrial life; Laskow writes that it’s possible making contact could generate chaos amongst humans or even prompt aliens to wreak havoc on our world. Still, the collective human experience represented by Quast’s database is significant not only to potential celestial friends or foes, but to mankind itself.

“It’s reflective of how we judge ourselves and our perceived position throughout the universe,” Quast tells Laskow. “It’s quite inward reflecting.”

Entries such as the Arecibo message and the Golden Record certainly offer a more contemplative reflection of humanity, but as the catalogue shows, there’s room for fun, too. Just look to the 20,000 Twitter postings and celebrity videos dispatched by National Geographic in 2012, a six-minute broadcast of a Stephen Hawking speech, and the oddly specific “Poetica Vaginal,” a series of 1986 recordings the catalogue describes as “a series of weak test transmissions of vaginal contraction sounds (translated into text, music and phonetic speech) from ballet dancers.”

====== 176 ========

YOUR CAT’S TONGUE IS A ROUGH, PINK ENGINEERING MARVEL

One day, research engineer Alexis Noel’s cat, Murphy, was blithely licking away—as cats do—when he got his tongue stuck on a microfiber blanket. The cat licked himself free, but Noel was fascinated by the process, and wondered why the feline’s tongue was so good at untangling knots and smoothing out fur. But when she looked at the literature, she realized engineers had more or less ignored the biomechanics of the miraculous pink tongue brush.

That’s why, in a new study in the journal PNAS, Noel and her colleagues sought to untangle the mysteries of cat tongues. A previous study reported that domestic cat tongues are covered in cone-shaped bumps that were used as brush bristles, whereas the Noel’s team found that the protrusions are actually claw-shaped hooks with hollow U-shaped tips.

The bristles lie flat and rear facing when at rest, but when it’s time to get their groom on, the cat pops the spines straight up. The scoops on the bristles’ tips pick up saliva using water tension and distribute the saliva as the cat licks itself. In fact, when the team dripped food dye on the spines, or papillae, they were able to wick up some of the liquid color.

The papillae aren’t just found on domestic cat tongues either. The team was also able to examine the tongues of a bobcat, cougar, snow leopard, tiger and lion. They created 3D scans of the lickers, finding that they all have papillae of similar size and shape, though the big cat tongues have many more spikes on them. Though the papillae are pretty short, the researchers found that even for the big cats they were long enough to comb out fur once. The only exception was the Persian cat, whose tongue papillae just aren’t long enough to deal with their flowing luxurious coats.

It turns out technique matters, too. The team also recorded cats grooming themselves using high-speed video and found that the little tongue spikes rotate when they encounter knots, which allows the cat to work out the tangles and snarls.

Over the course of an entire day of licking, a cat spreads about one fifth of a cup of water across their fur, reports Carrie Arnold at National Geographic. So, why all the grooming? Besides making the kitties look fabulous, thermal imaging showed that keeping their fur well-groomed also created a 30 degree temperature difference between the skin and outer fur as all that saliva evaporated, keeping the cats—which only sweat through their foot pads—cool.

All that awesome engineering inside the cat’s mouth inspired the team to create their own version. Using a 3D printer they created a small tongue-inspired grooming brush (TIGR) that mimics the action of the cat papillae. Frankie Schembri at Science reports that the team believes the brush could be a hit with pet lovers since it mimics the way cats groom. It is could also be used to get medicine directly to the cat’s skin.

Even better, the brush should be able to scrape cat fur off the couch better than your vacuum cleaner.

====== 177 ========

FROZEN AMUR RIVER

16th Annual Smithsonian.com Photo Contest

Frozen Amur River

This extremely remote region is one of the coldest in the world. For this reason, a number of Chinese electric-car manufacturers have chosen it as their winter testing site for their new prototype electric cars, like this prototype EV of Chinese Slovenian joint venture APG Elaphe. Here in the middle of nowhere on a frozen Amur river (border between China and Russia), the Chinese engineers are taking the future for a test spin.

TAGS: China

====== 178 ========

SHACKLETON PROBABLY NEVER TOOK OUT AN AD SEEKING MEN FOR A HAZARDOUS JOURNEY

In the London newspaper The Times, the story goes, Sir Ernest Shackleton, the famed explorer of Antarctica, posted the following ad:

The pitch certainly captures a certain glorious spirit—“Ah, when ships were made of wood and men were made of steel…” said one Twitter user in response to the advert being shared by the Shackleton Foundation. In response to his posted ad, Shackleton was supposedly flooded with 5000 responses, men clamoring to take their chances on the icy southern continent. The story has been told and retold, and the quote has been riffed on to no end.

But here’s the problem. The ad, and the well-loved quote it bore, probably never existed.

For at least the past 12 years there’s been $100 on the line for anyone who can find a copy of the original advertisement. A modest sum, sure, but more than enough to stoke the interest of historians worldwide. Mark Horrell summarizes the long trail of evidence dug up by the Arctic Circle group of historians working on tracking down the clip:

So far amateur historians have searched The Times archive from 1785 to 1985 (a little over-zealous given Shackleton died in 1922), the entire archive of the South Polar Times, a magazine called The Blizzard, several issues of the Geographical Journal, and the archives of a number of other national and local London newspapers, without success. The earliest known source is a book published in 1944 called Quit You Like Men by Carl Hopkins Elmore, which in turn led to it appearing at No.1 in the 1949 book The 100 Greatest Advertisements by Julian Watkins, which in turn is quoted in Roland Huntford’s 1985 biography of Shackleton and numerous other books about polar exploration.

Shackleton did write a letter to the Times, but it read a little differently:

Sir,–It has been an open secret for some time past that I have been desirous of leading another expedition to the South Polar regions. I am glad now to be able to state that, through the generosity of a friend, I can announce that an expedition will start next year with the object of crossing the South Polar continent from sea to sea. I have taken the liberty of calling the expedition “The Imperial Trans Antarctic Expedition,” because I feel that not only the people of these islands, but our kinsmen in all the lands under the Union Jack will be willing to assist towards the carrying out of the full programme of exploration to which my comrades and myself are pledged. Yours faithfully,

ERNEST H. SHACKLETON

Discerning History:

Not only can no references be found to an original source, searching the Times itself leads to nothing. The months covering Shackleton’s preparations for his expeditions have been read, and the rest of the paper programmatically searched, but both methods have come up empty. It would not have even made sense for Shackleton to place an ad in the paper. There was plenty of free press coverage of his expedition, and he would already have had plenty of men to choose from. Some of the descendents of his men remember being told their ancestors responded to an ad Shackleton placed in the paper, but this was likely a recollection based on reading the ad rather than something they were actually told. Frank Worsley, one of the crew members, wrote his memoirs and did not record seeing an ad, instead he just happened upon the expedition’s offices and decided to apply. Inspiring though it may be, it seems that Shackleton’s famous ad is mostly likely a myth.

People love the Shackleton advertisement and the tale it tells about the spirit of these brave adventurers. But though their harrowing expedition, and the achievements of Shackleton and his men were real, the ad that brought them all together, sadly, was probably not.

More from Smithsonian.com:

Tasting Shackleton’s Whisky

Reliving Shackleton’s Epic Endurance Expedition

====== 179 ========

WHY SNAIL SEX IS LIKE A BOX OF CHOCOLATES

When you kneel down to give your sweetie an engagement ring, you’re taking part in a time-honored western ritual: sealing a partnership with gifts. In other parts of the planet, nuptial gifts can mean the bride’s family gives a dowry; in some cultures, mutual dowries are exchanged. But humans aren't the only ones who have found that romance often works better when it comes with presents.

Related Content Meet Eight Species That Are Bending the Rules of Reproduction

Scientists have found that some of the creepiest, crawliest creatures on the planet also take part in amorous gift-giving. Male dance flies, katydids and certain spiders offer a free meal to the objects of their affection; snails include a shot of fortifying nutrients with their sperm. Apart from convincing prospective mates to share a romantic moment, such offerings can strengthen the female after mating and sometimes even lessen her likelihood to mate with others.

When it comes to non-human animals, though, it might help to think of more edible gifts than metal rings. “It’s like giving her a box of chocolates,” says Joris Koene, an assistant professor in biology at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam who studies snail reproduction. Koene says the term in wildlife usually applies to species with separate male and female sexes, which contribute a gift of energy or specific substances that the female can then invest in her eggs.

Now researchers are starting to untangle why species that fall outside of heteronormative partnerships have developed different gift-giving traditions—or none at all.

Koene recently co-authored a study on snails that sought to understand the kind of nutrient exchange that occurs when species mate outside of the male-female dichotomy. To figure out what kind of resource exchange was going on, Koene and his coauthors monitored the amount of nutrients like carbon and nitrogen transferred between two different species of hermaphroditic snails.

The species he focused on were the fresh water Lymnaea stagnalis, or the great pond snail, and the land snail known as Cornu aspersum. The pond snail is a hermaphrodite that can choose the role of giver or taker in a relationship. By contrast, for the land snail to successfully mate, both mollusks have to insert their reproductive organs into each other at the same time. “The penises have to be inserted into each other in order to mate. Otherwise nothing happens,” Koene explains.

This behavior made Koene and his colleagues wonder whether the nuptial gift concept even applied in this case. After all, if both sides exchange gifts along with their sperm, isn’t it a zero-sum game? To find out, researchers watched the land snails have sex, then callously pulled them apart past the point of no return, but just before each of them had ejaculated. They then collected the resulting substance that the snails excreted.

Analyzing the contents, they found that the snails did indeed exchange some nutrients. But the mutual ejaculation erased any benefit that either individual might have received from the exchange. In fact, when accounting for the energy expended in the exchange, both individuals end up losing out in a strict economy of energy because of the effort spent getting busy.

In the case of the land snails, researchers didn’t have to hurt or kill the animals in order to better understand their behavior. “We just traumatize them a little bit,” Koene says, adding that it was for all “for the sake of science.” But the great pond snails weren’t quite so lucky, since they don’t prepare their ejaculate before transfer; Koene says they had to kill the animals in order to collect the substance.

While they found that the latter snails likely do contribute some nutrients to their partners, it wasn't nearly enough to actually help in the production of eggs. “You would need about 20 or 30 ejaculates to have a proper contribution to one egg clutch,” Koene says. “For both of the [snail species] we tested, if you add things up it doesn’t really benefit them that much.”

In that way, the ejaculated nutrients really are like a box of chocolates: they may provide a nice momentary boost, but they don’t actually help with child-rearing.

Karim Vahed, a professor of entomology at the University of Derby in England who has published several papers on nuptial gifts, says that the new research shows how the concept of nuptial gift exchange is much more complicated when we account for the fact that some species don’t necessarily operate under a binary male-female relationship.

“It’s the first paper that I’m aware of that actually drills down into that question more deeply by actually looking at what quantity of substances is exchanged,” he says.

Vahed adds that the snail situation stands in contrast to the huge nuptial gifts that some insects donate to their partners. Male katydids, for example, produce a spermatophore during mating that can be up to 30 percent of their body mass, which contains both ejaculate and a mass of edible jelly. The female eats the jelly while the sperm enters her body, and then consumes any leftover sperm for added sustenance.

By giving a large gift to the female, who isn't monogamous, the male ensures that she will spend some time consuming it. His ejaculate confers another reproductive benefit as well: it contains substances referred to by researchers as "ejaculate allohormones," which actually switch off female sexual receptivity.

“The males could actually be subtly manipulating female behavior by prolonging ejaculate transfers,” Vahed says.

Other species have a hunger for sex—and the nuptial gifts that come with it—that can’t be as easily squelched.

Dance flies in the U.S. Northeast and Canada are peculiar in the animal kingdom in that the females of the species are more ornamental than the males. During dawn and dusk, the females will take wing, sucking in huge quantities of air to inflate their bright orange abdomens. The inflated abdomens swell to disks about the third of a size of a penny, ensuring that the mosquito-sized males will see them silhouetted against the horizon.

“They’re like little insect peacock tails,” says Darryl Gwynne, a biology professor at the University of Toronto Mississauga. “When they really get going, there will be thousands of them.” And like male peacocks, these insects sacrifice physical fitness for sex appeal: Their ornamented, scaled legs and puffy bodies makes them clumsy, so they are more likely to blunder into spider webs than the males of the species.

Yet these females' seemingly counterproductive behavior is motivated by a powerful, instinctive urge: the munchies. The flies that males catch and present to potential mates, it turns out, comprise the female’s only source of sustenance. So in this case, attractive accoutrements aren’t only a matter of passing on one’s genes. It’s also about immediate survival. “With the [female] dance flies, it’s hunger that drives them,” he says.

Hungry female dance flies will mate with as many males as they can. This satisfies their appetite, as well as ensures a healthy genetic mix among their offspring. But Luc Bussiere, an evolutionary biology professor at the University of Stirling in Scotland who has worked with Gwynne on dance flies, says it’s in the best interests of the males to mate with a female who isn’t as flashy. That way, he’s more likely to be her one and only.

Or so one might think. Having a large abdomen, says Bussiere, might indicate to a male that a female is in peak mating form. “You can understand why males would like to mate with really fat females,” he says. “First of all she’s probably got more eggs. And more importantly, those eggs are probably nearly ready to be laid.” But seemingly large and fertile females may actually be a trick of the eye, deceiving males with their inflated, shiny bodies.

Male gift-givers can be tricksters, too. Nursery web spiders catch insects for their female consorts in an effort to woo them and avoid getting eaten themselves. But males who aren’t as good as hunting down bugs will often give the female a fake meal instead. “In some cases the males actually cheat by transferring something inedible,” Bussiere says. The fact that they wrap it in webbing allows them to hide inedible items in a silk package.

Bussiere says that Koene's work helps reveal the biases that human researchers exhibit when studying animals that don’t have separate sexes or operate in monogamous male-female partnerships. Blow-up flies, fake rings, and nutrient packages that cancel each other out all serve to illustrate the number of twists and turns that exist in nuptial gift giving across species.

“The male reproductive strategy of giving nuptial gifts cannot be generalized to any sexually reproducing animal,” says Monica Lodi, the lead author of the recent study with Koene. “If we don’t step outside that general habit, we draw incorrect conclusions about the prevalence of these behaviors or these ways of life.” Romance, it seems, comes in many forms.

====== 180 ========

TEXAS WILL FINALLY TEACH THAT SLAVERY WAS MAIN CAUSE OF THE CIVIL WAR

Last week, the Texas Board of Education voted to make a change to the state’s social studies standards that no serious historian would quibble with, but is, nevertheless, controversial in the Lone Star State: to teach that slavery was the central issue of the American Civil War, and not, as previous standards had dictated, a cause eclipsed by states’ rights and sectionalism. Camille Phillips at NPR reports the change is one of several to the curriculum that will be implemented in the 2019-2020 school year.

Standards previously adopted in 2010 were designed to play up the role of states’ rights and sectionalism and downplay slavery as the reason Texas entered the Civil War on the side of the Confederacy. Slavery, one board member said at the time, according to The Washington Post, was a “side issue.”

While the board’s Democrats, who first proposed the change in language in September, wanted to update standards to elucidate the central role that slavery played in the Civil War, the Republican-dominated board succeeded in keeping states’ rights issues and sectionalism on as “contributing factors” for the Civil War. The resulting compromise, according to the board, will teach "the central role of the expansion of slavery in causing sectionalism, disagreements over states' rights, and the Civil War."

Ron Francis, a high school history teacher in Highland Park, calls the compromise wanting. “The lies they’re telling are a little smaller than the lies they used to tell,” as he puts it to Kathyrn Lundstrom at The Texas Tribune.

During the meeting, Democratic board member Marisa Perez-Diaz explained the root of the frustration, saying, "What the use of 'states' rights' is doing is essentially blanketing, or skirting, the real foundational issue, which is slavery."

Republican board member David Bradley was one of the leading voices behind keeping states’ rights in the curriculum. "Each state had differences and made individual decisions as to whether or not to join into the conflict, correct? I mean, that's the definition of states' rights," he said in the meeting.

Since 1917, when state law authorized the board, which is often staffed by non-educators, to purchase all public school textbooks, it has maintained control of Texas' public school curriculum. Lundstrom of the Tribune reports the board’s standards have turned into a battleground for conservatives and liberals over what students should be taught.

Teachers will sometimes skirt these standards—for instance, one tells Lundstrom that she teaches the Reconstruction era, the period after the Civil War that set the stage for racial politics in the United States for the next century and a half, even though it is not mandated. However, the voluntary nature of such practice guarantees that not every student will be taught it. Meanwhile, the numerous topics that are included on standardized tests are not taught with the depth or nuance that they demand because teachers are forced to go through them in rapid fashion so as to cover all of the material needed to prepare their students to perform well on the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness, or STAAR test.

In response to such criticism, the board is working to streamline the state's curriculum standards to give teachers a little more space to teach. However, some of what they’re editing out has also been criticized. For instance, as Lauren McGaughy at The Dallas Morning News reports, the new curriculum still lists only one cause for the extremely fraught Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and it cuts out many historical figures, including Francis Scott Key, who wrote the Star-Spangled Banner, African-American poet Phillis Wheatley, as well as several Confederate leaders. Under pressure, the board voted to keep Helen Keller and Hillary Clinton on a list of notable Americans that could be included in lessons, though Oprah Winfrey, Barry Goldwater and astronaut Ellen Ochoa got the nix. The board also voted to keep in a specific description of the defenders of the Alamo as "heroic."

While some of the issues here are distinctly inter-Texan battles, over at The Houston Chronicle Joanna Perrillo explains that the curriculum decided by the school board also has national implications. After all, Texas represents one-tenth of grade school and high school students in the U.S., and the textbooks written to Texas standards go to other states as well.

====== 181 ========

EARTH’S QUIETEST PLACE WILL DRIVE YOU CRAZY IN 45 MINUTES

Everybody seems to be looking for a little peace and quiet these days. But even such a reasonable idea can go too far. The quietest place on earth, an anechoic chamber at Orfield Laboratories in Minnesota, is so quiet that the longest anybody has been able to bear it is 45 minutes.

Inside the room it's silent. So silent that the background noise measured is actually negative decibels, -9.4 dBA. Steven Orfield, the lab's founder, told Hearing Aid Know: “We challenge people to sit in the chamber in the dark – one person stayed in there for 45 minutes. When it’s quiet, ears will adapt. The quieter the room, the more things you hear. You’ll hear your heart beating, sometimes you can hear your lungs, hear your stomach gurgling loudly. In the anechoic chamber, you become the sound."

But the room isn't just for torturing people. Companies test their products in it to find out just how loud they are. And NASA has sent astronauts to help them adapt to the silence of space. For you and me, however, the room is a deeply disorienting place. Not only do people hear their heartbeat, they have trouble orienting themselves and even standing. "How you orient yourself is through sounds you hear when you walk. In the anechnoic chamber, you don't have any cues," Orfield told the Daily Mail. "You take away the perceptual cues that allow you to balance and manoeuvre. If you're in there for half an hour, you have to be in a chair."

So the next time you wish for some quiet time, remember that it could also drive you crazy.

More from Smithsonian.com:

Why the Sun Was So Quiet for So Long

Why Golfers Might Need Earplugs

====== 182 ========

WHAT DID ELIZABETH I ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE? THIS ARTIST HAS A SUGGESTION

During her 45-year reign, England’s Elizabeth I carefully cultivated her public image. She did such a good job of managing it that nearly 500 years after her rise to power, her imperial majesty continues to be depicted with a lithe figure, whose shape is emphasized by delicate lace collars, a smooth ivory complexion, and vibrant red hair dotted with precious jewels.

As Jonathan Jones reports for the Guardian, a new mixed-media installation by British artist Mat Collishaw complicates the visual we have of the last Tudor monarch, showing her as a master of artifice who crafted and controlled the mask she presented to the world, particularly as she grew older and fell victim to increasingly poor health.

“The proliferation of portraits seemed to set up a smoke screen more than it revealed her true character, which remained concealed behind her inscrutable appearance,” Collishaw explains in an interview published on the Royal Museums Greenwich blog. “Years of insecurity, due to the potentially volatile political climate, led her to create a public mask which became fused with her private self, the two becoming inseparable.”

Collishaw’s creation, fittingly entitled “The Mask of Youth,” renders this theory tangible by juxtaposing an animatronic, life-like and realistically unflattering depiction of Elizabeth with the triumphant "Armada Portrait," which was produced around 1588 to commemorate Philip II of Spain’s failed invasion of the British Isles.

On one wall of an exhibition hall in the Queen’s House, Greenwich, Elizabeth appears serene, omnipotent and incredibly youthful for a woman of roughly 55. The pearls in her hair speak to the “chastity” of England’s “Virgin Queen,” while the lace ruff surrounding her face radiates “warmth, beauty and goodness,” per the RMG blog.

On the wall directly across from this image, a different version of Elizabeth appears. As Lucy Davies notes for the Telegraph, this queen bears all the hallmarks of her age: sunken eyes, wrinkles, smallpox-scarred skin and even wispy chin hairs. She’s missing her famed red hair—not to mention a corporeal body. Instead, she is little more than a rubber mask installed in a glass box. Behind her sits a jumble of whirring machinery that dictates her movements, from unnervingly blinking eyes to quavering mouth; the ultimate effect, Jamie Rigg writes for Engadget, is that of a silent queen surveying her court, physically unmasked to reveal the face behind the facade but concealing her inner thoughts just as she did in both portraits and life.

It’s not surprising that Elizabeth was adept in the art of crafting and maintaining an image: As the second daughter of a king yearning for sons and the product of an annulled union that ended with her mother’s execution on trumped up charges of adultery, she spent her life hiding behind a mask of her own creation. There were few other options if she hoped to survive the rise and fall of the kings and queens who ruled before she took power—an arduous task that she navigated by concealing her true intentions and beguiling those around her until Mary I died childless in 1558, leaving her sister Elizabeth heir to the throne.

Determined to maintain her independence, the 25-year-old queen decided to remain unmarried. For History Extra, Anna Whitelock writes that the queen’s “body was held to be one and the same as England.” When Elizabeth was young, vivacious and seemingly bound to produce a bevy of male heirs, this equation of private and public worked in her favor. When she was beyond childbearing years, with her balding grey hair, wrinkles and rotting teeth partially masked by heavy cosmetics and wigs, the emphasis on appearance proved more problematic.

Portraits became a key method of maintaining the myth of the queen’s youthful beauty, the Telegraph’s Davies notes. Toward the end of her reign, Elizabeth issued a “face template” that portrait artists were commanded to adhere to, and as Brenda Ralph Lewis of British Heritage recounts, her secretary of state, Sir Robert Cecil, once wrote, “Many painters have done portraits of the Queen but none has sufficiently shown her looks or charms. Therefore Her Majesty commands all manner of persons to stop doing portraits of her until a clever painter has finished one which all other painters can copy. Her Majesty, in the meantime, forbids the showing of any portraits which are ugly until they are improved.”

In an interview with the BBC’s Dan John, National Maritime Museum curator Christine Riding says that Collishaw’s “Mask of Youth,” which was produced based on biometric information drawn from painted portraits, a 3D scan of the queen’s death mask and contemporary accounts of her appearance, doesn’t claim to provide a definitive depiction of Elizabeth.

“This is as artificial as the 'Armada Portrait,'” Riding explains. “It may be more lifelike, but you can see the mechanics that are whirring up every time that she moves. This is no attempt to say this is Elizabeth I. It is another kind of artifice.”

“The Mask of Youth” is on view at the Queen’s House, Greenwich, through February 3, 2019.

====== 183 ========

THE WORST SHARK ATTACK IN HISTORY

Related Content The Real Science Behind the Megalodon

The USS Indianapolis had delivered the crucial components of the first operational atomic bomb to a naval base on the Pacific island of Tinian. On August 6, 1945, the weapon would level Hiroshima. But now, on July 28, the Indianapolis sailed from Guam, without an escort, to meet the battleship USS Idaho in the Leyte Gulf in the Philippines and prepare for an invasion of Japan.

The next day was quiet, with the Indianapolis making about 17 knots through swells of five or six feet in the seemingly endless Pacific. As the sun set over the ship, the sailors played cards and read books; some spoke with the ship’s priest, Father Thomas Conway.

But shortly after midnight, a Japanese torpedo hit the Indianapolis in the starboard bow, blowing almost 65 feet of the ship’s bow out of the water and igniting a tank containing 3,500 gallons of aviation fuel into a pillar of fire shooting several hundred feet into the sky. Then another torpedo from the same submarine hit closer to midship, hitting fuel tanks and powder magazines and setting off a chain reaction of explosions that effectively ripped the Indianapolis in two. Still traveling at 17 knots, the Indianapolis began taking on massive amounts of water; the ship sank in just 12 minutes. Of the 1,196 men aboard, 900 made it into the water alive. Their ordeal—what is considered the worst shark attack in history—was just beginning.

As the sun rose on July 30, the survivors bobbed in the water. Life rafts were scarce. The living searched for the dead floating in the water and appropriated their lifejackets for survivors who had none. Hoping to keep some semblance of order, survivors began forming groups—some small, some over 300—in the open water. Soon enough they would be staving off exposure, thirst—and sharks.

The animals were drawn by the sound of the explosions, the sinking of the ship and the thrashing and blood in the water. Though many species of shark live in the open water, none is considered as aggressive as the oceanic whitetip. Reports from the Indianapolis survivors indicate that the sharks tended to attack live victims close to the surface, leading historians to believe that most of the shark-related causalities came from oceanic whitetips.

The first night, the sharks focused on the floating dead. But the survivors’ struggles in the water only attracted more and more sharks, which could feel their motions through a biological feature known as a lateral line: receptors along their bodies that pick up changes in pressure and movement from hundreds of yards away. As the sharks turned their attentions toward the living, especially the injured and the bleeding, sailors tried to quarantine themselves away from anyone with an open wound, and when someone died, they would push the body away, hoping to sacrifice the corpse in return for a reprieve from a shark’s jaw. Many survivors were paralyzed with fear, unable even to eat or drink from the meager rations they had salvaged from their ship. One group of survivors made the mistake of opening a can of Spam—but before they could taste it, the scent of the meat drew a swarm of sharks around them. They got rid of their meat rations rather than risk a second swarming.

The sharks fed for days, with no sign of rescue for the men. Navy intelligence had intercepted a message from the Japanese submarine that had torpedoed the Indianapolis describing how it had sunk an American battleship along the Indianapolis’ route, but the message was disregarded as a trick to lure American rescue boats into an ambush. In the meantime, the Indianapolis survivors learned that they had the best odds in a group, and ideally in the center of the group. The men on the margins or, worse, alone, were the most susceptible to the sharks.

As the days passed, many survivors succumbed to heat and thirst, or suffered hallucinations that compelled them to drink the seawater around them—a sentence of death by salt poisoning. Those who so slaked their thirst would slip into madness, foaming at the mouth as their tongues and lips swelled. They often became as great a threat to the survivors as the sharks circling below—many dragged their comrades underwater with them as they died.

After 11:00 a.m. on their fourth day in the water, a Navy plane flying overhead spotted the Indianapolis survivors and radioed for help. Within hours, another seaplane, manned by Lieutenant Adrian Marks, returned to the scene and dropped rafts and survival supplies. When Marks saw men being attacked by sharks, he disobeyed orders and landed in the infested waters, and then began taxiing his plane to help the wounded and stragglers, who were at the greatest risk. A little after midnight, the USS Doyle arrived on the scene and helped to pull the last survivors from the water. Of the Indianapolis’ original 1,196-man crew, only 317 remained. Estimates of the number who died from shark attacks range from a few dozen to almost 150. It’s impossible to be sure. But either way, the ordeal of the Indianapolis survivors remains the worst maritime disaster in U.S. naval history.

Sources: Richard Bedser. Ocean of Fear: Worst Shark Attack Ever . Discovery Channel: United States, 2007; Cathleen Bester. “Oceanic Whitetip Shark,” On the Florida Museum of Natural History. Accessed August 7, 2013; Nick Collins. “Oceanic whitetip shark: ten facts,” On Telegraph UK, December 6, 2010. Accessed August 6, 2013; Tom Harris. “How Sharks Work,” On How Stuff Works, March 30, 2001. Accessed August 6, 2013; Alex Last. “USS Indianapolis sinking: ‘You could see sharks circling’” on BBC News Magazine, July 28, 2013. Accessed August 6, 2013; Raymond B. Leach. The Tragic Fate of the USS Indianapolis. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2000; Marc Nobleman. The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis. North Mankato, MN: Capstone Publishers, 2006; “Oral History -The Sinking of USS Indianapolis,” On Naval Historical Center, September 1, 1999. Accessed August 7, 2013; “The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis, 1945.” On Eyewitness to History, 2006. Accessed August 6, 2013; Doug Stanton. In Harm’s Way: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors. New York, NY: Macmillan, 2003; “The Story.” On the USS Indianapolis CA-35, March 1998. Accessed August 6, 2013; Jennifer Viegas. “Worst Shark Attack,” On Discovery Channel. Accessed August 6, 2013.

====== 184 ========

THE TRUE STORY OF ROBERT THE BRUCE, SCOTLAND’S ‘OUTLAW KING’

Six weeks before he seized the Scottish crown in March 1306, Robert the Bruce murdered his closest political rival.

He’d arranged to meet longtime opponent John “the Red” Comyn at a priory in Dumfries in southern Scotland, ostensibly to discuss “certain business touching them both,” but quickly changed tactics, accused Comyn of treachery and struck him down. As Comyn lay bleeding at the foot of the shrine, Bruce retreated, giving the friars a chance to tend to the fallen man’s wounds. But he then learned his target was still alive and sent several men back to finish the bloody task. As Walter of Guisborough wrote around 1308, when Comyn “had confessed and was truly repentant, by the tyrant's order he was dragged out of the vestry and killed on the steps of the high altar.”

The murder—described by the English the following year as “outrageous sacrilege inhumanly committed against God and the holy Church”—placed Bruce on a collision course with Scotland’s imposing neighbor, England. But the motivations behind the act remain as mired in uncertainty as the legacy of the warrior king himself. Alternately painted as a patriot whose perseverance secured his nation’s independence and a more shadowy figure with dangerous ambitions and a tenuous sense of allegiance, Bruce remains one of Scottish history’s most controversial characters, and one of the few whose name is easily recognized by non-Scots.

Director David McKenzie’s upcoming Netflix biopic, The Outlaw King, represents one of the first major film adaptations of Bruce’s story. (The 1995 epic Braveheart finds a younger Bruce intersecting with Mel Gibson’s William Wallace but concludes long before Bruce becomes the Scots’ leader.) Starring Chris Pine as the titular character, Outlaw King picks up roughly where Braveheart left off, chronicling Wallace’s downfall, Bruce’s subsequent rise and the middle years of the First War of Scottish Independence.

Bruce’s transformation from the much derided “King Hob,” or King Nobody, to protector of Scotland happened slowly and is more nuanced than suggested by Outlaw King, which compresses the historical timeline and tends to skirt unsavory aspects of Bruce’s personality in favor of presenting a conflicted, even reluctant ruler.

Still, McKenzie tells the Hollywood Reporter, “He’s a complicated hero. He gets half of the way he wants to go by murdering someone in a church. He’s one of the one percent. He’s not an easy hero to go, ‘He’s our folk guy.’”

Given the drawn-out nature of the struggle for Scottish independence, the film’s condensed time frame—it focuses on Bruce’s life between 1304 and 1307—makes narrative sense. But whether this hinders Outlaw King’s ability to capture Bruce’s transformation, in the words of historian Fiona Watson—author of the newly released Traitor, Outlaw, King: The Making of Robert Bruce—from someone “incredibly inept” to someone “quite extraordinary” is another issue entirely.

***

Like many conflicts of the medieval era, the First War of Scottish Independence began with a succession crisis. After Alexander III, King of Scots, died suddenly in 1286, the throne passed to his granddaughter, three-year-old Margaret, Maid of Norway. Never officially crowned, she died unexpectedly four years later, triggering a battle for power between claimants John Balliol and Robert the Bruce, the grandfather of the better-known Robert. Trapped in a stalemate, the Scots asked England’s Edward I (played in Outlaw King by Stephen Dillane) to choose their nation’s next ruler. In 1292, he picked Balliol.

England’s intervention came with a heavy price: Edward forced the Scottish nobility to pledge fealty to him, eroding the country’s claim to sovereignty and treating Scotland much like a feudal territory. Incensed, the Scots formed a separate alliance with France in 1295 and continued their subversion of English authority with a 1296 attack on the city of Carlisle. Edward retaliated in brutal fashion. As 15th-century chronicler Walter Bower recounts, the king targeted the Scottish city of Berwick, sparing “no one, whatever the age or sex, and for two days streams of blood flowed from the bodies of the slain … so that mills could be turned round by the flow of their blood.”

During these early stages of the war, Bruce and his father Robert sided with the English. The younger Robert had recently served in the royal household, Michael Penman writes in Robert the Bruce: King of the Scots, and it’s possible he wanted to convince Edward that the Bruce clan had forgotten its ambitions of claiming the throne. Whatever his motivations, the 21-year-old Robert marched with the English against the country he would one day rule.

But in 1297, an increasingly disillusioned Bruce shifted his allegiance to Scottish rebel William Wallace. Forever cemented (erroneously) in popular imagination as a blue paint-covered kilt-wearer, Wallace is often portrayed as a more straightforward figure than his successor in the bid for Scottish independence. Michael Brown, a historian at Scotland’s University of St. Andrews, says that Wallace is remembered as “the disinterested patriotic hero whose only concern was the liberty and protection of his fellow Scots.” Comparatively, “Bruce is a successful politician. He achieves more, but in some ways his hands are dirtier.”

Braveheart famously depicts Bruce (played by Angus MacFayden) betraying Wallace during the Battle of Falkirk in 1298, then having a change of heart and rescuing the downed Scots leader from the wrath of the English. Yet there’s no historical evidence Bruce was at Falkirk, nor that he directly betrayed Wallace (although he did switch sides several times in these early years). As Brown explains, the story is mainly cited to reflect how Wallace’s failure inspired Bruce’s later success: “[There’s] the idea of Wallace standing in for Bruce in a sense, but Bruce failing to perform that [leadership] role at that stage.”

The defeat at Falkirk marked the unofficial end of Wallace’s campaign—he resigned as Guardian of Scotland and went on the run. This is where Outlaw King picks up. With the independence movement largely crushed, Bruce and most of the Scottish lords submitted to Edward’s authority.

***

John Comyn continued battling the English until February 1304, when he negotiated peace terms that restored Scotland’s “laws, usages, customs and liberties” and provided for a representative assembly. Around this time, Bruce returned to Scotland, likely with an eye toward the crown vacated by the still-exiled Balliol. Watson, author of Traitor, Outlaw, King, describes the soon-to-be king’s actions during this period as “incredibly duplicitous.” He’d pledged fealty to Edward I and England, but this didn’t stop him from forming a vague agreement of mutual support with the powerful Bishop of St. Andrews.

This tangled web of alliances culminated in that deadly February 10, 1306, meeting between Bruce and Comyn, the two main contenders for the Scottish throne. It’s uncertain what the pair actually discussed, but the near-contemporary Flores Historiarum posits that Bruce had “first secretly and then openly” begun gathering support for his claim. When asked if he’d agree to crown his rival, Comyn “firmly replied no … so [Bruce] slaughtered him.”

Watson says she is convinced Bruce arrived in Dumfries with the intention of striking down Comyn, whom he worried was on the verge of claiming the Scottish crown.

“[Bruce] was utterly consistent, utterly ruthless and utterly convinced that he should be the king of Scots,” she says, arguing that his ever-changing allegiances reflected, in his point of view, an “entirely consistent” means of achieving this singular goal.

Brown offers a more sympathetic reading that attributes the act of “unpremeditated violence” to personal antagonism between Bruce and Comyn. As he points out, Comyn’s death alienated Bruce from his victim’s powerful family, an unwise step given the coming resumption of hostilities with England. The circumstances of the murder also led Pope Clement V to excommunicate Bruce, complicating his already uncertain path forward.

In the weeks between killing Comyn and ascending to the throne, Bruce rallied support in southwest Scotland. He issued demands to Edward I, promising to “defend himself with the longest stick that he had” if they went unmet, and received absolution for his sins from the Bishop of Glasgow.

Declared a fugitive for both his sacrilege and breach of fealty, Bruce had little to lose by going one step further and seizing the crown. On March 25, 1306, he was invested with the Scottish kingship in a surprisingly elaborate ceremony held at Scone Abbey. Despite lacking the traditional coronation stone, diadem and scepter, all of which had transferred to England in 1296, Robert officially became King of Scots.

***

Some 40 years after the First War of Scottish Independence, Archbishop John Barbour composed an epic retelling of the conflict. Heavily situated in the “Bruce as hero” camp, the poem characterizes the period between Bruce’s coronation and his victory at Bannockburn in 1314 as a journey of redemption.

Comyn’s killing was “obviously homicide,” Brown explains, “but it's also blasphemy and treason. So those crimes are ones that Bruce has to expunge from his soul by his … struggles and his suffering.”

As Outlaw King attests, Bruce’s troubles started soon after he was crowned king. Edward sent Aymer de Valence, Comyn’s brother-in-law, to crush the rebellion. By early June, de Valence had captured two of Bruce’s key supporters, the bishops of St. Andrews and Glasgow, and secured the aid of Scots loyal to Comyn.

During the summer of 1306, Bruce suffered two defeats in quick succession: At the June 19 Battle of Methven, de Valence took the Scottish forces completely by surprise with an early morning sneak attack. Just under two months later, Bruce faced off with members of the MacDougall clan, an ally of the Comyns, at Dalrigh. Outnumbered and unprepared, the Scots king’s army rapidly dispersed. Bruce barely evaded capture, and over the next several months, he experienced a string of personal tragedies. Three of his four brothers fell into English hands and were hung, drawn and quartered. His wife, daughter and sisters were similarly betrayed and remained Edward’s prisoners until 1315.

At a certain point, Michael Penman writes in Robert the Bruce, it becomes difficult to trace the Scottish king’s movements. He spent the winter in hiding, perhaps on an island off the western coast, and, according to a popular but likely apocryphal tale, passed the hours by observing a spider in a cave. Disheartened by his military and personal losses, Bruce allegedly saw echoes of his struggle in the spider’s repeated attempts to swing itself from one corner to another. When the spider finally succeeded, it inspired Bruce to launch a second wave of rebellion.

Despite the spider legend’s suspect origins, Michael Brown says the story exemplifies Bruce’s reputation as a “model of perseverance.” This tenacity also forms an undercurrent of The Outlaw King, which finds its protagonist declaring himself “done with running and … sick of hiding.”

In both the film and historical record, 1307 marks a turning point in Scotland’s drive for independence. Bruce returned with a set of revamped guerrilla tactics that took advantage of the country’s rugged terrain. In doing so, he created a model of Scottish warfare that lasted long beyond his fight.

“It’s essentially run away and hide,” Brown explains. “Take to the hills, harry [the enemy’s] flanks, stop them living off of the land, but don’t risk a battle.”

Bruce’s forces secured a minor victory at the Battle of Glen Trool—really more of a skirmish—in April 1307. The following month, the Scots faced off with de Valence once again, this time at Loudoun Hill. Prior to the battle, Bruce surveyed the area and concocted a plan to restrict the movements of de Valence’s horsemen, who would otherwise overwhelm the Scottish spearmen fighting on foot. As Fiona Watson writes in Robert the Bruce, the newly confident commander ordered three trenches dug at right angles to the road, ensuring that only a limited number of cavalry would be able to reach the Scots ensconced within. The English outnumbered Bruce’s men by 3,000 to 600, according to Barbour’s poem, but were wary to ride directly into the Scottish warriors’ spears. Those who did found themselves dashed upon the ground, and as the battle drew to a close, Barbour notes that “one might hear the sound / Of shivered lances and the cry / Of wounded men in agony.”

Outlaw King concludes soon after the Battle of Loudoun Hill, content to treat this victory as a sign of the war’s changing tides (and as a proxy for the better-known Battle of Bannockburn, a 1314 meeting that saw the Scots defeat similarly superior English forces). The meeting certainly proved, in Watson’s words, that “even if Bruce had been excommunicated by the pope for the murder of John Comyn, God could still favor him.”

In reality, the fight for independence trundled on for another 21 years, concluding only with the Treaty of Edinburgh-Northampton in March 1328. By this point, Edward I was long gone—he died in July 1307, leaving his infamously inept son Edward II in control—and it was his grandson Edward III, newly ascended to the throne in place of his deposed father, who actually agreed to Bruce’s terms.

***

Bruce died on June 7, 1329, just one month shy of his 55th birthday. Although he’d only enjoyed one year of peacetime, the king went to his grave secure in the knowledge that Scotland’s sovereignty was safe—at least for the time being. Before his death, Bruce asked longtime friend James “Black” Douglas (Outlaw King’s Aaron Taylor-Johnson plays the Scottish lord with frenetic fervor) to bring his heart on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Unfortunately, the ever-restless Douglas stopped to support Spain’s Alfonso XI in his campaign against the Moors and was killed in battle. According to legend, he threw the casket holding Bruce’s heart ahead of him before entering the fray, declaring, “Lead on brave heart, I’ll follow thee.” Bruce’s heart was ultimately retrieved and interred at Melrose Abbey, while the rest of his body was laid to rest in the royal mausoleum at Dunfermline Abbey. The king’s epitaph, somewhat ironically, declared Bruce “the unconquered Robert, blessed king … [who] brought to freedom / the Kingdom of the Scots.”

The image of Bruce as model king and consummate defender of Scotland endures to this day, but the man behind the myth is harder to pinpoint: Whereas predecessor William Wallace is, according to Brown, “the disinterested patriotic hero whose only concern was the liberty and protection of his fellow Scots,” Bruce is a figure whose early years were marked by murder at the high altar, shifting loyalties and a string of military failures. It’s also worth noting that the peaceful independence Bruce fought for lasted just a few years, with hostilities starting up again in 1332 and continuing sporadically until the 1707 Act of Union brought England and Scotland together under the single entity of Great Britain. But Brown argues that Bruce’s accomplishments weren’t diminished by the Act of Union. In fact, he says, the legendary king came to be “the guarantor of Scottish liberties” within the united realm.

Watson summarizes Bruce’s legacy best, concluding in Traitor, Outlaw, King that it’s natural to suspect the warrior king’s motives.

“But,” she concludes, “we cannot deny his achievements.”

====== 185 ========

THE THIBODAUX MASSACRE LEFT 60 AFRICAN-AMERICANS DEAD AND SPELLED THE END OF UNIONIZED FARM LABOR IN THE SOUTH FOR DECADES

On November 23, 1887, a mass shooting of African-American farm workers in Louisiana left some 60 dead. Bodies were dumped in unmarked graves while the white press cheered a victory against a fledgling black union. It was one of the bloodiest days in United States labor history, and while statues went up and public places were named for some of those involved, there is no marker of the Thibodaux Massacre.

Days after, a local planter widow Mary Pugh wrote, “I think this will settle the question of who is to rule the nigger or the white man for the next fifty years.” It was a far-sighted comment— black farm workers in the South wouldn’t have the opportunity to unionize for generations.

Years after the Thirteenth Amendment brought freedom, cane cutters’ working lives were already “barely distinguishable” from slavery, argues journalist and author John DeSantis. (His book, The Thibodaux Massacre: Racial Violence and the 1887 Sugar Cane Labor Strike, is an excellent and compelling account of the massacre.) With no land to own or rent, workers and their families lived in old slave cabins. They toiled in gangs, just like their ancestors had for nearly a century. Growers gave workers meals but paid famine wages of as little as 42 cents a day (91 cents per hour in today’s money, for a 12-hour shift).

Instead of cash, workers got scrip that bought basics at high prices at plantation stores.

But they had advantages that their counterparts in cotton areas lacked. Planters needed their labor, and growers living on thin margins failed to attract migrant laborers to replace local workers, especially in the crucial rolling season when the sugarcane needed to be cut and pressed in short order.

In the sugar parishes arcing through the southern part of the state from Berwick Bay to the Mississippi River, African-American men voted. The Republican Party, which supported black civil rights, was stronger in sugar country than anywhere else in the state. By the late 1860s, African-Americans became legislators or sheriffs, and black volunteer militias drilled, despite living and working conditions still bearing the marks of slavery.

In 1874, nine years after slavery ended in the United States, cane cutters demanded a second emancipation. They wanted a living wage, or at least the chance to rent on shares. Planters wanted to cut wages after the lean harvest of 1873-74 coincided with an economic recession, and while Louisiana growers produced 95 percent of the nation’s domestic sugar and molasses, they were losing market share to cheaper foreign sugars.

Sensing they were in a strong bargaining position, workers banded together in several sugar parishes, including St. Mary, Iberia, Terrebonne, and Lafourche, demanding cash wages of $1.25 per day, or $1.00 if meals were included.

But the growers refused, upset that African-American workers were demanding an end to their paternalistic work regime. So African-American leaders like Hamp Keys, a former Terrebonne Parish legislator, called a strike.

Keys led a march from Houma to Southdown Plantation in Terrebonne, rallying workers with a fiery speech. The sight of black protesters riled growers, and acting with their interests in mind, the parish’s African-American sheriff formed a posse of whites to face down strikers. Surprised at the opposition, Keys’s marchers retreated.

In the state capital of New Orleans (relocated to Baton Rouge in 1882), Republican Governor William Pitt Kellogg also backed growers. But he was under siege from the Louisiana White League, a paramilitary white supremacist group formed in 1874 to intimidate Republicans and keep African-Americans from voting. Despite Kellogg’s being a pro-growth moderate who favored low taxes, White Leaguers tried to oust him in a violent coup. The Battle of Liberty Place, as it was called, pitted white militiamen against federal troops and metropolitan police. Governor Kellogg was temporarily forced out of New Orleans. He returned under guard but would be Louisiana’s last Republican governor for more than 100 years.

America was retreating from Republican-led Reconstruction and abandoning civil rights. African-Americans in sugar regions kept the right to vote, but their influence in state elections was waning. As W. E. B. Du Bois put it in Black Reconstruction in America, “The slave went free; stood a brief moment in the sun; then moved back again into slavery.”

Sugar workers attempted another strike in 1880, and both growers and workers resorted to sporadic violence. But time was on the growers’ side. African-Americans were being disarmed and thrown out of office, and some were leased out to hard labor for petty and trumped-up crimes. With few options available by 1887, Terrebonne sugar workers reached out to the Knights of Labor.

The Knights was the biggest and most powerful union in America. It began organizing African-American workers in 1883 in separate locals (a local is a bargaining unit of a broader union). Despite segregation, the Knights organized women and farm workers. And it made strides against Jim Crow. At the Knights’ 1886 national convention in Richmond, Virginia, leaders risked violence by insisting that a black delegate introduce Virginia’s segregationist governor.

Across the states of the former Confederacy, whites viewed organized labor as agitation that threatened the emerging Jim Crow order. Even in the North and Midwest, the Knights fought an uphill battle against authorities who sided with railroad and mine owners. Several states called out militias to break strikes during the late nineteenth century, but the Knights was at its peak of popularity in the 1880s.

In Louisiana, the Knights organized sugar workers into seven locals of 100 to 150 members each. Hamp Keys joined former black leaders like ex-sheriff William Kennedy. In August of 1887, the Knights met with the St. Mary branch of the Louisiana Sugar Planters Association asking for improved wages. And again the growers refused.

So the Knights raised the stakes in October of 1887 as the rolling season approached. Junius Bailey, a 29-year-old schoolteacher, served as local president in Terrebonne. His office sent a communique all over the region asking for $1.25 a day cash wages, and local workers’ committees followed up, going directly to growers with the same demand.

But instead of bargaining, growers fired union members. Planters like future Supreme Court Chief Justice Edward Douglass White kicked workers off the land, ordering any who stayed arrested. Siding with growers, Democratic newspapers circulated false reports of black-on-white violence. “The most vicious and unruly set of negroes,” were at the Rienzi Plantation near Thibodaux, the New Orleans Daily Picayune reported. “The leader of them said to-day that no power on earth could remove them unless they were moved as corpses.”

As the cane ripened, growers called on the governor to use muscle against the strikers. And Samuel D. McEnery, Democratic governor and former planter, obliged, calling for the assistance of several all-white Louisiana militias under the command of ex-Confederate General P. G. T. Beauregard. One group toted a .45 caliber Gatling gun--a hand-cranked machine gun--around two parishes before parking it in front of the Thibodaux courthouse. An army cannon was set up in front of the jail.

Then the killings started. In St. Mary, the Attakapas Rangers joined a sheriff’s posse facing down a group of black strikers. When one of the workers reached into a pocket, posse members opened fire on the crowd, “and four men were shot dead where they stood,” a newspaper reported. Terror broke the strike in St. Mary Parish.

In neighboring Terrebonne, some small growers came to the bargaining table, but larger planters hired strike-breakers from Vicksburg, Mississippi, 200 miles to the north, promising high wages and bringing them down on trains. The replacement workers were also African Americans, but they lacked experience in the canebrakes. As they arrived, militiamen evicted strikers.

And Thibodaux, in Lafourche Parish, was becoming a refuge for displaced workers. Some moved into vacant houses in town, while others camped along bayous and roadsides. Reports circulated of African-American women gossiping about a planned riot. Violence broke out in nearby Lockport on Bayou Lafourche when Moses Pugh, a black worker, shot and wounded Richard Foret, a planter, in self-defense. A militia unit arrived and mounted a bayonet charge on gathered workers, firing a volley in the air.

But the strike was gaining national attention. “Do the workingmen of the country understand the significance of this movement?” asked Washington D.C.’s National Republican, pointing out that sugar workers were “forced to work at starvation wages, in the richest spot under the American flag.” If forced back to the fields at gun point, no wage worker was safe from employer intimidation.

In Thibodaux, Lafourche Parish District Judge Taylor Beattie declared martial law. Despite being a Republican, Beattie was an ex-Confederate and White League member. He authorized local white vigilantes to barricade the town, identifying strikers and demanding passes from any African-American coming or going. And before dawn on Wednesday, the 23rd of November, pistol shots coming from a cornfield injured two white guards.

The response was a massacre. “There were several companies of white men and they went around night and day shooting colored men who took part in the strike,” said Reverend T. Jefferson Rhodes of the Moses Baptist Church in Thibodaux. Going from house to house, gunmen ordered Jack Conrad (a Union Civil War Veteran), his son Grant, and his brother-in-law Marcelin out of their house. Marcelin protested he was not a striker but was shot and killed anyway. As recounted in John DeSantis' book, Clarisse Conrad watched as her brother Grant “got behind a barrel and the white men got behind the house and shot him dead.” Jack Conrad was shot several times in the arms and chest. He lived and later identified one of the attackers as his employer.

One strike leader found in an attic was taken to the town common, told to run, and shot to pieces by a firing squad. An eyewitness told a newspaper that “no less than thirty-five negroes were killed outright,” including old and young, men and women. “The negroes offered no resistance; they could not, as the killing was unexpected.” Survivors took to the woods and swamps. Killings continued on plantations, and bodies were dumped in a site that became a landfill.

Workers returned to the fields on growers’ terms while whites cheered a Jim Crow victory. The Daily Picayune blamed black unionizers for the violence, saying that they provoked white citizens, suggesting the strikers “would burn the town and end the lives of the white women and children with their cane knives.” Flipping the narrative, the paper argued, “It was no longer a question of against labor, but one of law-abiding citizens against assassins.”

The union died with the strikers, and the assassins went unpunished. There was no federal inquiry, and even the coroner’s inquest refused to point a finger at the murderers. Sugar planter Andrew Price was among the attackers that morning. He won a seat in Congress the next year.

The massacre helped keep unions out of the South at just the moment it was industrializing. Textile manufacturers were moving out of New England, chasing low wages. And after textile factories closed in the 20th century, auto, manufacturing, and energy companies opened in southern states in part for the non-union workforce.

Southern black farm workers would not attempt to unionize again, until the 1930s when the Southern Tenant Farmers Union attracted both white and African American members. But it too was met by a violent racist backlash. The struggle for southern unions continued into the Civil Rights era. On the night before he was assassinated in Memphis, Martin Luther King Jr. gave a speech supporting striking sanitation workers. He urged his audience “to give ourselves to this struggle until the end. ...You may not be on strike. But either we go up together, or we go down together.”

Editor's Note, December 4, 2017: This story has been updated to further highlight the exceptional research conducted by author John DeSantis in his book. It has also been edited to remove the reference to Jack Conrad being a labor organizer. Due to an editing error, the photo caption incorrectly listed Laurel Valley as a place of refuge for African-American planters.

====== 186 ========

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE SALEM WITCH TRIALS

The Salem witch trials occurred in colonial Massachusetts between 1692 and 1693. More than 200 people were accused of practicing witchcraft—the Devil's magic—and 20 were executed. Eventually, the colony admitted the trials were a mistake and compensated the families of those convicted. Since then, the story of the trials has become synonymous with paranoia and injustice, and it continues to beguile the popular imagination more than 300 years later.

Salem Struggling

Several centuries ago, many practicing Christians, and those of other religions, had a strong belief that the Devil could give certain people known as witches the power to harm others in return for their loyalty. A "witchcraft craze" rippled through Europe from the 1300s to the end of the 1600s. Tens of thousands of supposed witches—mostly women—were executed. Though the Salem trials came on just as the European craze was winding down, local circumstances explain their onset.

In 1689, English rulers William and Mary started a war with France in the American colonies. Known as King William's War to colonists, it ravaged regions of upstate New York, Nova Scotia and Quebec, sending refugees into the county of Essex and, specifically, Salem Village in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. (Salem Village is present-day Danvers, Massachusetts; colonial Salem Town became what's now Salem.)

The displaced people created a strain on Salem's resources. This aggravated the existing rivalry between families with ties to the wealth of the port of Salem and those who still depended on agriculture. Controversy also brewed over Reverend Samuel Parris, who became Salem Village's first ordained minister in 1689, and was disliked because of his rigid ways and greedy nature. The Puritan villagers believed all the quarreling was the work of the Devil.

In January of 1692, Reverend Parris' daughter Elizabeth, age 9, and niece Abigail Williams, age 11, started having "fits." They screamed, threw things, uttered peculiar sounds and contorted themselves into strange positions, and a local doctor blamed the supernatural. Another girl, Ann Putnam, age 11, experienced similar episodes. On February 29, under pressure from magistrates Jonathan Corwin and John Hathorne, the girls blamed three women for afflicting them: Tituba, the Parris' Caribbean slave; Sarah Good, a homeless beggar; and Sarah Osborne, an elderly impoverished woman.

Witch Hunt

All three women were brought before the local magistrates and interrogated for several days, starting on March 1, 1692. Osborne claimed innocence, as did Good. But Tituba confessed, "The Devil came to me and bid me serve him." She described elaborate images of black dogs, red cats, yellow birds and a "black man" who wanted her to sign his book. She admitted that she signed the book and said there were several other witches looking to destroy the Puritans. All three women were put in jail.

With the seed of paranoia planted, a stream of accusations followed for the next few months. Charges against Martha Corey, a loyal member of the Church in Salem Village, greatly concerned the community; if she could be a witch, then anyone could. Magistrates even questioned Sarah Good's 4-year-old daughter, Dorothy, and her timid answers were construed as a confession. The questioning got more serious in April when Deputy Governor Thomas Danforth and his assistants attended the hearings. Dozens of people from Salem and other Massachusetts villages were brought in for questioning.

On May 27, 1692, Governor William Phipps ordered the establishment of a Special Court of Oyer (to hear) and Terminer (to decide) for Suffolk, Essex and Middlesex counties. The first case brought to the special court was Bridget Bishop, an older woman known for her gossipy habits and promiscuity. When asked if she committed witchcraft, Bishop responded, "I am as innocent as the child unborn." The defense must not have been convincing, because she was found guilty and, on June 10, became the first person hanged on what was later called Gallows Hill.

Five days later, respected minister Cotton Mather wrote a letter imploring the court not to allow spectral evidence—testimony about dreams and visions. The court largely ignored this request and five people were sentenced and hanged in July, five more in August and eight in September. On October 3, following in his son's footsteps, Increase Mather, then president of Harvard, denounced the use of spectral evidence: "It were better that ten suspected witches should escape than one innocent person be condemned."

Governor Phipps, in response to Mather's plea and his own wife being questioned for witchcraft, prohibited further arrests, released many accused witches and dissolved the Court of Oyer and Terminer on October 29. Phipps replaced it with a Superior Court of Judicature, which disallowed spectral evidence and only condemned 3 out of 56 defendants. Phipps eventually pardoned all who were in prison on witchcraft charges by May 1693. But the damage had been done: 19 were hanged on Gallows Hill, a 71-year-old man was pressed to death with heavy stones, several people died in jail and nearly 200 people, overall, had been accused of practicing "the Devil's magic."

Restoring Good Names

Following the trials and executions, many involved, like judge Samuel Sewall, publicly confessed error and guilt. On January 14, 1697, the General Court ordered a day of fasting and soul-searching for the tragedy of Salem. In 1702, the court declared the trials unlawful. And in 1711, the colony passed a bill restoring the rights and good names of those accused and granted £600 restitution to their heirs. However, it was not until 1957—more than 250 years later—that Massachusetts formally apologized for the events of 1692.

In the 20th century, artists and scientists alike continued to be fascinated by the Salem witch trials. Playwright Arthur Miller resurrected the tale with his 1953 play The Crucible, using the trials as an allegory for the McCarthyism paranoia in the 1950s. Additionally, numerous hypotheses have been devised to explain the strange behavior that occurred in Salem in 1692. One of the most concrete studies, published in Science in 1976 by psychologist Linnda Caporael, blamed the abnormal habits of the accused on the fungus ergot, which can be found in rye, wheat and other cereal grasses. Toxicologists say that eating ergot-contaminated foods can lead to muscle spasms, vomiting, delusions and hallucinations. Also, the fungus thrives in warm and damp climates—not too unlike the swampy meadows in Salem Village, where rye was the staple grain during the spring and summer months.

In August 1992, to mark the 300th anniversary of the trials, Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel dedicated the Witch Trials Memorial in Salem. Also in Salem, the Peabody Essex Museum houses the original court documents, and the town's most-visited attraction, the Salem Witch Museum, attests to the public's enthrallment with the 1692 hysteria.

Editor's note - October 27, 2011: Thanks to Professor Darin Hayton for pointing out an error in this article. While the exact number of supposed witches killed in Europe isn't known, the best estimate is closer to tens of thousands of victims, not hundreds of thousands. We have fixed the text to address this issue.

====== 187 ========

P.T. BARNUM ISN’T THE HERO THE “GREATEST SHOWMAN” WANTS YOU TO THINK

Some five decades into his life, Phineas Taylor Barnum from Bethel, Connecticut, had remade himself from his humble beginnings as an impoverished country boy into a showman—indeed the “greatest showman,” as the new musical about his life would say—of his generation.

Thanks to a combination of brilliant marketing tactics and less-than-upstanding business practices, Barnum had truly arrived, and with his book Humbugs of the World, in 1865, Barnum wanted to inform you, his audience, that he hadn’t achieved his rags-to-riches success story by scamming the public.

Barnum's career trafficked in curiosities, which he served up to a public hungry for such entertainment, regardless of how factual or ethical such displays were. His legacy in show business stretched from the American Museum to "P. T. Barnum's Grand Traveling Museum, Menagerie, Caravan & Hippodrome" (the predecessor of “Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey” circus) near the end of his life. Each were full of bigger-than-life ideas marketed to an audience interested in mass, and often crass, entertainment.

As it was “generally understood,” Barnum wrote in the book, the term humbug “consists in putting on glittering appearances—outside show—novel expedients, by which to suddenly arrest public attention, and attract the public eye and ear.” And Barnum wanted to make it clear such a practice was justified. “[T]here are various trades and occupations which need only notoriety to insure success,” he claimed, concluding no harm, no foul, so long as at the end of the day customers felt like they got their money’s worth.

Growing up in the antebellum North, Barnum took his first real dip into showmanship at age 25 when he purchased the right to “rent” an aged black woman by the name of Joice Heth, whom an acquaintance was trumpeting around Philadelphia as the 161-year-old former nurse of George Washington.

By this time, Barnum had tried working as a lottery manager, a shopkeeper and newspaper editor. He was living in New York City, employed at a boarding home and in a grocery store, and was hungry for a money-making gimmick.

"I had long fancied that I could succeed if I could only get hold of a public exhibition,” he reflected about his life at the time in his 1855 autobiography, The Life of P.T. Barnum, Written by Himself.

With Heth, he saw an opportunity to strike it rich. Though slavery was outlawed in Pennsylvania and New York at the time, a loophole allowed him to lease her for a year for $1,000, borrowing $500 to complete the sale.



In a research paper on Barnum and his legacy misrepresenting African peoples, Bernth Lindfors, professor emeritus at the University of Texas at Austin, aptly sums up significance of that dark transaction as the launching point of Barnum the showman— someone who “began his career in show business by going into debt to buy a superannuated female slave, who turned out to be a fraud."

It’s a story that The Greatest Showman, which presents Barnum as a smooth-talking Harold Hill-type lovable con, doesn’t address. Hugh Jackman’s Barnum would never be a person comfortable purchasing an enslaved woman to turn a tidy profit. “Rewrite the Stars,” indeed, to quote a song from the new movie.

As Benjamin Reiss, professor and chair of English at Emory University, and author of The Showman and The Slave, of Barnum, explains in an interview with Smithsonian.com, Barnum’s legacy has become a sort of cultural touchstone. “The story of his life that we choose to tell is in part the story that we choose to tell about American culture,” he says. “We can choose to erase things or dance around touchy subjects and present a kind of feel good story, or we can use it as an opportunity to look at very complex and troubling histories that our culture has been grappling with for centuries.”

That begins with Heth, Barnum’s first big break. It was while on tour with her when he observed a public hungry for spectacle. “Human curiosities, or lusus naturae—freaks of nature—were among the most popular traveling entertainments of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries,” Reiss explains in his book, but by the time Barnum went on tour with Heth, there was a shift. “[B]y the 1830s the display of grotesquely embodied human forms was for some populist carnivalesque entertainment and for others an offense to genteel sensibilities,” Reiss writes. So while the Jacksonian press in New York, “the vanguard of mass culture,” covered Heth’s shows breathlessly, he found while following Barnum’s paper trail that the more old-fashioned New England press bristled at the display. As the newspaper the Courier wrote cuttingly:

“Those who imagine they can contemplate with delight a breathing skeleton, subjected to the same sort of discipline that is sometimes exercised in a menagerie to induce the inferior animals to play unnatural pranks for the amusement of barren spectators, will find food to their taste by visiting Joice Heth.”

Still, with Heth, Barnum proved himself capable of being nimble enough to dip and swerve, playing up different stories of her to appeal to different audiences across the northeast. Heth, of course, was not alive in George Washington’s time. Whether Barnum believed the fable frankly doesn’t really matter. While he later claimed he did, he wasn’t above making up his own myths about Heth to attract people to see her; he once planted a story that claimed the enslaved woman wasn’t even a person at all. “What purports to be a remarkably old woman is simply a curiously constructed automaton,” he wrote.

When she died in February 1836, rather than let her go in peace, Barnum had one more act up his sleeve: he drummed up a final public spectacle, hosting a live autopsy in a New York Saloon. There, 1500 spectators paid 50 cents to see the dead woman cut up, “revealing” that she was likely half her purported age.

After Heth, Barnum found several other acts to tour—notably the coup of getting the world-famous Jenny Lind, “the Swedish Nightingale,” to travel across the Atlantic to make her critically and popularly acclaimed American debut with him—until he became the proprietor of the American Museum in December 1841 in New York.

At the American Museum, more than 4,000 visitors poured per day to browse some 850,000 “interesting curiosities” at the price of 25 cents a trip. The fake and the real commingled in the space, with imported, exotic live animals mixing alongside hoaxes like the so-called Feejee mermaid, a preserved monkey’s head sewn onto the preserved tail of a fish.

Most uncomfortably, in the museum, Barnum continued to present “freakishness” in the form of “living curiosities.” One of the most popular displays featured a man billed as “a creature, found in the wilds of Africa...supposed to be a mixture of the wild native African and the orang outang, a kind of man-monkey.” The offensive poster concluded: “For want of a positive name, the creature was called ‘WHAT IS IT?’”

In truth, WHAT IS IT? was an African-American man named William Henry Johnson. Before coming to the show, he served as a cook for another showman in Barnum’s Connecticut hometown. Similar racial othering permeated the rest of Barnum’s “living curiosities,” from the “Aztec” children who were actually from El Salvador, to the real, but exoticized, “Siamese Twins,” Chang and Eng.

As James W. Cook, professor of history and American studies at the University of Michigan, argues in The Art of Deception: Playing with Fraud in the Age of Barnum, it was because of the “bipartisan mass audience” he built through such displays, which preyed on ideas of African inferiority and racial othering, that Barnum then decided to throw his hat into the political ring.

During his successful run for the Connecticut General Assembly in 1865 something changed, however. Suddenly, Cook writes, Barnum “began to express a novel sympathy and regret about the subjugation of African-Americans—or at least to approach civil rights matters at the end of the Civil War with a new, somewhat softer vision of racial paternalism.” During a failed run for Congress, he even “confessed” during a campaign speech that while living in the South he had owned slaves himself, actions he since regretted. “I did more,” he said. “I whipped my slaves. I ought to have been whipped a thousand times for this myself. But by then I was a Democrat—one of those nondescript Democrats, who are Northern men with Southern principles.”

It’s a powerful speech, but how much of his remorse was spin is hard to say. “With Barnum you never know if that’s part of the act or the contrition was genuine,” says Reiss. “People change and it’s possible he really did feel this, although throughout his career as a showman there were many episodes of exhibiting non-white people in degrading ways.”

With Heth at least, as Reiss says, he clearly viewed her as an opportunity and a piece of property at the beginning, something he bragged about constantly early in his career. But after he gained growing respectability following the Civil War, the story he so proudly boasted about changed.

That's because, when you break it down, as Reiss says, “he owned this woman, worked her for 10 to 12 hours a day near the end of her life, worked her to death and then, exploited her after death.” This history becomes, suddenly, an unsavory chapter for Barnum and so, Reiss says, there’s a shift in how he relays the story. He observes that his “narration gets shorter and shorter, more and more apologetic to the end.” Barnum’s later retelling rewrites history, as Reiss says, it “makes it seem like he didn’t quite know what he was doing and this was just a little blip on his road to greatness. In fact, this was the thing that started his career.”

Today, Barnum and his career arguably serve as a Rorschach test for where we are, and what kind of humbug tale we are willing to be sold. But if you’re looking clear eyed at Barnum, an undeniable fact of his biography is his role marketing racism to the masses. “He had these new ways of making racism seem fun and for people to engage in activities that degraded a racially subjected person in ways that were intimate and funny and surprising and novel,” says Reiss. “That’s part of his legacy, that’s part of what he left us, just as he also left us some really great jokes and circus acts and this kind of charming, wise-cracking ‘America’s uncle’ reputation. This is equally a part of his legacy.”

Rather than explore such dark notes, The Greatest Showman is more interested in spinning a pretty tale, a humbug, if you will, of a magnitude, that Barnum himself would likely tip his hat to.

But as the late historian Daniel Boorstin put it in his critical text, The Image, perhaps this revisionary storytelling shouldn’t be a surprise to those paying attention.

“Contrary to popular belief,” as Boorstin wrote, “Barnum's great discovery was not how easy it was to deceive the public, but rather, how much the public enjoyed being deceived.”

====== 188 ========

THESE MINESWEEPING BOATS PAVED THE WAY FOR D-DAY

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 189 ========

A HONEY BADGER AND MOLE SNAKE FIGHT TO THE DEATH

A group of orphaned lion cubs are facing an uncertain future. If they're to survive into adulthood, they will have to convince their reluctant aunt to share her kill with them.

Hostile Lioness Withholds Food From Hungry Orphaned Cubs (3:09)

It's 1942 and the USS Silversides, a U.S. submarine submerged in the Pacific, is frantically trying to dodge depth charges dropped by a Japanese warship. Even a near miss could be catastrophic.

Why Depth Charges Don't Have to Touch a Submarine to Sink It (3:52)

A group of five adolescent male lions - dubbed the Musketeers - are wandering the desert looking to find their own kingdom. They come across a lioness, but not all seem interested in settling down.

Five Young Lion Brothers Mate With One Lioness (3:44)

During spawning season, calamari squid become vulnerable in the shallow waters. But they do have one weapon that helps improve their odds - lightning fast jet propulsion.

How Spawning Squid Offer a Buffet for Predators (2:58)

In a sandy gully, a school of razorfish are being stalked by an invisible predator and a master of disguise: the crafty cuttlefish.

A Clever Cuttlefish Goes in for the Kill (1:55)

They might be delicious to us but in the ocean, calamari squid are formidable predators, using concealed tentacles which shoot out toward any prey within a three-foot radius.

The Remarkable Way Calamari Squid Catch Their Prey (1:37)

A marauding polar bear is about to be returned to the the wild, as far away as possible from the town of Churchill. To do that, the conservation team will need to tranquilize him, and then airlift him by helicopter.

A Polar Bear Released Back Into the Wild by Helicopter (2:12)

The San Gabriel Mountains lure lots of Angelenos looking for some quiet seclusion. One of the more famous was Leonard Cohen who spent five years there, searching for peace of mind.

This Footage of Jaguars in Panama Could Save Their Lives (3:39)

Conservationists have tracked down a polar bear who has taken to venturing into nearby Churchill. The next step is to airlift him by helicopter to a holding facility, and then back into the wild.

====== 190 ========

WHY BUILDING A CARBON FIBER CAR IS SO LABOR-INTENSIVE

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 191 ========

HOW KYLE MEYER’S PHOTO-TAPESTRIES GIVE VOICE TO A SILENCED COMMUNITY

When artist Kyle Meyer began photographing gay men in Swaziland, or eSwatini, five years ago, his subjects were initially wary about the exposure. Their concern was justified: Same-sex relationships are against the law there, and people who are suspected of being gay risk unemployment, ostracism and even violence.

“The LGBT community is pushed into a corner,” says Meyer, 33, whose series “Interwoven” explores sexual and gender identities in the southern African country. Meyer, who is openly gay and lives in New York, was forced back into the closet when he began traveling to Swaziland. “I could have easily ‘disappeared,’” he says.

Despite their anxieties, the men who agreed to have their portraits taken for the project, on view this month at the Yossi Milo Gallery in Manhattan, seemed to relish the idea of finally being seen for who they are. Inspired by the vibrant colors of Swazi wax cloth, Meyer asked them to pose wearing elaborate headdresses in patterns each man chose from fabric collected at a local market. Because the style is traditionally associated with Swazi women, the photo shoots offered a rare chance to play with gender norms and celebrate each man’s individual sense of beauty. “They just wanted to be heard,” Meyer says.

After every visit to Swaziland, Meyer returns to his Hudson Valley studio, where he prints the images on paper up to seven-and-a-half feet high. He then shreds the photographs and the fabric from the head wraps, and, using a technique he learned from Swazi basketmakers, spends as much as 60 hours weaving them together. It’s a meditative process—both craft and ritual—that adds a human touch to the otherwise mechanical medium of digital photography, and transforms what might simply be a striking image into an imposing, richly textured physical object. One critic praised the undertaking as “the perfect marriage of subject matter and process.” It is also practical: Meyer’s approach partially obscures the men’s identities, much as they are forced to hide their true selves behind what the artist calls “the fabric of society.”

It remains too dangerous to display his tapestries in Swaziland, but Meyer is hopeful they will be seen there one day. This past June a gay rights group organized the country’s first Pride parade, a festive—and peaceful—march through the capital.

====== 192 ========

THE UNFORGOTTEN: NEW VOICES OF THE HOLOCAUST

Never forget.

That has always been the idea behind teaching the Holocaust in schools and listening to eyewitness accounts. But as we mark the 80th anniversary of Kristallnacht this month and the youngest Holocaust survivors enter their ninth decade, the world is showing dangerous signs of memory loss.

In the United States, the number of neo-Nazi groups has been rising, from 99 in 2017 to 122 in 2018, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. Fascist groups are brazenly gathering and scoring political victories across Europe, from France and Hungary to Poland and, incredibly, Italy and Germany. Just last year a far-right German politician attacked the very premise of Berlin’s Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, saying, “This laughable policy of coming to terms with the past is crippling us.”

We at Smithsonian profoundly disagree. The work of coming to terms with the past and connecting it to the present is essential. The five stories that follow are about recovering lost history and understanding what happens when innocent young people are caught in the machinery of hatred and war.

Our main story is by Renia Spiegel, a spirited Polish teenager who spent her last days hiding from the Nazis. Her gift to us today is her journal, an eloquent account of a young woman’s consciousness blossoming in the midst of unimagined evil. Three-quarters of a century later, Smithsonian has translated her diary into English for the first time and drawn from the whole text to present her voice, her aspirations, her vivid observations, her rich emotional life. It’s a vital new contribution to our collective memory of the historic tragedy that the world seems on the verge of forgetting.

====== 193 ========

MARY KATHARINE GODDARD, THE WOMAN WHO SIGNED THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

As British forces chased George Washington’s Continental Army out of New Jersey in December 1776, a fearful Continental Congress packed the Declaration of Independence into a wagon and slipped out of Philadelphia to Baltimore. Weeks later, they learned that the Revolution had turned their way: Washington had crossed the Delaware River on Christmas Day and beaten the redcoats at Trenton and Princeton. Emboldened, the members of Congress ordered a second printing of the Declaration – and, for the first time, printed their names on it.

For the job, Congress turned to one of the most important journalists of America’s Revolutionary era. Also Baltimore’s postmaster, she was likely the United States government’s first female employee. At the bottom of the broadside, issued in January 1777, she too signed the Declaration: “Baltimore, in Maryland: Printed by Mary Katharine Goddard.”

For three years after taking over Baltimore’s six-month-old Maryland Journal from her vagabond, indebted brother, Goddard had advocated for the patriot cause. She’d editorialized against British brutality, reprinted Thomas Paine’s Common Sense, and published extra editions about Congress’ call to arms and the Battle of Bunker Hill. In her 23-year publishing career, Goddard earned a place in history as one of the most prominent publishers during the nation’s revolutionary era.

“The ever memorable 19th of April gave a conclusive answer to the questions of American freedom,” Goddard wrote in the Journal after the battles of Lexington and Concord in 1775. “What think ye of Congress now? That day. . . evidenced that Americans would rather die than live slaves!”



Born June 16, 1738, into a Connecticut family of printers and postmasters, Goddard was taught reading and math by her mother, Sarah, a well-tutored daughter of a wealthy landowner. She also studied Latin, French, and science in New London’s public school, where girls could receive hour-long lessons after the boys’ schooling was done for the day.

In 1755, the family’s fortunes changed when Goddard’s father, postmaster Giles Goddard, became too ill to work. Sarah sent Goddard’s younger brother, 15-year-old William, to New Haven to work as a printer’s apprentice. Seven years later, after Giles’s death, the Goddards moved to Providence, and Sarah financed Rhode Island’s first newspaper, the Providence Gazette. William, then 21, was listed as publisher. “[It] carried his imprint,” wrote Sharon M. Murphy in the 1983 book Great Women of the Press, “but displayed from the start his mother’s business sense and his sister’s steadiness.”

Over the next 15 years, William, a restless and impulsive young entrepreneur, moved from Providence to Philadelphia to Baltimore to start newspapers, always putting his mother or sister in charge of his previous businesses as he went. In 1768, William sold the Providence paper and convinced Sarah and Mary Katharine to move to Philadelphia to help run his Pennsylvania Chronicle. In 1770, Sarah died, and William, who was feuding with his financial partners, left the Chronicle in his sister’s hands.

“She was dependable and he brilliantly erratic,” Ward L. Miner wrote in his 1962 biography, William Goddard, Newspaperman. Mary Katharine kept her brother’s businesses running while he did time in debtor’s prison in 1771 and 1775. In February 1774, William handed control of his fledgling Maryland Journal over to her. That allowed him to concentrate on building his most enduring business: a private postal service, free of British control, which later became the U.S. Post Office.

Mary Katharine Goddard took over the Maryland Journal just as the colonists’ anger at British rule surged toward revolution. By June 1774, she was publishing reports on Britain’s blockade of Boston Harbor. In early April 1775, she endorsed the women-led homespun movement against British textiles, encouraging women to raise flax and wool and embrace frugality. She published Common Sense in two installments in the paper, and covered the Revolution’s first battles with fervor. “The British behaved with savage barbarity,” she wrote in her edition of June 7, 1775.

That July, the Continental Congress adopted William Goddard’s postal system, then promptly appointed the more reliable Benjamin Franklin as postmaster general. Mary Katharine was named Baltimore’s postmaster that October, which likely made her the United States’ only female employee when the nation was born in July 1776. When Congress turned to her to print copies of the Declaration the following year, she recognized her role in a historical moment. Though she usually signed her newspaper “M.K. Goddard,” she printed her full name on the document.

The war years were tough on Goddard’s businesses. Because of its meager treasury, Congress often failed to pay her, so she paid post riders herself. She published the Maryland Journal irregularly in 1776, probably because of paper shortages. In 1778, she announced her willingness to barter with subscribers, accepting payment in beeswax, flour, lard, butter, beef or pork. Yet she was able to boast, in a November 1779 issue, that the Journal had as extensive a circulation as any newspaper in the United States.

Goddard “supported her Business with Spirit and Address, amidst a Complication of Difficulties,” wrote her brother and his new partner, Eleazer Oswald, in a 1779 advertisement. In the same broadsheet, they declared that their new paper mill would not interfere “in the smallest Degree” with Goddard’s business.

But in January 1784, William Goddard apparently forced his sister out of the business and took her position as publisher of the Maryland Journal for himself. Later that year, the siblings published competing almanacs. William included a screed that attacked his sister as “a hypocritical character” and insulted her “double-faced Almanack,” “containing a mean, vulgar and common-place Selection of Articles.”

There’s no evidence that Goddard and her brother ever spoke again. When William got married in Rhode Island in 1786, Mary Katharine did not attend. A mutual friend, John Carter, wrote her a letter describing the wedding and suggesting, probably in vain, that the siblings reconcile. “Dear Miss Katy,” begins the letter -- a rare window into her personal relationships.

In October 1789, she lost her job as postmaster of Baltimore. The newly appointed postmaster general, Samuel Osgood, replaced her with John White of Annapolis. John Burrell, Osgood’s assistant, justified the move on sexist grounds. Since supervision of nearby post offices was being added to the job description, Burrell said, “more travelling might be necessary than a woman could undertake.”

Two hundred prominent Baltimore residents signed a letter demanding Goddard’s reinstatement. Goddard herself appealed to President George Washington and the U.S. Senate for her job back. Her petition echoes the disappointment she must’ve also felt when her brother pushed her out of the Journal.

“She hath been discharged without the smallest imputation of any Fault,” Goddard wrote, in the third person, to the Senate in January 1790, when she was 51. “These are but poor rewards indeed for fourteen Years faithful Service, performed in the worst of times,” she argued. Her “little Office,” Goddard added, was “established by her own Industry in the best years of her life, & whereon depended all her future Prospects of subsistence.”

Washington refused to intervene, and the Senate never answered Goddard’s letter. She spent the next 20 years running a bookstore in Baltimore and selling dry goods. Never married, she died in Baltimore on August 12, 1816, at age 78, leaving her property to her servant, Belinda Starling, “to recompense the faithful performance of duties to me.”

Goddard, as a contemporary of hers declared, was “a woman of extraordinary judgment, energy, nerve, and strong good sense.” Though sex discrimination and her ne’er-do-well brother ended her career too soon, Goddard left a mark as one of the Revolutionary era’s most accomplished publishers and a female pioneer in the U.S. government. None of Goddard’s letters survive, and she revealed little about herself in her journalism. Instead, our best evidence of her personality is her work, steady yet animated by a passion for American liberty.

At the Smithsonian's National Postal Museum in Washington, D.C., the story of postmaster Mary Katherine Goddard's is featured in the permanent exhibition "Binding the Nation."

Editor's note, November 15, 2018: The photo leading this story has been changed. Though the portrait in the original photo is sometimes identified as Goddard, it is most likely an image of actress Ann Burnton Merry, pasted onto a copy of the almanac, perhaps by an owner who treated it as a scrapbook.

====== 194 ========

HOW AN ASTONISHING HOLOCAUST DIARY RESURFACED IN AMERICA

On January 31, 1939, a 15-year-old Jewish girl sat down with a school notebook in a cramped apartment in a provincial town in Poland and began writing about her life. She missed her mother, who lived far away in Warsaw. She missed her father, who was ensconced on the farm where her family once lived. She missed that home, where she had spent the happiest days of her life.

The girl’s name was Renia Spiegel, and she and her sister, Ariana, were staying with their grandparents that August when the Germans and the Russians divided Poland. Their mother was stranded on the Nazi side; her daughters were stuck across the border, under Soviet control. During the next few years, their father, Bernard, disappeared and, later, was eventually presumed killed in the war.

Over the course of more than 700 pages, between the ages of 15 and 18, Renia wrote funny stories about her friends, charming descriptions of the natural world, lonely appeals to her absent parents, passionate confidences about her boyfriend, and chilling observations of the machinery of nations engaged in cataclysmic violence. The notebook pages, blue-lined and torn at the edges, are as finely wrinkled as the face of the old woman the girl might have become. Her script is delicate, with loops at the feet of the capital letters and sweetly curving lines to cross the T’s.

Readers will naturally contrast Renia’s diary with Anne Frank’s. Renia was a little older and more sophisticated, writing frequently in poetry as well as in prose. She was also living out in the world instead of in seclusion. Reading such different firsthand accounts reminds us that each of the Holocaust’s millions of victims had a unique and dramatic experience. At a time when the Holocaust has receded so far into the past that even the youngest survivors are elderly, it’s especially powerful to discover a youthful voice like Renia’s, describing the events in real time.

A diary is an especially potent form in an age of digital information. It’s a “human-paced experience of how someone’s mind works and how their ideas unfold,” says Sherry Turkle, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies the role of technology in our lives. Throughout many continuous pages, she says, diary authors “pause, they hesitate, they backtrack, they don’t know what they think.” For the reader, she says, this prolonged engagement in another person’s thinking produces empathy. And empathy these days is in dangerously short supply.

The history we learn in school proceeds with linear logic—each chain of events seems obvious and inexorable. Reading the diary of a person muddling through that history is jarringly different, more like the confusing experience of actually living it. In real time, people are slow to recognize events taking place around them, because they have other priorities; because these events happen invisibly; because changes are incremental and people keep on recalibrating. The shock of Renia’s diary is watching a teenage girl with the standard preoccupations—friends, family, schoolwork, boyfriend—come to an inescapable awareness of the violence that is engulfing her.

* * *

Renia began her diary feeling alone. Her gregarious, saucy 8-year-old sister Ariana was an aspiring film star who had moved to Warsaw with their mother so she could pursue her acting career. Renia had been sent to live with her grandmother, who owned a stationery store, and her grandfather, a construction contractor, in sleepy Przemysl, a small city in southern Poland about 150 miles east of Krakow. Ariana was visiting her at the end of that summer when war broke out. The sisters fled the bombardment of Przemysl on foot. When they returned, the town was under Soviet occupation.

Two years later, just as the Germans were preparing to invade the Soviet Union, Renia had her first kiss with a green-eyed Jewish boy named Zygmunt Schwarzer, son of a doctor and a concert pianist. Renia, Zygmunt and Maciek Tuchman, a friend of Zygmunt’s (who now goes by the name Marcel), became a kind of trio. “We were tied to one another and living each other’s lives,” Tuchman recalled in a recent interview at his home in New York City.

Just two weeks before her 18th birthday in June 1942, Renia described understanding “ecstasy” for the first time with Zygmunt. But as her romance intensified, so did the war. “Wherever I look there is bloodshed,” she wrote. “There is killing, murder.” The Nazis forced Renia and her Jewish friends and relatives to wear white armbands with a blue Star of David. In July, they were ordered into a closed ghetto, behind barbed wire, under watch of guards, with more than 20,000 other Jews. “Today at 8 o’clock we have been shut away in the ghetto,” Renia writes. “I live here now; the world is separated from me, and I’m separated from the world.”

Zygmunt had begun working with the local resistance, and he managed a few days later to spirit Renia and Ariana out of the ghetto before an Aktion when the Nazis deported Jews to the death camps. Zygmunt installed Renia, along with his parents, in the attic of a tenement house where his uncle lived. The following day, Zygmunt took 12-year-old Ariana to the father of her Christian friend.

On July 30, German soldiers discovered Zygmunt’s parents and Renia hiding in the attic and executed them.

An anguished Zygmunt, who had held onto the diary during Renia’s brief time in hiding, wrote the last entry in his own jagged script: “Three shots! Three lives lost! All I can hear are shots, shots.” Unlike in most other journals of war children, Renia’s death was written onto the page.

* * *

Ariana escaped. Her friend’s father, a member of the resistance, traveled with Ariana to Warsaw, telling Gestapo officials inspecting the train with their dogs that she was his own daughter. Soon Ariana was back in her mother’s custody.

Her mother, Roza, was one of those astonishingly resourceful people who was marshaling every skill and connection to survive the war. She’d gotten fake papers with a Catholic name, Maria Leszczynska, and parlayed her German fluency into a job as assistant manager of Warsaw’s grandest hotel, Hotel Europejski, which had become a headquarters for Wehrmacht officers. She’d managed to see her children at least twice during the war, but those visits had been brief and clandestine. The woman now going by the name Maria was fearful of drawing attention to herself.

When Ariana was spirited out of the ghetto and back to Warsaw in 1942, Maria turned in desperation to a close friend with connections to the archbishop of Poland. Soon the girl was baptized with her own fake name, Elzbieta, and dispatched to a convent school. Taking catechism, praying the rosary, attending classes with the Ursuline sisters—never breathing a word about her true identity—the child actress played the most demanding role of her life.

By the end of the war, through a series of bold and fantastical moves—including a romance with a Wehrmacht officer—Maria found herself working for the Americans in Austria. Almost every Jew she knew was dead: Renia, her parents, her husband, her friends and neighbors. One of her sole surviving relatives was a brother who had settled in France and married a socialite. He invited Maria and Elzbieta to join him there—and even sent a car to fetch them. Instead, Maria procured visas for herself and her child to have a fresh start in the United States.

After burying so much of their identities, it was difficult to know which pieces to resurrect. Maria felt Catholicism had saved her life, and she clung to it. “They don’t like Jews too much here either,” their sponsor told them when they landed in New York. Ariana-cum-Elzbieta, now known as Elizabeth, enrolled in a Polish convent boarding school in Pennsylvania, where she told none of her many friends that she was born a Jew. Maria remarried, to an American, a man who was prone to making anti-Semitic comments, and she never told her new husband about her true identity, her daughter later recalled. When she died, she was buried in a Catholic cemetery in upstate New York.

Elizabeth grew up to become a schoolteacher. She met her husband-to-be, George Bellak, at a teachers’ union party, and she was drawn to him partly because he too was a Jew who had fled the Nazi takeover of Europe—in his case, Austria. But for a long time, Elizabeth didn’t tell George what they had in common. The fear of exposure was a part of her now. She baptized her two children and didn’t tell even them her secret. She began to forget some of the details herself.

* * *

But her past was not finished with her yet. In the 1950s, when Elizabeth and her mother were living in a studio apartment on Manhattan’s West 90th Street, Zygmunt Schwarzer tromped up the stairs, Elizabeth recalls. He had also survived the war and also resettled in New York City, and he was as handsome and charming as ever, calling Elizabeth by her childhood nickname—“Arianka!” He carried with him something precious: Renia’s diary. There it was, the pale blue-lined notebook, containing her sister’s words, her intelligence and sensitivity and her growing understanding of love and violence—delivered to this new life in America. Elizabeth could not bring herself to read it.

No one alive today seems to be able to explain the mystery of how, precisely, Renia’s diary had made its way from Poland to Schwarzer’s hands in New York—not Elizabeth, Tuchman or Schwarzer’s son, Mitchell. Perhaps Zygmunt Schwarzer had given it to a non-Jewish neighbor for safekeeping back in Poland; perhaps someone discovered it in a hiding spot and sent it to the International Red Cross for routing to the owner. After the war, photos, personal items and documents reached survivors in all sorts of circuitous ways.

What’s known is that by the time Schwarzer appeared with the diary, he’d survived Auschwitz Birkenau, Landsberg and other camps. In a testimony recorded in 1986, now on file at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Schwarzer said that Josef Mengele, the famous death camp doctor, personally examined him—and decided to let him live. Another time, he said, he was to be put to death for stealing clothes when a girlfriend showed up to pay a diamond for his release.

His camp was liberated in the spring of 1945. By the autumn of that year, his son says, he was studying medicine in Germany under former Nazi professors. He married a Jewish woman from Poland. After he finished school, they immigrated to America under the newly created Displaced Persons Act, the country’s first piece of refugee legislation. After a stint in the U.S. Army, he had a happy career as a pediatrician in Queens and on Long Island. His two children remember him as gregarious, brilliant, funny and kind, the sort of person who wanted to taste every food, see every sight and strike up conversation with every passerby, as if surviving the war had only amplified his zest for life.

But as he gained more distance from the past, his internal life grew darker. By the 1980s, he often wondered aloud why Mengele had allowed him to live. “What did he see in me?” he asked Mitchell. “Why did this man save my life?”

He had made a copy of the diary, and his basement office became a shrine to Renia. Her photograph hung on his wall. He would lay out photocopied pages of her diary on brown leather medical examination tables and spend hours poring over them. “He was apparently falling in love with this diary,” his son recalls. “He would tell me about Renia. She was this spiritual presence.”

Zygmunt Schwarzer’s wife, Jean Schwarzer, had little interest in her husband’s heartache—she reacted to the long-dead girl like a living rival. “My mother would say, ‘Ach, he’s with the diary downstairs,’” said Mitchell. “She wasn’t interested in all of what she would call his ‘meshugas,’ his crazy crap.”

But Tuchman, Schwarzer’s childhood friend, understood the need to reconnect with the past later in life. “We were clamoring for some attachment and the desire to see a common thread,” he explained recently. Survivors often sought out artifacts as a kind of anchor, he said, to feel that “we were not just floating in the atmosphere.”

Zygmunt’s son Mitchell took up the mantle of investigating that lost world. He traveled to his parents’ hometowns in Poland and the camps and hiding places where they survived the war, and spoke publicly about their stories. He became a professor of architectural history, publishing “Building After Auschwitz” and other articles about the Holocaust and architecture.

Zygmunt Schwarzer died from a stroke in 1992. Before his death, he had made a last contribution to Renia’s diary. On April 23, 1989, while visiting Elizabeth, he wrote one of two additional entries. “I’m with Renusia’s sister,” he wrote. “This blood link is all I have left. It’s been 41 years since I have lost Renusia.... Thanks to Renia I fell in love for the first time in my life, deeply and sincerely. And I was loved back by her in an extraordinary, unearthly, incredibly passionate way.”

* * *

After Maria died in 1969, Elizabeth retrieved her sister’s journal and stashed it away, eventually in a safe deposit box at the Chase bank downstairs from her airy apartment near Union Square in Manhattan. It was both her dearest possession and unopenable, like the closely guarded secret of her Jewishness. Her French uncle had always told her: “Forget the past.”

One day, when her youngest child, Alexandra, was about 12 years old, she said something casually derogatory toward Jews. Elizabeth decided it was time Alexandra and her brother, Andrew, knew the truth.

“I told them I was born Jewish,” Elizabeth said.

By the time Alexandra grew up, she wanted to know more about the diary. “I had to know what it said,” said Alexandra. In 2012, she scanned the pages and emailed them, 20 at a time, to a student in Poland for translation. When they came back, she was finally able to read her dead aunt’s words. “It was heart-wrenching,” she said.

In early 2014, Alexandra and Elizabeth went to the Polish consulate in New York to see a documentary about a Polish Jewish animator who had survived the Holocaust. Elizabeth asked the filmmaker, Tomasz Magierski, if he wanted to read her sister’s wartime diary.

Out of politeness, Magierski said yes. “Then I read this book—and I could not stop reading it,” he said. “I read it over three or four nights. It was so powerful.”

Magierski was born 15 years after the war’s end, in southern Poland, in a town, like most every other Polish town, that had been emptied of Jews. Poland had been the country where most of Europe’s Jews lived, and it was also the site of all the major Nazi death camps. At school, Magierski had learned about the Holocaust, but no one seemed to talk about the missing people, whether because of grief or culpability, official suppression or a reluctance to dredge up the miserable past. It seemed wrong to Magierski that not only the people were gone, but so were their stories.

“I fell in love with Renia,” he says, in his gentle voice, explaining why he decided to make a film about her. “There are hundreds of thousands of young people and children who disappeared and were killed and their stories will never be told.” This one felt like his responsibility: “I have to bring this thing to life.” He began visiting town archives, old cemeteries, newspaper records and the people of Przemysl, turning up information even Elizabeth had not known or remembered.

He also created a poetry competition in Renia’s name and wrote a play based on Renia’s diary. Actors from Przemysl performed it in Przemysl and Warsaw in 2016. The lead actress, 18-year-old Ola Bernatek, had never before heard stories of the Jews of her town. Now, she said, “I see her house every day when I go to school.”

For Renia’s family, though, the goal was publishing her journal. The book was published in Polish in 2016. It was not widely reviewed in Poland—where the topic of Jewish Holocaust experience is still a kind of taboo—but readers acknowledged its power and rarity. “She was clearly a talented writer,” Eva Hoffman, a London-based Polish Jewish writer and academic, said of Renia. “Like Anne Frank, she had a gift for transposing herself onto the page and for bringing great emotional intensity as well as wit to her writing.”

The night her diary was printed, Magierski stayed in the print shop the whole night, watching. “There was a moment where I became cold,” he said. “She’s going to exist. She’s back.”

* * *

Reading the diary made Elizabeth “sick,” she says, spitting out the word. An elegant 87-year-old-woman with startlingly pale blue eyes, sparkling green eyeshadow, carefully coiffed hair and a white lace blouse, she says she could only stand to take in a few pages of the diary at a time. Then she would feel her heart racing, her stomach churning, her body experiencing her sister’s—and her own—long-ago terror.

Yet she brought the diary along on the summer trip she has taken most every year for the past four decades to see her French relatives—people who called her not by her birth name but by her assumed Christian name, people with whom she never discussed the war, or their shared Jewishness. She showed the diary to them. They asked questions, and for the first time, she answered them.

Editor’s note, October 30, 2018: This story has been updated to correct a few small details about Renia Spiegel’s family’s life.

====== 195 ========

WHY JOHN LEGUIZAMO IS SO INVESTED IN TELLING THE COUNTRY ABOUT LATINO HISTORY

Forgive John Leguizamo if he checks his cellphone while dining with you. It’s not the usual celebrity self-importance thing. It’s that he has so much history crammed into his head that he can’t always recall every factoid he’s after. He might have to do a quick internet search to pin down the name of, for instance, Josefa Segovia, a Mexican who in 1851 became the first woman lynched in California, after killing a man who tried to attack her.

Leguizamo’s brain wasn’t always so overcrowded with the triumphs and tragedies of his forebears. For most of his life, he admits, he didn’t know all that much about his heritage. But then he put together Latin History for Morons, a solo performance piece with all his usual outlandish humor but also crammed with enough real history to make a good start on a textbook.

In the show, which opened at the Public Theater in New York before a five-month run on Broadway, he conducts a saucy tour of 3,000 years of Latin American history, introducing individuals and cultural contributions that probably didn’t come up in whatever history classes you took. Latin History for Morons won a Special Tony (an accolade not voted on but bestowed directly by a Tony Awards Committee) for Leguizamo’s solo performance (the show also was nominated for best play). On November 5, Netflix will premiere a version of Latin History that was filmed at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark.

From the very start, the response to his material was passionate engagement. “A lot of audience members came up to me and said, ‘What three books can I read? Where can I find this information?’” he recalled over breakfast at a restaurant near his home in Manhattan’s West Village. “Lots of people were curious. Even 13-year-old kids were going, ‘Why isn’t this taught in the school?’ What 13-year-old kid do you know wants to be forced to read more?”

Leguizamo, who is 54 and was born in Bogotá, Colombia, and grew up in Queens, exploded onto the American entertainment scene with Spic-O-Rama and Freak and other brash solo shows that drew on his experiences as a Latino. His fledgling TV and film career began to take off (130 roles so far), and now he is fully in the mainstream. His work in the miniseries “Waco” earned him an Emmy nomination this year.

Leguizamo got the idea for Latin History about six years ago, when his son, Lucas, then in middle school, was being bullied by classmates because he was Latino. Hoping to make Lucas proud of his heritage, Leguizamo found out that his knowledge of Latino history was incomplete. He even mixed up the name of the South American tribe he is descended from, the Muisca, with the language of that tribe, Chibcha—a mistake his son’s teacher caught when the boy repeated it.

“I had to win his trust back,” Leguizamo said. “So I started doing a lot of research to be accurate for my son.” That quest became an obsession. “Considering all the things that I found out that were not in any history textbooks, in any Ken Burns Civil War documentary, in any Band of Brothers by Spielberg, in any Discovery Channel show—the huge numbers, and the participation, and the blood we shed in the making of this country—it’s wild to me,” he said with a combination of perplexity and anger.

But turning his obsession—“I love the history!”—into a show was a trial. The show combines the personal story of his efforts to help his son with a ribald romp through the Latino past. Complete with costumes. (You should see him as Frida Kahlo.) Workshopping the piece at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre in California, he kept hearing the same thing: less history, more of the father-son tale.

“Everybody said, ‘What we love is the personal side,’” he said. “I go, ‘Nooooo. I really don’t want to go into that, because it’s my son’s life, and I don’t really want to put that out there.’”

By now, though, he was on a mission, and thus willing to brave a more personal approach. “With all the things happening to Latin children in this country—high school dropout rate!—I know it’s a lack of history and representation in schools that makes us vulnerable. It’s a damaging dynamic and I experienced it. So I was hoping that my show was going to be an antidote. The Incas had the largest empire of the time, bigger than the Ming dynasty, czarist Russia or any European country.”

Leguizamo’s efforts to reach a vastly wider audience takes a leap forward with the Netflix premiere, and a PBS documentary is in the works on the making of the show.

He feels strongly that teaching Latin history is the first step toward conquering prejudice, and he dreams of using his research to create a history textbook. And many of the historical figures he encountered—war heroes, activists, victims of injustice—lived lives that seem made for Hollywood. “I’d like to make those movies,” he said. “Even if I’m not in them.”

====== 196 ========

THREE CENTURIES AFTER HIS BEHEADING, A KINDER, GENTLER BLACKBEARD EMERGES

Since his head was separated from his body 300 years ago this month, Edward Teach (or Thache), also known as Blackbeard the pirate, has served as the archetype of the bloodthirsty rogues who once roamed Caribbean and Atlantic coastal waters.

Only in the past few years have genealogists, historians and archaeologists, thanks to a combination of hard work and good luck, unearthed surprising clues that reveal the man behind the legend, one that Blackbeard himself helped spawn. In his day, merchants whispered his name in fright. Reports circulated of a large man with “fierce and wild” eyes who kept a brace of three pistols on a holster across his chest and a tall fur cap on his head. Lighted matches made his luxurious beard smoke “like a frightful meteor.”

This pirate, according to a British account written a half-dozen years after his death, “frightened America more than any comet that has appeared there [for] a long time.” But Blackbeard vanished abruptly when a British naval expedition personally funded by Virginia Governor Alexander Spotswood ambushed him and most of his men in a bloody battle off Ocracoke Island on November 22, 1718. Blackbeard’s head was stuck on a piling off Hampton, Virginia, as a warning to other lawbreakers.

The fearsome buccaneer never scared Hollywood producers, however. Blackbeard gained new notoriety in the mid-20th century, when the 1952 movie Blackbeard the Pirate proved popular. A half-dozen films centered on his exploits followed, and he emerged as the quintessential cinematic pirate. In 2006, he garnered his own miniseries detailing his search for Captain Kidd’s treasure. He even had an encounter with Jack Sparrow in the 2011 Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides. These representations further embellished a legend that long ago overwhelmed historical truth. “The real story of Blackbeard has gone untold for centuries,” says Baylus Brooks, a Florida-based maritime historian and genealogist.

Even the most basic biographical details about Blackbeard have been hotly disputed. No one knows the year of his birth or even its location; some claim Bristol, in western England; others point to Jamaica. Still others insist he was from North Carolina or Philadelphia. His early life was a complete mystery. But few had attempted to trace Blackbeard’s family tree.

**********

On a lazy summer morning in 2014, Brooks wondered if there might be records of any Teaches or Thaches in Jamaica, one of the places the pirate was said to consider home. Then he remembered his subscription to Ancestry.com and began his research there. “I expected nothing, but I got a hit,” he says. It was the baptismal record of Cox Thache, a son of Edward and Lucretia Theach (Thache and Theach were common variants of Teach), in the Jamaican settlement of Spanish Town in 1700. “This was all in about two hours over coffee in my favorite chair,” Brooks recalls.

Brooks knew that an English visitor to Jamaica in 1739 made reference to meeting members of Blackbeard’s family residing in Spanish Town, and his mother was said at that time to be still living. “My life had changed,” said Brooks. Ever since, he has been on the paper trail of the pirate’s family tree. With the help of Jamaican researcher Dianne Golding Frankson, he discovered that Edward Thache—who Brooks believes was Blackbeard’s father—was a captain and a man of status who remarried twice; Lucretia was his last wife.

The real treasure that Brooks found, however, was a yellowed 1706 document on a shelf in the parish archives retrieved by Frankson. Written aboard the 60-gun Royal Navy ship Windsor while it was anchored in the harbor of Jamaica’s Port Royal, the author was Edward Thache’s son, who bore the same name. In this deed, Thache turns his late father’s estate over to his stepmother, Lucretia, for the “love and affection I have for and bear towards my brother and sister Thomas Theache and Rachel Theache”—his half siblings.

If Brooks is right, then Blackbeard joined the Royal Navy and magnanimously turned his father’s estate, which as the oldest son he inherited by law, over to his Jamaican family. Checking the Windsor logbooks, he discovered an Edward Thache who had arrived in England aboard a Barbados merchant ship. On April 12, 1706, the young man joined the crew while the ship was anchored off England’s Isle of Wight near Portsmouth.

In Brooks’ telling, Blackbeard’s family left Bristol while the pirate was still young to seek their fortune on the wealthy island of Jamaica, where sugar was known as white gold. They owned enslaved Africans and appear to have been of high social status. Why the young Edward, likely in his mid-20s, would leave home to join a merchant ship and then the Royal Navy is not clear, but it may have been a natural step to achieve advancement as well as nautical experience.

This historical Blackbeard is far different from the rampaging maniac or Robin Hood figure of myth. Brooks’ Thache is a well-educated man of social grace, literate and capable of using complex navigational equipment. This background would explain why, shortly before his death, he hit it off so well with North Carolina’s governor Charles Eden and other leading members of the colony. The pirate might have even been upset over the demise of the House of Stuart that put George I—a German speaker—on the English throne, perhaps the reason he renamed a stolen French ship the Queen Anne’s Revenge, after the last Stuart monarch.

***********

Other historians have recently noted that despite Blackbeard’s terrible reputation, no evidence exists that he ever killed anyone before his final battle at Ocracoke, near Cape Hatteras, when he was fighting for his life. “He likely cultivated that murderous image,” says Charles Ewen, an archaeologist at East Carolina University. “Scaring people was a better option than to damage what you are trying to steal.”

Brooks admits he cannot definitively prove his Thache is our Blackbeard, but other scholars find Brooks’ case compelling. “It makes sense and it seems credible,” says Ewen. Some are more cautious. “There is some validity,” adds historian Angus Konstam, “but it is not yet tied up.”

What drew Blackbeard to piracy a decade after joining the Royal Navy, however, is not a matter of dispute. In 1715, a fleet of Spanish ships left Havana, Cuba, for Spain filled with treasure, including vast quantities of silver. An early hurricane wrecked the ships on Florida’s Atlantic coast, drowning more than a thousand sailors. English pirates, privateers, and others—particularly Jamaicans—descended on the area to plunder the vessels, sparking what Trent University historian Arne Bialuschewski calls “a gold rush.”

Blackbeard first appears in the records as a pirate at this moment.

His career, like so many of his colleagues, was short-lived; within two years he was dead. “People have this romantic notion of piracy, but it was not a cushy lifestyle,” says Kimberly Kenyon, field director for excavation of the Queen Anne’s Revenge, which went aground outside Beaufort, North Carolina, and was abandoned shortly before Blackbeard’s death.

Kenyon’s team has hauled more than 400,000 artifacts to the surface, from two-dozen massive cannons to a fragment of a page from a 1712 travel book—Blackbeard was known to plunder books as well as commodities. The pirate may have had a fondness for good food too, since records show that he kept the ship’s French cook. The archaeological team has also found remains of wild boar, deer, and turkey, a sign that the crew hunted fresh meat. And the team has only excavated half of the wreck—the world’s only pirate wreck to be scientifically studied.

But if Blackbeard was loath to use violent means, he certainly was ready to do so. The ship was heavily armed with 250,000 bits of lead shot, 400 cannonballs, dozens of grenades, and many muskets, as well as a total of 40 English and Swedish cannon. Disease likely posed a greater threat than the Royal Navy, however, as evidenced by the urethral syringe found by archaeologists still bearing traces of mercury, a popular treatment at the time for syphilis.

The recent archaeological finds coupled with Brooks’ research may make Blackbeard “even more enigmatic,” says Kenyon. He is no longer the cardboard villain of the past, but his personality and motives are still unclear. “He continues to be so elusive. There are so many facets to this person. That’s what makes him fascinating.

Editor's note, November 20, 2018: This story has been corrected to indicate that Blackbeard joined his crew near Portsmouth, not Plymouth.

====== 197 ========

WORLD’S OLDEST-KNOWN FIGURATIVE PAINTINGS DISCOVERED IN BORNEO CAVE

Hidden in a remote cave buried in the inaccessible rainforests of Indonesian Borneo, a series of rock art paintings are helping archaeologists and anthropologists to rewrite the history of artistic expression. There, scientists have found, enterprising painters may have been among the very first humans to decorate stone walls with images of the ancient world they inhabited.

The oldest painting in Lubang Jeriji Saléh cave on Borneo, the third-largest island in the world, is a large wild cattle-like beast whose relatives may still roam the local forests. The figure has been dated at 40,000 years old and perhaps older, possibly created about 51,800 years in the past.

These estimates, recently calculated using radiometric dating, may make the painting the oldest-known example of figurative cave art—images that depict objects from the real world as opposed to abstract designs. The figures also provide more evidence that an artistic flowering occurred among our ancestors, simultaneously, on opposite ends of the vast Eurasian continent.

Hundreds of ancient images, from abstract designs and hand stencils to animals and human figures, have been documented in Indonesian Borneo’s remote caves since scientists became aware of them in the mid-1990s. But like other signs of ancient human habitation in this part of the world, they are infrequently seen or studied. Borneo’s Sangkulirang–Mangkalihat Peninsula is a land of soaring limestone towers and cliffs, riddled with caves below and blanketed with thick tropical forests above that make travel arduous and have hidden local secrets for thousands of years.

Maxime Aubert, an archaeologist and geochemist at Griffith University, Gold Coast, Australia, says the effort to study the cave paintings was well worth it, not least because of the unique connection one feels here to the distant past.

“When we do archaeological digs, we’re lucky if we can find some pieces of bone or stone tools, and usually you find what people have chucked out,” says Aubert, lead author of a new study detailing the Borneo paintings. “When you look at the rock art, it’s really an intimate thing. It’s a window into the past, and you can see their lives that they depicted. It’s really like they are talking to us from 40,000 years ago.”

The dating of this ancient southeast Asian cave art pens a new chapter in the evolving story of where and when our ancestors started painting their impressions of the outside world. A painted rhino in France’s Chauvet Cave had until recently been the oldest-known example of figurative cave art, dated to roughly 35,000 to 39,000 years old. Chauvet and a few other sites led scientists to believe that the birth of such advanced painting had occurred in Europe. But in 2014, Aubert and colleagues announced that cave art depicting stenciled handprints and a large pig-like animal from the same time period had been found on the other side of the world on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi.

“The 2014 paper on Sulawesi made a very big splash, as it showed that cave art was practiced both in Europe and in southeast Asia at about the same time,” Paleolithic archaeologist Wil Roebroeks says in an email. Roebroeks, of Leiden University in the Netherlands, added that Aubert’s team’s research, “killed Eurocentric views on early rock art.”

The Borneo find compliments this earlier work and expands an increasingly broad and intriguing worldview of ancient art—one with as many new questions as answers.

Aubert and colleagues were able to determine when Borneo’s ancient artists plied their trade by dating calcite crusts, known as “cave popcorn,” that seeping water slowly created over the top of the art. The team dated these deposits by measuring the amount of uranium and thorium in the samples. Because uranium decays into thorium at a known rate, uranium series analysis can be used to calculate a sample’s age. And because the paintings lie underneath these crusts, the researchers conclude they must be older than the calcite deposits. Indonesia’s National Research Centre for Archaeology (ARKENAS) and the Bandung Institute of Technology (ITB) also contributed to the study published today in Nature.

Even though the uranium dating suggests these figures are the oldest-known example of such art in the world, Aubert is even more interested in the striking similarities between the Borneo cave art styles and those found across Europe. In fact, two styles of painting found in Indonesia’s Lubang Jeriji Saléh cave—which were superimposed over one another by peoples who frequented the same cave perhaps 20,000 years apart—also appear at roughly the same times more than 7,000 miles away in Western Europe.

The first style, which began between 52,000 and 40,000 years ago, uses red and orange hues and includes hand stencils and paintings of large animals that lived in the surrounding area. A second distinct style appeared around 20,000 years ago. It uses purple or mulberry colors, and its hand stencils, sometimes linked together by branch-like lines, feature internal decorations.

By 13,600 years ago, the Borneo cave art had undergone another significant evolution—it began depicting the human world. “We see small human figures. They are wearing head dresses, sometimes dancing or hunting, and it’s just amazing,” Aubert says.

“It’s more about a pattern that we can see now. We have really old paintings in Europe and southeast Asia, and not only did they appear at the same time on opposite sides of the world, but it seems that they are evolving at the same time on opposite sides of the world,” Aubert says. “The second distinct style appeared around the time of the last glacial maximum, so it could even be related to the climate. We just don’t know.”

Rock art painters might have developed simultaneously in more than one place, Roebroeks suggests. Alternatively, as he wrote in a 2014 Nature essay, rock art may have been “an integral part of the cultural repertoire of colonizing modern humans, from western Europe to southeast Asia and beyond.”

“We can only speculate about the more or less contemporaneous ‘emergence’ of rock art in western Eurasia and on the other extreme of the distribution of modern humans, Insular South East Asia,” Roebroeks says.

The idea that rock art was an “integral part” of modern human culture from the beginning seems most likely to Durham University archaeologist Paul Pettitt, who says a wide range of evidence supports the interpretation that non-figurative art had evolved in Africa by 75,000 years ago or earlier.

“This could have originated as a way to decorate the body with specific meanings,” he says in an email, “and included shell jewelry known from the north and south of the continent as early as 100,000 years ago.” The artistic expressions “had developed to include the use of red ochre and engraved signs on ochre lumps and stone by 75,000 [years ago] and decoration on ostrich eggshell water containers by 65,000. If we assume this repertoire left Africa with some of the earliest dispersals of Homo sapiens, perhaps on their bodies, it might explain the persistence of a form of art which, by at least 40,000 years ago had come to be extended off of the body, and things closely associated with it, to cave and rock shelter walls,” he says.

But even if we could understand the entire story of early human art, we might still be missing an even bigger picture.

A 2018 study describes Spanish rock art so old that it would have been created more than 20,000 years before modern humans arrived in the region—meaning the artists must have been Neanderthals. Though the dots, lines and hand stencils aren’t the same type of figurative art found in Borneo or Chauvet, the images suggest that artistic expression was part of the Neanderthal toolkit at least 64,000 years ago.

Roebroeks cautions that scientists should hesitate to infer that certain times or places are key to the emergence of a particular cultural behavior, simply because evidence for them is lacking in other eras or locales. As evidenced by the surprisingly old dates recently assigned to the Neanderthal rock art, or the emergence of Pleistocene rock art outside of Europe in Indonesia, these assumptions are often based on the absence of comparable phenomena in neighboring locales or time periods.

Just because we haven’t found them, however, doesn’t mean that they don’t exist. “One of the lessons we can learn from the studies by Aubert and colleagues on rock art from Sulawesi and now Borneo is that such ways of reasoning can be severely flawed.”

Prehistoric art may have been created in the distant past, but the future is likely to bring surprising discoveries that further transform our view of human artistic expression tens of thousands of years after the paint has dried.

====== 198 ========

THE ARCHAEOLOGIST WHO HELPED MEXICO FIND GLORY IN ITS INDIGENOUS PAST

Historically, 19th century archaeology has centered on heroic histories of white men’s conquest and exploration of foreign lands. Mexican-American archaeologist Zelia Nuttall was neither a man, nor an explorer in the traditional sense. Perhaps her unique perspective helps account for her unconventional approach: For over 30 years, Nuttall investigated Mexico’s past to give recognition and pride to its present—a project Western archaeology had largely ignored in favor of bloody, salacious narratives of Mesoamerican savages.

In 1897, Nuttall challenged the popular belief that ancient Mexicans were “bloodthirsty savages, having nothing in common with civilized humanity,” as she put it in an article for The Journal of American Folklore. This dangerous representation, she wrote, had “such a hold upon the imagination that it effaces all other knowledge about the ancient civilization of Mexico.” She hoped her work would disrupt this narrative and “lead to a growing recognition of the bonds of universal brotherhood which unite the present inhabitants of this great and ancient continent to their not unworthy predecessors.”

Born in San Francisco on September 6, 1857, Nuttall was the second of six children. Her Mexican-born mother, the daughter of a wealthy San Franciscan banker, and Irish physician father gave Nuttall and her siblings a privileged upbringing. When she was a child, her father moved his family to Europe in an attempt to improve his poor health, and they spent time living in England, France, Germany and Switzerland. Nuttall became fluent in Spanish and German, receiving ample education mainly through private tutors.

The family returned to San Francisco in 1876, where in 1880, Nuttall met and married French explorer and anthropologist Alphonse Louis Pinart. In the first years of their marriage, Nuttall and Pinart traveled widely through Europe and the West Indies for Pinart’s work. By the time the couple returned to San Francisco in 1882, Nuttall was pregnant with their daughter Nadine and the marriage had unfortunately become an unhappy one. She legally separated from Pinart in 1884 and formally divorced in 1888, maintaining custody of Nadine and winning back her maiden name of Nuttall.

Despite the unhappiness of her marriage, Nuttall found her love for archaeology during her travels with Pinart. After their separation, Nuttall took her first trip to Mexico in 1884, along with her daughter, mother, sister and younger brother. That winter, she undertook her first serious archaeological study.

When she entered archaeology in the late 19th century, the field was overwhelmingly male and not yet formalized. Within decades, prominent archaeologists like Franz Boaz were making concerted efforts to professionalize the field. Pioneering women archaeologists, including Nuttall, Egyptologist Sara Yorke Stevenson and anthropologist of the Omaha people Alice Fletcher, often hadn’t received a formal scientific education at universities—an option overwhelmingly barred to them in the 19th century. These women found themselves considered “amateurs” by default. Despite this, they excavated sites and published their findings with equal skill as their male colleagues.

Archaeology at the time was also strongly linked to European and North American colonial expansion. As dominant nations competed to stack up colonies, explorers similarly vied to bring glory to their countries by bringing back artifacts from colonized nations and the excavations of indigenous sites. Yet Mexico also participated in this international competition, despite being itself often the site of foreign intervention and excavation. Historian of archaeology Apen Ruiz argues that this focus was integral to Mexican identity and power on the world stage.

Mexican politicians and intellectuals believed that the country’s history of indigenous empires gave Mexico a uniqueness that other competing nations didn’t have. But at the same time, they “did not want to acknowledge the relationship between the indigenous present and the glorious past,” Ruiz writes. Any connections between the supposedly “savage” indigenous people of the past, they feared, could make Mexico appear backward in an increasingly modern world. When Nuttall arrived on the scene, this debate—whether present-day Mexicans were direct descendants of the country’s former Aztec empire—was at the heart of Mexican archaeology.

While visiting the historical site of Teotihuacan in 1884, located northeast of Mexico City, Nuttall collected a series of small terracotta heads. These artifacts had been studied before, but had yet to be accurately dated and understood. In a comparative study of her collection and others, Nuttall concluded that the heads were likely created by the Aztecs near the time of the Spanish Conquest, and had once been attached to bodies made from degradable materials. She concluded that the figures were portraits of individuals representing the dead, were arranged into three classes, and were not all made in the same location.

Nuttall published her results in her paper “The Terracotta Heads of Teotihuacan” in The American Journal of Archaeology and the History of the Fine Arts in 1886. The study was original, thorough, and demonstrated an authoritative knowledge of Mexico’s history—as evidenced by the glowing responses of the archaeological community. That same year, Frederic W. Putnam, a leading American anthropologist, made Nuttall an honorary special assistant in Mexican archaeology at Harvard’s Peabody Museum—a position she accepted and maintained until she died.

In his 1886 annual report for the Museum, Putnam praised Nuttall as “familiar with the Nahuatl language, having intimate and influential friends among the Mexicans, and with an exceptional talent for linguistics and archaeology.” He went on: “As well as being thoroughly informed in all the early native and Spanish writings relating to Mexico and its people, Mrs. Nuttall enters the study with a preparation as remarkable as it is exceptional.”

Putnam asked Nuttall to head the museum’s Central American collection, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. However, intending to take her research abroad, she declined. Nuttall and her brother George then moved to Dresden, Germany, where they lived for 13 years. During this time she traveled around Europe, visiting different libraries and collections, and to California, where she met Phoebe Hearst, member of the wealthy Hearst family and benefactor of University of California’s Museum of Archaeology. Hearst became a patron for Nuttall, providing financial assistance for her travels and research.

Without formal attachment to an institution, Nuttall had significant freedom to pursue work she deemed important, wherever it happened to be. In this way, Nuttall’s amateur status worked to her advantage, granting her an independence other professional archaeologists did not have.

After 13 years of study and travel, Nuttall published a flurry of works. In 1901, at age 44, she published her largest academic work, The Fundamental Principles of New and Old World Civilizations. One of her most lasting contributions was recovering ancient Mexican texts that Europeans had taken from Mexico and let fall into obscurity. One was the Codex Nuttall, a facsimile of an ancient Mexican manuscript of pictographs that had ended up in the hands of a British baron, Zouche of Harynworth. Nuttall learned about its existence from a historian in Florence, tracked it down and published it with a thorough introduction detailing its historical context and translating its meaning.

As Nuttall’s love for archaeology blossomed, so did her love for Mexico. In 1905, she decided to make Mexico her permanent home. With Hearst’s financial backing, she purchased a 16th century mansion in Mexico City known as Casa Alvarado, where she lived with her daughter. This, too, made Nuttall different from other foreign archaeologists, who tended to conduct research abroad but ultimately return to their home countries and institutions.

Not all of Nuttall’s theories turned out to be correct. In her 1901 text, she postulated that Mexican civilization had developed in parallel with those in Egypt and the Middle East. Long before Columbus, she argued, seafaring Phoenicians sailed to the Americas and interacted with the indigenous peoples of Mexico, influencing their cultural traits and symbols. Archaeologists have since largely rejected this idea.

Yet Nuttall is primarily remembered for effectively using archaeology as way to engage in the nationalist politics of the turn of the century. In the debate as to whether or not modern Mexicans were related to the native Aztecs, she claimed that “the Aztec race is represented by thousands of individuals, endowed with fine physiques and intelligence, who speak, with more or less purity, the language of Montezuma.” The portrayal of ancient Mexicans as uncivilized, she argued, kept modern Mexicans from claiming their indigenous heritage.

“She opened a reading of the Aztecs and ancient Hispanic peoples of Mexico to see them on the same level, through the same lens, that they saw other great civilizations of the world,” Ruiz tells Smithsonian.com. “It was not so much about amazing discoveries, it was about changing the discussion.”

Unlike other explorers, Ruiz adds, Nuttall “was in dialogue with and talking to the people who were doing archaeology in Mexico, and was invested in conversations about what was important to Mexicans.”

Near the end of her life, Nuttall advocated for the revival of Mexican traditions that had been eradicated by Spanish conquest. In 1928, she called for a renewed national celebration of the indigenous New Year, which was traditionally observed twice annually by numerous Mesoamerican cultures when the sun reached its zenith and cast no shadows. That year, Mexico City celebrated the Aztec New Year for the first time since 1519.

In a personal letter to friend Marian Storm, Nuttall expressed her pure joy at the event: “It is strange to have archaeology produce such lively offspring! You can imagine how happy it has made me to have extracted from the grave of the past a germ so vital and lively that it will set children dancing and singing and observing the sun every year.” For Nuttall, archaeology wasn’t just exploring a foreign culture—it was also about deepening and awakening her own.

====== 199 ========

MALCOLM X'S EXPLOSIVE COMMENTS ABOUT ELIJAH MUHAMMED

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 200 ========

AN UP-CLOSE LOOK AT THE ROYAL REGALIA

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 201 ========

THIS MAJOR MILITARY OPERATION IGNITED THE VIETNAM WAR

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

====== 202 ========

THIS NEW NEEDLE SIMULATOR COULD TRAIN MEDICAL STUDENTS TO HAVE A STEADY HAND

Imagine you have two balloons. One is filled with water, and the other with air. They appear the same, but if you push on them, each will feel very different. That’s how organs feel to a doctor. When a patient needs a needle biopsy, or a gall bladder drain, or a cortisone injection to the spine, or a venous catheter, the doctor inserting a needle must be able to feel the build up and release of pressure as that needle pushes into, and eventually punctures each successive tissue.

“The character of the tissue gives you force feedback, and your brain figures that out, and can use that to interpret lots of different things,” says David Han, professor of surgery and radiology at Penn State. “If you’ve touched a lot of livers and you’ve touched a lot of spleens, sometimes with your eyes closed you can tell which is which.”

But it’s really not easy. Research over the last 30 or more years has shown complication rates that range from 5 to 21 percent in central vein catheterization, and the fallout is infection or increased hospital time and cost, or even death. Experienced doctors are much better at it, partly because it takes a lot of practice. (In many cases, ultrasound guidance helps, but even with a visual cue it’s easy to go just a bit too far, and into the wrong tissue.)

How do med students learn this technique? In some cases, a mannequin built to resemble particular tissues provides feedback, but more often the students watch an experienced doctor, and then they try it. “I’m really good at it,” says Han. “So I have somebody standing next to me who wants to learn how to do it, and I sort of lean over their shoulder and say, try this, or that.”

A team of researchers at Penn State University had a different idea. Led by Han, in 2017, they published research describing a robot that would hold the end of a needle and provide mechanical feedback — as the student pushes the needle into a lump of silicon, the robot arm pushes back. Unlike a mannequin, it can be programmed to follow different force curves, made to match the pressure profile of a needle sliding into different tissues, and even representing different body types. “What you want to be able to do is to have people prove their competency in a simulated environment before you hand them the controls,” says Han.

But some of the other researchers Han was working with had a further insight: They could make a tool that would do the same thing, sans robot, for far cheaper. Instead of a robot arm, the force feedback would be provided by a mechanism housed within a simulated syringe. The researchers filed a provisional patent application this year and received a grant from the Penn State College of Engineering to develop the device as a business.

“We could create those forces a bit more simplistically by having this, essentially, material fracturing inside these cartridges create our haptic force,” says Jason Moore, an associate professor of mechanical engineering who led the team. “And then we could still provide the user with a lot of feedback about how they performed the needle insertion.”

Though the provisional patent application describes several means of simulating pressure (including electromagnetic, magnets, friction, hydraulics, and others), the group has chosen to focus on a version actuated by a series of membranes housed within the body of the syringe. Upon pushing against a surface, the needle retracts into the body of the syringe. As it does, it abuts the membranes in sequence. Each one deforms and eventually breaks, just like human tissue. By varying the configuration, thickness and material of the membranes, the device simulates different force profiles without the need for an expensive robot arm.

Han, Moore and Moore’s collaborators, associate professor of engineering design Scarlett Miller and associate professor of anesthesiology Sanjib Adhikary, aren’t the only ones working on devices for training students in ultrasound-guided injections. “Everybody’s trying to come up with different ways and means to make it look better, or make it more user friendly,” says Adhikary. “But no one has got the Holy Grail.”

In 2015, a company called Blue Phantom released a sophisticated training model for knee joint injections, complete with simulated femur, tibia, patella and bursa — but it costs $3,800, and is only useful for practicing injections into the knee. There are even DIY solutions featuring gelatin-filled balloons, with rubber tube vessels. David Gaba, a professor of anesthesiology at Stanford, has been building needle injection simulators for more than 30 years, including plastic trainers for lumbar injections. He even uses pork shoulder tissue as a substitute for human.

“Just because something can be simulated by a computer/hardware combo to portray the haptics doesn’t necessarily mean that it will achieve miracles of learning or skill,” says Gaba. “Unless there is clear-cut evidence that a particular device makes a big difference, ultimately it will be the marketplace that determines whether any particular engineering advance has legs as compared to other approaches.”

There still must be a balance, points out Han. Remove too much of the realism and students won’t properly connect the practice tool to the reality. But any computerized apparatus can provide valuable and quantitative feedback — a report card of sorts — into the performance of the students learning the technique.

As they work toward a marketable device, Moore, Miller and Adhikary are building an accelerometer into the cartridge, which will pair with custom software to give similar feedback on insertion angle and force profile. Their prototype, including sensor and replaceable cartridge, cost them around $100.

“The idea is worth pursuing, especially if it can be sold at $100,” says Paul Bigeleisen, a professor of anesthesiology at the University of Maryland. But injection molding and wide distribution, possibly through schools and training hospitals, could drive the cost per unit even lower.

“If we can make these new medical students or very early future doctors be very good at their hand motions, be very steady, could that have a positive impact on their skill much farther down the road?” says Moore.

That’s the hope, he adds.

====== 203 ========

THIS GOLDEN CANOPY COULD POWER 500 HOMES

In the rendering, the structure looks like an enormous golden wave, spilling from the Upper Esplanade of Melbourne’s St Kilda Beach, crossing a busy road and crashing onto the sand. In reality, it would be a canopy of nearly 9,000 flexible photovoltaic panels designed to connect a shopping and entertainment district with the beach while generating renewable energy.

Related Content These Wild Sculptures Actually Generate Green Energy

Called “Light Up,” the proposal is the winner of a contest sponsored by the Land Art Generator Initiative (LAGI), an organization whose goal is to “accelerate the transition to post-carbon economies by providing models of renewable energy infrastructure that add value to public space, inspire, and educate.” They’ve been hosting biannual competitions for green energy-generating public art since 2010. Each contest has been centered on a different location—a Copenhagen shipyard, a Dubai desert road, a Santa Monica waterfront—that presents an urban design challenge.

The challenge for the Melbourne competition involved creating a sense of cohesion for the “St Kilda Triangle,” an area bounded by a hilltop market area, busy Jacka Boulevard and an entertainment district containing a historic theater and the city’s iconic Luna Park amusement park, all adjacent to the popular beach. The area, which is pedestrian-unfriendly, harshly sunny and blighted with an ugly sprawling parking lot, has been a topic of redevelopment debate for years.

"Light Up," a collaboration between Australian design studio NH Architecture, Ark Resources, John Bahoric Design and RMIT Architecture students, is designed to bring a sense of flow to the Triangle, and to create a pleasant bridge across Jacka Boulevard to the beach.

“The street is such a big divider between the beach and the Triangle site, and we thought, ‘what if we actually use that street and turn it into a positive?’” says Martin Heide of NH Architecture, who led the project.

The proposal would have the solar panel canopy cover a large stretch of street, creating shade below and a bridge to the beach above. In addition to the solar panels, the proposal includes wind power generated by the swaying bridge and microbial fuel cells. Combined, it could produce enough energy to power 500 Australian homes in addition to the site’s theater and amusement park. Lithium-ion cells from used electric car batteries embedded in the handrails of the bridge can store excess energy generated by the panels. This extra energy can then be fed back into the grid. The plan includes designs for a hotel and cultural center as well, with the intention of making the area a new urban landmark.

“It’s an experience, and people need to enjoy the park, enjoy the beach, feel like they’re immersed in something beautiful,” Heide says.

"The experience of traversing the park will be like walking through a flowing stream of solar energy," LAGI co-founders Elizabeth Monoian and Robert Ferry wrote in a statement.

"Light Up" was one of 25 ideas shortlisted for the LAGI prize and received $16,000 in prize money. A $5,000 second-place prize went to Seattle design firm Olson Kundig, for a hydro-solar generator promenade called “Night & Day.” The project involved a pedestrian bridge and recreation area, with an enormous photovoltaic solar sail that would power homes while also pumping ocean water into a hydro battery vessel. After dark, water would be released from the vessel, its kinetic energy transforming into electricity.

“'Light Up' and 'Night & Day' are power plants where you can take your family for a picnic,” wrote Monoian and Ferry. “They both show how beauty and clean energy can come together to create the sustainable and resilient infrastructure of the future city. These artworks are cultural landmarks for the great energy transition that will be visited by generations in the future to remember this important time in human history.”

The win does not mean the project will be built on the Triangle, though LAGI founders and the "Light Up" creators hope planners and the community will consider the design when discussing plans for the site.

If planners should choose to implement the design, Heide says there are no technical barriers to beginning construction.

“We put quite a bit of focus on the buildability of this scheme, so all the products that we used, especially the flexible solar panels are market tested,” he says.

====== 204 ========

STANFORD OVSHINSKY MIGHT BE THE MOST PROLIFIC INVENTOR YOU’VE NEVER HEARD OF

It’s hard to look around in today’s technology-driven world and not see something that exists because of inventor Stanford R. Ovshinsky. When you turn your flat-screen TV on with the click of a remote, when a Prius silently drives past, when you see solar panels powering a home, when you save a photo on your smartphone, you have Ovshinsky, in part, to thank.

Ovshinsky is arguably one of the greatest thinkers and inventors you’ve never heard of. He’s been called his generation’s Thomas Edison and his brilliance compared to that of Albert Einstein. He was ahead of his time.

Born in 1922 in Akron, Ohio, to Jewish parents who emigrated from Eastern Europe, he only completed a high school education and initially pursued a career as a machinist in a factory that made molds for car tires. After leaving to start his own company, Energy Conversion Devices in 1960 in Detroit, Michigan, his inventions drew widespread attention in the scientific community. He befriended Nobel Prize winners, such as I.I. Rabi and Nevill Mott, and made connections in the business world. Before he passed away in 2012 at age 89, the inventor held more than 400 patents.

In a time when gigantic, boxy, cathode ray tube television sets sat in the corners of American living rooms, Ovshinsky envisioned a flattened TV set you could hang on the wall like a picture and went on to invent technology [U.S. Patent No. 3,271,591], in 1966, that turns thin panels of glass into semiconductors that spark pixels in our screens to this day. That same patented technology has since been applied to smartphone microchips that store our data and might usher in a new chapter of information storage. While coal mining reigned supreme, Ovshinsky was pondering ways to harness power from the sun and in 1979 began streamlining the mass production of inexpensive solar panels [U.S. Patent No. 4,519,339]. Then as gas-guzzling roadsters grew more and more popular, Ovshinsky told researchers in one of his labs that the experimental battery they presented him in a beaker would one day power an energy-efficient car. That was in 1982 and his nickel-metal hydride battery [U.S. Patent No. 4,623,597] has powered electric and hybrid vehicles since the early 2000s.

He was a man who saw tomorrow.

That's precisely the title of a new biographical memoir about his life’s work, The Man Who Saw Tomorrow: The Life and Inventions of Stanford R. Ovshinsky, written by Lillian Hoddeson and Peter Garrett.

Smithsonian.com spoke with Hoddeson and Garrett about Ovshinsky’s life, work and worldview.

Lillian, you’ve written about dozens of scientists, physicists and inventors. You have a background in physics yourself. What made Stan an interesting subject for a biography?

Lillian Hoddeson: When my previous book came out, I was teaching at the University of Illinois. The history department chairman, Peter Fritzsche, gave the book to his father who turned out to be, Hellmut Fritzsche, a physicist who worked with Stan for many years. Hellmut contacted me and suggested that my next book be a biography of Stan Ovshinsky. In the fall of 2005, I first visited Stan's company ECD, Energy Conversion Devices, in a suburb of Detroit. I was completely fired up by what I saw, especially the impressive variety of inventive work that was going on there. I was simply blown away by the completely hydrogen-powered Prius that Stan insisted I drive. It was completely silent, used green energy and water vapor was coming out of the exhaust.

I was also impressed by Stan personally and his wife Iris Ovshinsky, and I wanted to learn more about them, even though the work required learning about many topics that I had never worked on before or studied in any depth. I started doing a few interviews with him and about the third time I visited them, in the summer of 2006, I happened to be present at the sudden death of Iris while she was swimming. I kind of became an honorary member of the family, and I decided that I would write the biography.

Ovshinsky’s interests were so wide-ranging, and yet he was high-achieving in everything he did. In what ways did his interests inform one another?

LH: Stan transformed from his early career as a machinist and a toolmaker. The story goes: he got interested in machines and materials in part by being taken along with his father who was a scrap metal collector to many of the machine shops in Akron, a big industrial city. And he decides to become a machinist and a toolmaker when he graduates high school, but being the kind of thinker that he was, he was always motivated to improve the machines he was working with and eventually he realized he wanted to be an inventor.

His first significant invention was this huge heavy lathe—that he named after his father, the Benjamin Lathe. It was an automated lathe that could machine metal much faster than other lathes. He was interested especially in automation. Later, he studied cybernetics, which is an interdisciplinary way to learn through both communication and controls about animals and machines.

Peter Garrett: His different interests definitely informed each other. He would say later in life when he was trying to explain how he came up with new ideas that he was always thinking about four or five different problems at the same time. He had an incredible capacity for multi-tasking. They would feed on each other and eventually he would make a connection; he would see analogies or make connections that other people weren't seeing and come up with something new.

It seems like there’s hardly an area of our modern world that Stan didn’t touch. Can you talk about the scope of his inventions?

PG: It’s certainly easier for me to get a handle on the scope of his work by looking at the interconnectivity of the discoveries. The crucial discovery, which wasn't just an invention but a scientific breakthrough, was when he created what is now called the Ovshinsky effect, a technique that uses increasing voltage currents to turn noncrystalline [or amorphous and disordered] materials—like thin glassy films, for example—from insulators to conductors and back again at the flip of a switch. For instance, our flat panel TV displays depend on those amorphous semiconductors because unlike crystal transistors you can take this material and make it into very large sheets, so that your screen has a whole thin sheet of amorphous material covered with little transistors, each one of which are switching or interacting with liquid crystals and turning pixels on and off.

Before this discovery it was believed that only crystalline materials could do this. That’s what was used to create micro-electronic devices like the transistor. People in the field of solid state physics and in the business of making those devices all believed that you had to use crystals.

What Stan did had not been thought possible. It created quite a stir when he published his results both in The New York Times and Physical Review Letters in November 1968. There were a lot of people who were very upset about it, particularly because he was completely self-educated. He had no scientific training.

The nickel-metal hydride battery, which came when Stan had some of his scientists at ECD working on hydrogen storage, made possible the hydrogen car that Lillian was talking about before.

LH: There's this dramatic moment that we tell about in the book when these researchers first make this nickel-metal hydride battery in a beaker. They bring it to Stan and he calls a meeting of staff to demonstrate it. There's this little beaker battery—this crude experimental demonstration—and he says to the group, ‘Someday that will power an electric car.’

And they didn't believe him but eventually it did.

PG: The reason we call the book The Man Who Saw Tomorrow is because he did look very far ahead in imagining the possible developments and implications of his discoveries, and he made predictions that people thought were completely off the wall.

When he was interviewed for The New York Times story about the discovery of the Ovshinsky effect, the threshold switch, the reporter asked him, ‘What might this be good for?’ And one of the things he said was, ‘Well you could make a TV set that you could hang on your wall like a picture.’

That was in 1968 when people used cathode ray tube TVs, and people in electronics thought it was absolutely ridiculous.

You say that Ovshinsky's discovery of phase-change memory will have the most impact on the world. Can you explain what this technology is and how it stands to affect our future?

LH: Phase-change memory is an offshoot of Ovshinsky’s threshold switch in which either an electrical or laser pulse changes the amorphous chalcogenide material to crystalline; it remains in that state until a stronger pulse changes it back. This bistable feature—meaning its pulse remains stable in more than one state—allows the switch to store information and so act as a nonvolatile electronic or optical memory.

Compared to the currently predominant silicon flash memory, phase-change memory is roughly a hundred times faster, requires less power, and can be cycled many more times. As manufacturers work to increase the speed and storage capacity of flash memory chips by scaling them down, they will eventually reach a limit. Chalcogenide memory does not have that limitation and because of its lower power requirements actually works better as it scales down.

Because computer technology plays such a huge role in our lives, and because Ovshinsky’s phase-change memory will both allow today’s computers to work better and allow designers to create more advanced computer architectures in the future, it seems likely to have an increasing impact.

The late John Ross, who was a pioneering chemist at Stanford, once said, “Stan is a genius, but he’s not a scientist.” He almost had a sense of intuition in a way that he himself describes using words like “feeling” or knowing what these inanimate particles that make up our very being “want.” Can you try to expand on that quality?

PG: In terms of him saying, "I see the atoms and molecules and I know what they want to do," it's because he was brilliant. He read a lot across all sorts of areas, and he read very quickly and retained everything.

People would talk about watching him read and he would just be turning the pages like the way you or I would be skimming it. He would just recall everything out of it, and he could go back to the book years later and find the exact page that he wanted to cite. That kind of store of information was one thing.

Another was because he didn't have the formal training that a physicist would have, he didn't have the mathematical techniques for working out his ideas using calculations. He relied very much on visualizing and so that's where you get that “feeling for atoms.” He used his intelligence, but he turned it into visual images that gave him intuition about what you can accomplish with combining different elements.

LH: Another approach that Stan used, was that he used analogies between phenomena in different areas.

PG: He became interested in neurophysiology for a period, and he actually contributed to the field doing research for a while. But he thought of nerve cells as being like switches, and then he took it a step further. He actually constructed a switch that worked the way he understood nerve cells did and created an entirely new kind of switch. That was an important step toward discovering the Ovshinsky effect.

Although he was not a trained scientist, he hired a lot of very smart scientists to work with him on his research and to help explain his work in ways that would have been hard for him to do.

Tell us a bit about the ways in which Stan—and his second wife, Iris’s—worldview came to impact his inventions?

PG: It's important to include the idea that a lot of his work was motivated by social and political ideals. All of these alternative energy devices—the batteries, solar panels or hydrogen powered car—those were all ways of pursuing a goal that he and Iris identified when they founded their company, which was to try to replace fossil fuels.

This was another way in which he saw tomorrow. He anticipated some of the problems that we are now experiencing, like global warming. Having that kind of idealistic social vision was just as important to him as making the inventions or pursuing his discoveries—and it was very important in how they ran the company.

They wanted to make ECD an embodiment of their social ideals, which meant very generous benefits and also supporting individual development—a lot of educational benefits for the employees, a lot of things that created a feeling of solidarity and commitment to the goals that Stan wanted to pursue.

He wasn’t just a brilliant genius, he was really trying to make life better for people. When he talked about his background as a socialist, it was in a different sense than what a lot of us have of socialism as being a philosophy that the government should provide services or that you should nationalize industries—that didn't interest him at all. He thought of socialism as a way of making life better for people, and he was really dedicated to that and he did succeed in that to some extent.

LH: He didn't really care about the money making except insofar that he needed the money to support the research that he wanted to do.

Let’s talk about some of the pushback he faced in his field. He was highly praised and recognized in his field, but also considered an outsider. How did those competing perceptions affect him?

LH: It hurt him a great deal personally. They didn't want to accept him. Some of them felt a bit envious that they didn't come up with the things that he did.

PG: He wasn’t intentionally an oppositional figure. He wanted to be accepted, he loved science. And many of the most gifted scientists appreciated him. Several Nobel Laureates, who would come to visit just because they wanted to talk to him, recognized what an original creative mind he was.

LH: People like I.I. Rabi.

PG: Rabi who won his Nobel Prize much earlier and was a senior statesman in the scientific establishment, really hit it off with Stan and more than once called him a genius.

But on the other hand, there were people who were suspicious of him, who thought he was a charlatan. They disliked the way that he publicized his work, which for a scientist at the time would have been considered very unprofessional, getting your discovery on the front page of The New York Times.

When he was working on his neurological research at Wayne University in Detroit, he said how wonderful it was that the other scientists working there accepted him and were interested in his research. He said, ‘I thought that's how science was,’ that if you made a contribution, people appreciated you and accepted you. The hostile reaction he got when he announced his discovery of the Ovshinsky switch certainly surprised and caused him dismay.

Lots of people call Stan “this generation’s Einstein or Edison.” What qualities might be used to describe the next Stan Ovshinsky?

PG: We have that tribute from Berkeley economist Harley Shaiken, who was a mentee of Stan’s, at the end of the book saying, “He was the last of his kind,” and in a way he was. He was a product of his early upbringing and that historical moment. The other thing about him that makes this question very hard to answer is that ordinarily there might be obvious qualities that educators should try to encourage, but what Stan shows is you can’t create someone like that. There will be brilliant, unique figures in the future, but their uniqueness makes them unpredictable.

That's why people who have been suggested as comparisons—Steve Jobs or Elon Musk— really aren’t good comparisons.

It would be interesting to me, in the future when some other completely unforeseen, brilliant, creative person comes along, whether other people will say he’s another Ovshinsky.

LH: Stan was kind of a transitional figure.

PG: His career covered the transition from the industrial age to the information age. So if you think about the question of someone like Stan coming up in the future, that might be a clue—someone who is not just working within the framework of our own time—however, we understand that—but is really seeing tomorrow and helping make this transition into a different era, which by definition is something we can't really imagine until it emerges.

====== 205 ========

RESTAURATEUR JOSÉ ANDRÉS DREAMS OF MILKING THE CLOUDS

When more than 25 big thinkers convened at the Smithsonian Arts & Industries Building last December for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues, each one had an optimism to share. One thing that provides hope for the future.

Like a practiced politician, restaurateur José Andrés blatantly ignored his interviewer David Rockwell’s first question to jump right to his big, bright hope.

“Imagine if we could milk the clouds,” Andrés said, at the inaugural event. The second annual “Long Conversation” will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. (Watch it on livestream here.)

The idea came to the philanthropic chef, who most recently led a massive effort to feed Puerto Ricans in the wake of Hurricane Maria, when he was in Haiti in 2010. “After the earthquake in Haiti, I got that need to get on a plane and go there and begin cooking,” Andrés said. He founded World Central Kitchen, a nonprofit dedicated to providing meals after natural disasters, and, among other projects, built a school lunch building and a farm that produced a small percentage of the food for the operation in a mountain town called Palmiste Tambe. Clouds constantly passed over, but ultimately there wasn’t enough water to sustain the farm.

“Every time that we have one of those big clouds, imagine that we could be sending a zeppelin and we can be capturing the cloud as it passes above us and we can be redirecting that water into that zeppelin or bring it down to Earth to the place we want it,” said Andrés. “Wouldn’t it be a very beautiful way to make sure that every place on Earth has the water it needs?”

Listen to Andrés describe this dream and the fog collectors that may one day make it a reality.

====== 206 ========

THIS APARTMENT-SIZE WIND TURBINE MAKES USE OF GUSTS COMING FROM ALL DIRECTIONS

James Dyson and the team at the James Dyson Foundation announced today the winner of the 2018 Dyson Award, selecting a small, omnidirectional wind turbine out of 20 international finalists. Called O-Wind, this soft globe hangs suspended between cables, above and below, and spins around a vertical axis whether the wind is coming from above, below or from the side.

“The complicated shape takes wind and makes it go through tunnels, and creates pressure differences … which makes it spin always the same direction,” says inventor Nicolas Orellana, a recent Lancaster University master’s of science graduate who now works full time on O-Wind.

Orellana developed the first O-Wind prototype not as a generator, but as a wind-driven rover that could travel efficiently across flat deserts. Along with partner Yaseen Noorani, who he knew from Lancaster, Orellana realized the same principle could be used for power generation. Wide vents throughout the ball, facing different directions, siphon wind through smaller vents, kind of like a bunch of parafoils twisted together into a ball. The pressure differences from the wide vents to the small ones make the device rotate around a single axis due to Bernoulli’s principle.

That spin can power an electric generator, connected to the ball by a rod, and Orellana envisions the 25-centimeter orbs strung up on apartment building balconies, taking advantage of chaotic wind patterns to power people’s homes, sell energy back to the grid or tap into feed-in-tariffs like the ones offered in the UK for homeowners who help create green energy.

The two main types of turbines in the world today both rotate only when wind hits them face-on. Traditional, horizontal turbines look like windmills, and can turn to face incoming wind, but not wind coming from above or below. Generators with vertically oriented blades can fit into smaller spaces, but are less efficient and still operate only under wind in the horizontal plane.

“If you put a wind turbine on your balcony, you’re not only going to get horizontal wind,” says Orellana. “In that position, you can also get vertical winds or diagonal winds, and it changes in every situation. With this one … it can work more continuously, and provide much more energy to your house.”

The Dyson Awards are given to students or graduates within four years of a university program, who have built viable, innovative, original tools or devices that solve a particular problem, from small to large, and who can demonstrate a physical prototype. As first-place winners, Orellana and Noorani will receive $40,000, which they’ll be able to invest in the project any way they choose. “The money we give them is as much an investment in the people that have done the projects as it is in the projects,” says Chris Vincent, a senior design engineer at Dyson who helps select finalists for the award. “We have this ability to, from a distance, help some really really impressive pioneering and up and coming engineers and designers.”

O-Wind comes out of a class of finalists with a wide variety of inventions, from a wearable medical device that monitors medical fluid drains for infection to a wastewater recovery system for power plants, and even a prefabricated ant nest (for producing ants either for human consumption or to feed to livestock) and a plastic fork made from potato waste. One of the major trends, though, is toward devices that will address inefficiencies, living standards, and environmental issues in urban settings. O-Wind fits this category, as does Orca, an autonomous lake cleaning robot, and Lighthouse, a small, soft, leak-detecting robot that travels through pipes to prevent water main breaks, as well as several others.

“Those are kind of trying to work around this constant growth of cities we see, all around the world,” says Vincent. “Although the growth of those cities can come with a certain amount of increased efficiency and improved connection and communication between people, because you’ve got so many things stacking on top of each other it can often mean that inefficiencies creep into the system.”

Orellana and Noorani have built functional prototypes for O-Wind, but they’re still experimenting with size and material. First, it was a rover, not even ball shaped, but capable of traveling across a beach. They tried 3D printing a plastic one, but it took three months, and in the intervening time they built one from cardboard and paper, which wound up performing better in a wind tunnel than the plastic one anyway. But there are still many questions. Is the current, 25 centimeter diameter best? Should it be made from paper, cardboard or 3D printed plastic? These questions will also help determine how much the device might cost. The two inventors are hoping to see adoption of the technology by millions of people, thanks in part to publicity from the award and a patent they’ve applied for.

“We hope that O-Wind Turbine will improve the usability and affordability of turbines for people across the world,” says Orellana. “Cities are windy places, but we are currently not harnessing this resource. Our belief is that if we make it easier to generate green energy, people will be encouraged to play a bigger own role in conserving our planet.”

====== 207 ========

AOL CO-FOUNDER STEVE CASE TALKS WITH SMITHSONIAN GEOLOGIST JOHN GRANT ABOUT THE SEARCH FOR LIFE ON MARS

When John Grant was growing up in northern New York on the shores of Lake Champlain, he spent the cold, dark, boring winters reading “The Martian Chronicles” and other science fiction. He was 16 years old when NASA’s Viking spacecraft landed on Mars—a moment that “lit my fascination,” he said, with space.

Now a geologist at the National Air and Space Museum’s Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, Grant works with rovers that explore the Red Planet’s surface. When invited to share one optimism about the future at “The Long Conversation,” an event that brought together 25 thinkers for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues at the Smithsonian Arts & Industries Building last December, he had a big one: “Very soon we are going to know the answer to whether or not we’re alone in this universe.”

AOL co-founder Steve Case, who interviewed Grant on stage, prodded him for more details. The planetary geologist explained how explorations of Mars have shown that 3.5 or 4 billion years ago, the planet had lakes on its surface, and those lakes had a chemistry much like lakes here on Earth, suggesting that the environment was habitable in the past.

“I have to scratch my head and say I grew up next to a lake,” Grant says. “I know that the conditions I’m seeing there on Earth must have been at some level similar to what I’m seeing now on these images of Mars.”

Listen to Grant explain why he’s 80 percent sure there was once life on Mars.

Mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Watch it on livestream here.

====== 208 ========

A SMITHSONIAN SPORTS CURATOR EXPLAINS HOW ATHLETES TURN SOCIAL AND POLITICAL ISSUES INTO NATIONAL CONVERSATIONS

When dozens of big thinkers gathered at the Smithsonian Arts & Industries Building last December for an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues, each with an optimism to share, Damion Thomas, the National Museum of African American History and Culture’s curator of sports, cut to the chase.

“I am optimistic because athletes are protesting,” he told his interviewer, Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer.

Whether or not you agree with them politically, Thomas went on to say, “It is very important, because what it shows is that they have bought into these American ideals—these ideas of freedom, justice and equality for all, the idea that America is a place where everybody should be equal before the law.”

Thomas shared that he began to see how sports are an entryway into social and political conversations as a young boy. Later, a professor of a colonial history course he took in college drove a larger point home about the importance of history saying, “Whoever controls the present will use their power to control the past in hopes of controlling the future.” From that point on, he’s been passionate about exploring how history is not about the past, but about the present and the future.

Listen to Thomas talk about Colin Kaepernick, Charles Barkley and the role of athletes in politics.

Mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Watch it on livestream here.

====== 209 ========

BRITISH DOCTORS MAY SOON PRESCRIBE ART, MUSIC, DANCE, SINGING LESSONS

An ambitious initiative unveiled this week by British Health Secretary Matt Hancock may soon enable the country’s doctors to prescribe therapeutic art- or hobby-based treatments for ailments ranging from dementia to psychosis, lung conditions and mental health issues. Writing for the Times, Kat Lay explains that this unconventional strategy, described by the U.K. government as “social prescribing,” could find patients enrolled in dance classes and singing lessons, or perhaps enjoying a personalized music playlist.

Related Content Canadian Doctors Will Soon Be Able to Prescribe Museum Visits as Treatment

“We’ve been fostering a culture that’s popping pills and Prozac, when what we should be doing is more prevention and perspiration,” Hancock said in a Tuesday speech at the King’s Fund health care think tank. “Social prescribing can help us combat over-medicalising people.”

According to the Telegraph’s Laura Donnelly, the proposal, which arrives on the heels of a larger preventative health scheme, provides for the creation of a National Academy for Social Prescribing that will ensure general practitioners, or GPs, across the country are equipped to guide patients to an array of hobbies, sports and arts groups.

The medical benefits of engaging with the arts are well-recorded: As Lay notes, a collaboration between the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and stroke survivors living in Hull, England, encouraged patients to play instruments, conduct and perform; 90 percent of these participants reported improvements in their physical and mental health. In Lambeth, dance lessons have been shown to improve concentration and communication skills amongst those displaying early signs of psychosis, and in Gloucestershire, hospitals have begun to refer individuals with lung conditions to singing sessions.

A similar campaign launched in Canada earlier this month, Brendan Kelly reports for the Montreal Gazette. Beginning on November 1, every member of the Montreal-based medical association Médecins francophones du Canada (MdFC) gained the option of handing out 50 prescriptions allowing patients and a limited number of friends, family and caregivers to tour Quebec’s Montreal Museum of Fine Arts for free. Normally, admission costs up to $23 Canadian dollars (roughly $18 USD). As MdFC vice president Hélène Boyer tells Kelly, the initiative builds on research suggesting museum visits raise serotonin levels to offer a quick mood-boost.

Compared to the Canadian project, the U.K. one is simultaneously more comprehensive and less fleshed-out. Rather than simply prescribing one museum trip, the British campaign will encompass multiple walks of life, from social activities such as cooking classes, playing bingo and gardening to more culturally focused ventures, including library visits and concerts.

But a key issue the proposal does not fully address is a sustained funding model to support local services, Paul Farmer, chief executive of the mental health charity Mind, points out to BBC News. Mark Rowland, chief executive of the Mental Health Foundation, adds that that accessibility is another obstacle. “Our concern is that social prescribing options including music, arts and volunteering aren't being accessed by the poorest in our community,” he says. “If we're going to make the biggest difference to prevention and recovery the government needs to show how it will reach those most at risk."

Social prescribing is intended to complement rather than replace more traditional forms of treatment. As Sally Copley, director of policy for the Alzheimer’s Society, explains, music and the arts must function in conjunction with “access to the right support and medication when needed and, crucially, the government ensuring adequate funding for care is addressed.”

Social prescribing is projected to be employed across the U.K. by 2023, according to the government’s recent outline of its “loneliness strategy.” (Back in January of 2018, the U.K. appointed Tracey Crouch to serve as its first “minister of loneliness” to explore how to combat the “sad reality of modern life” following a revelatory report issued by the Jo Cox Commission on Loneliness the year prior.)

According to the Stage’s Georgia Snow, pilot programs are already underway in England’s northwest, where there’s a social prescribing scheme specifically for new mothers and babies, and in Wales, where the National Health Service has teamed up with the country’s arts council.

“We should value the arts because they’re essential to our health and wellbeing,” Hancock said in his remarks earlier this week. “Access to the arts improves people’s mental and physical health. It makes us happier and healthier.”

====== 210 ========

THIS REMOTE CONTROL VEST TRAINS RESCUE DOGS USING FLASHLIGHTS

As K9 cops, search and rescue teams, and drug enforcement agents know, a well-trained dog is an incredibly useful tool—not to mention an excellent furry companion. But there are some situations where that relationship breaks down, like in loud settings or when a dog has to travel into an area where it can’t see or hear its handler. Now, a Japanese lab has come up with a new vest that allows dog handlers to control their puppers via “remote control.”

In reality, the vest guides the dogs via flashlights, reports Andrew Liszewski at Gizmodo. In a recently posted video, researchers from Tohoku University demonstrate the gadget. Essentially, the dog wears a vest with flashlights on either side. The lights can be aimed from afar, creating bright spots on the ground. The dog is then able to follow the lights around obstacles, which, in the cast of the lab demonstration, is a series of folding tables.

Liszewski reports that if the system is used alongside a dog-mounted camera or with drones, the dog handler could guide their pooch as they search disaster wreckage or the inside collapsed or inaccessible buildings.

This is not the first time roboticist Kazunori Ohno and his team at Tohoku University have upgraded search and rescue (SAR) dogs. (No, we’re not talking about robotic dogs, like Sony’s Aibo.) Mai Iida at The Japan Times reports that Ohno began working on a project called the Robo-Dog system in 2011, after helping with on the remote-controlled robotic crawlers used during the Fukushima nuclear disaster.

While the robotic crawler was a great way to look inside the damaged plant, Ohno realized that in many similar disaster scenarios there are people trapped inside but unable to communicate or make their presence known. In that case, a dog and its ability to sniff out victims is irreplaceable.

“We often hear from rescuers that there are cases where people are invisible in a vast area but in need of urgent help,” says Ohno. “Dogs can find people with their strong olfactory sense. When exploring a new way to search, we came up with the idea of forming a tag team with dogs (and robotic technology).”

That led to the development of a special cyber suit for rescue dogs two years ago, that at the time only included GPS, motion tracking sensors and cameras, so rescuers could keep track of their dogs using a phone or iPad as the pooches entered a search area. The equipment is light enough that the dogs can wear the vest for over an hour without getting fatigued.

In 2016, Agence France Presse reported the system was successfully tested with Robo-Dog equipped SAR animals finding survivors in a mock earthquake drill, and the suit was then made available for SAR teams in Japan. The addition of the dog-directing spotlights, if and when they are perfected, will make the system even more useful.

Regardless, any hard-working, high-tech hound is a very, very good doggo.

====== 211 ========

CANADIAN DOCTORS WILL SOON BE ABLE TO PRESCRIBE MUSEUM VISITS AS TREATMENT

A stroll through the galleries of Quebec’s Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA) places individuals face-to-face with works of art by the likes of Rembrandt, El Greco and Rodin, as well as some 43,000 artifacts ranging from Chinese ceramics to Inuit sculpture. Visiting is undoubtedly an elucidating cultural experience, but a new initiative posits that a trip to the museum is more than just intellectually stimulating: As Brendan Kelly reports for The Montreal Gazette, beginning on November 1, a select group of local physicians will be able to prescribe museum visits as treatment for an array of ailments.

“We know that art stimulates neural activity," MMFA director Nathalie Bondil tells CBC News. "What we see is that the fact that you are in contact with culture, with art, can really help your well-being."

Thanks to the campaign, members of the Montreal-based medical association Médecins francophones du Canada (MdFC) can hand out up to 50 museum prescriptions enabling patients and a limited number of friends, family and caregivers to tour the MMFA for free. Without a prescription, admission can cost as much as $23 Canadian dollars, or roughly $18 U.S. dollars.

Speaking with the Gazette’s Kelly, MdFC vice president Hélène Boyer explains that museum visits have been shown to increase levels of serotonin, a neurotransmitter colloquially known as the “happy chemical” due to its mood-boosting properties. But creativity’s healing powers aren’t limited to tackling mental health issues; art therapy can also help those undergoing palliative care for severely life-threatening diseases or conditions, like cancer, or suffering from diabetes and chronic illness.

According to Boyer, the uptick in hormones associated with enjoying an afternoon of art is similar to that offered by exercise, making museum prescriptions ideal for the elderly and individuals experiencing chronic pain that prevents them from regularly engaging in physical activity.

CBC News points out that the museum visits are designed to complement, not supplant, more traditional methods. As Bondil notes, spending time with loved ones—the prescription is valid for two adults and two minors—in a peaceful environment can provide a welcome distraction.

“What is most important is to have this experience which is to help them escape from their own pain," she tells CBC. "When you enter the museum, you escape from the speed of our daily life. It's a kind of modern cathedral."

The program is the country’s first of its kind, according to the Canadian Press. It’s far from the MMFA’s first foray into art therapy, however: The institution is home to a number of art therapy-focused facilities, including a workshop, a medical consultation room and an Art Hive, which the museum’s website describes as a “creative community studio” overseen by an art therapist.

In addition, the MMFA is currently participating in 10 clinical trials designed to assess the impact of art on health. These studies encompass patients with a diverse array of medical issues, including eating disorders, breast cancer, epilepsy and Alzheimer’s.

The museum prescription pilot initiative will run for one year, CBC News reports. Doctors will make follow-up appointments with patients to gauge if the therapy has influenced their condition, and at the end of the testing window, will prepare a report detailing their findings.

“I am convinced that in the 21st century, culture will be what physical activity was for health in the 20th century,” Bondil said in a statement. “Cultural experiences will benefit health and wellness, just as engaging in sports contributes to fitness. Skeptics would do well to recall that just a hundred years ago, sports were believed to distort the body and threaten women’s fertility. Just as doctors now prescribe exercise, they will be able to prescribe a visit to the MMFA.”

====== 212 ========

CHINESE CITY WANTS TO LAUNCH FAKE MOON TO ILLUMINATE ITS STREETS

A French artist once envisioned a cosmic version of Versailles’ famed Hall of Mirrors, reportedly proposing the creation of an artificial moon powered by a necklace of mirrors that would reflect light back onto the streets of Paris. This bold plan never came to fruition, but as Chinese news outlet The People’s Daily reports, an illumination satellite inspired by the idea may brighten the streets of Chengdu as soon as 2020.

The satellite, which is also known as an artificial moon, will be able to illuminate a roughly 6- to 50-mile wide stretch of the southwestern Chinese city with light eight times brighter than that of the real moon. If all goes well, the fake moon will produce enough light to replace Chengdu’s street lamps. According to The Asia Times, Chengdu’s artificial moon will feature a highly reflective coating that reflects the sun’s rays via solar panel-like wings. The angles of these wings can be tweaked in order to create a precise illumination range of several dozen meters.

Wu Chunfeng, head of the Chengdu Aerospace Science and Technology Microelectronics System Research Institute, unveiled the singular plan at a national mass innovation and entrepreneurship event held last week. Citing the imagined French necklace of mirrors as the impetus for the project, Chunfeng explained that the technology behind the satellite has been in the testing phase for years but is finally near completion.

Although Chengdu, capital of China’s Sichuan province, is set to be the man-made moon’s focus, astronomers across the globe will reportedly be able to spot the satellite’s glow as they search the night sky. Giulio Calenne of Chinese commerce outlet CIFnews writes that the idea has raised concerns amongst those who fear the artificial light could have adverse effects on wildlife and astronomical observation.

Kang Weimin, director of the Harbin Institute of Technology’s School of Aerospace, refutes these concerns, telling Calenne that the satellite will produce a dusk-like glow far too faint to transform night into day.

For now, details on the proposed moon—including further satellite specifications, cost and launch date—remain scarce. As Fortune’s Don Reisinger notes, Chengdu officials hope the project will generate a financial windfall, allowing the city to cut electricity costs and attract tourists.

This isn’t the first time researchers have tried to illuminate the skies with artificial rays. The Telegraph’s Joseph Archer reports that Russian scientists launched a mirror-equipped spacecraft designed to brighten Siberia’s sun-deprived streets back in 1999.

The device, dubbed Znamya 2, collapsed soon after take-off and was subsequently abandoned. Still, the underlying concept embraced by the experiment — which The New York Times described at the time as a test of “the feasibility of illuminating points on Earth with light equivalent to that of several full moons” — remains an enticing prospect. And, by 2020, it may even become reality.

====== 213 ========

HOW FISH FARMS CAN USE FACIAL RECOGNITION TO SURVEY SICK SALMON

Facial recognition tools are used in criminal investigations and when you tag your friends in photos on Facebook, but now, its usage is getting a little fishy—literally. A fish farm company hopes to use face identification technology in high-tech salmon farms to check the animals for a parasite called sea lice and other health problems.

The Norwegian fish-farming firm Cermaq Group AS is planning on implementing the facial recognition software as part of a high-tech fish farming suite they are calling iFarm, reports Agnieszka de Sousa at Bloomberg Businessweek. The tech, which should be ready for commercial use in five to six years, is likely going to be in high demand.

Currently, most fish farms assess the health of their salmon as a group, not individually. If a few fish are found to have a disease or parasite, the whole farm is treated. But the iFarm system aims to assess each individual fish, allowing fish growers to determine how fast each fish grows and check for the presence of disease or parasites.

To do this, the system will use a machine called the BioSort vision recognition system. De Sousa at Bloomberg reports that the system relies on the biology of the fish. In an iFarm, about 200,000 salmon would live in 525-foot circular net. About every four days, salmon need to come to the surface to take a gulp of air to regulate their swim bladder. When they do, a pyramid shaped device guides them into the camera that recognizes their face based on the pattern of dots on their snout and gills and also scans their entire body. If the fish shows signs of a problem, it is then guided into a holding pen for individual treatment.

The iFarm tool is especially helpful in dealing with sea lice, a parasite which has become huge problem in the salmon industry, infecting fish farms in Norway, the U.S., Canada, Chile and Scotland. The lice, which are a type of crustacean, cost the salmon farming industry $1 billion per year.

Farmers are trying all sorts of techniques to rid their fish of the lice, including dousing them with pesticides, breeding genetically resistant fish and even using lice-zapping lasers, reports Patrick Whittle at The Independent. Others are experimenting with raising certain fish species that will slurp the lice off salmon. Some are using a technique that raises the temperature of the water briefly to cause the lice to detach. But the iFarm system would allow farmers to be more targeted in their approach.

“We know that sea lice are very unevenly distributed amongst the fish, and this system enables us to avoid mass lice treatments,” Cermaq Norway Managing Director Knut Ellekjær tells Nicki Holmyard at Seafood Source. “Similarly, we can sort salmon on the basis of weight and remove only those fish ready for harvest, without stressing the others.”

It’s estimated that the system could cut fish mortality from sea lice by 50 to 75 percent. Even when lice don’t kill the fish, the salmon are still rendered unsellable because of the lesions and sores the lice cause.

“Only the fish that actually need it will be sorted out for treatment, which means typically 5 to 20 percent,” Geir Stang Hauge, CEO of BioSort, the tech company collaborating with Cermaq tells De Sousa. “This avoids stressful treatment for all the healthy fish.”

It’s hoped that such a system would help bring down the price of farmed salmon, which has become more expensive as the lice spreads.

Salmon aren’t the only species getting special treatment using facial recognition. The agribusiness giant Cargill announced earlier this year that it is investing in the Irish software company Cainthus. Using image monitoring, Cainthus software is able to track individual dairy cows and monitor their food and water intake as well as their behavior patterns to determine any signs of disease or illness.

Facial recognition is also being used in animal conservation. Last year, researchers at Michigan State University created a system that could recognize the faces of individual lemurs. It’s hoped that, with some refinements, such systems could help count, track and even keep tabs on the health of endangered species in the wild.

====== 214 ========

LET’S BUILD CARS OUT OF BATTERIES

Carbon fiber is primarily used for its light weight, and prized for its strength and stiffness. But when Leif Asp looks at the material, he sees an opportunity to make it do double duty in a way that could drastically improve the efficiency of cars and airplanes.

“The battery is a structural parasite,” says the engineer and professor at the Chalmers University of Technology in Sweden, meaning it adds weight and saps efficiency, without contributing to the physical strength and structure of the car that it’s powering. But what if the vehicles were built out of batteries?

That’s where Asp is really going with this technology. He wants to see cars, planes, boats, even smartwatches and other consumer electronics made of a material that acts both as the body and the energy source—something known as a “structural battery.” A car incorporating structural batteries could weigh up to 50 percent less than a typical EV that has heavy lithium ion batteries packed underneath it, says Asp.

It’s not news that carbon fiber has electrochemical properties. Like graphite, the material is, in certain configurations, capable of conductivity. Researchers from the Chalmers University of Technology have applied for a U.S. patent on a battery made from carbon fiber, but actually bringing one to market has proven tricky for the small number of people studying the idea. New research from Asp’s team has identified a particular aspect of the material that makes its potential use as structural batteries a lot more realistic.

All carbon is not created equal, however, and different types of carbon have different properties that make them applicable to different uses. Asp’s goal is to understand what behaves how, and why, and apply that to structural applications.

“The carbon fibers that are available on the market, they have been made for structural applications or made for electrical applications,” he says. Structural applications are what we’re most familiar with, from the carbon that makes up bicycles and other strong, lightweight products, but electrical components are sometimes made of the material too, albeit a different type. He believes there’s carbon that can do both.

In their latest research, Asp and his collaborators compared three composites and examined them through electron microscopy and laser spectroscopy. They built the fiber into batteries, looked at the size and orientation of the crystals of carbon atoms bonded together in them, and compared the stiffness, strength and electrochemical properties of the different materials. Smaller crystals, with more disoriented structure, tend to be more electrochemically reactive — that is, they are more able to take up, store and release electrons, and thus act as batteries. However, these types of carbon are less stiff than those with crystals that are longer and lined up. (Either way, they’re very small; Asp compared fiber with crystals from 18 to 28 angstroms to crystals from 100 to 300 angstroms, and an angstrom is one ten billionth of a meter.)

Using a carbon fiber that sacrifices some stiffness to achieve better conductivity may not be a problem, because the material was still stiffer than steel, and capable of carrying a structural load. It also won’t hold a charge as efficiently as traditional batteries, but then, if most of the car is made up of the stuff, it won’t have to because the overall efficiency will still be greatly increased. Industry partners like Airbus, which has been working with Asp since 2015, refer to this as “mass-less energy storage.”

Still, it’s technology that’s a long way from being practical — potentially decades, says Adrian Mouritz, executive dean of the school of engineering at RMIT University in Melbourne. Mouritz also works on structural energy storage using carbon fiber, but his work embeds lithium ion batteries within sandwiches of carbon, helping to carry some of the structural load and reducing the dead weight of batteries, though not as extensively as Asp’s version.

“The approach we’re taking, the composite material is already proven, the battery itself is already proven. All we’re trying to prove is the integration of the battery into the composite, which is a much smaller step to take,” says Mouritz. “Leif’s is … more technically complex, but its benefits in the longer term are going to be stronger. It still just requires a lot more research and development to optimize the materials and design of the actual system.”

Asp and his lab are working to make it viable already. Early research (2014 and prior) modified carbon fibers, introducing a sheath of laminated polymer electrolytes that helps the fiber store and release ions more efficiently, in the same way that a lithium ion battery uses an intervening electrolyte.

“For this to fly, of course, would be a long time away,” says Asp. He is working with Airbus to produce a demo, for release next year, which replaces interior lights and cables with structural carbon fiber. Though the greater weight savings could be in eliminating the need for fuel, which Mouritz says accounts for one third or more of an airline’s operating budget, the Airbus demo will be an illustration that the technology is viable.

Mouritz sees the technology being applied to luxury autos and Formula 1 racecars first, and wide adoption in the consumer market once the price comes down and the reliability is confirmed. “If you can lightweight your aircraft, if you can lightweight your automobile, the actual net cost savings of this is in the hundreds of millions if not in the billions of dollars,” he says.

“The other thing, of course,” Mourtiz adds, “is, if I’m reducing my fuel burn, I’m actually reducing my greenhouse gas emissions.”

====== 215 ========

THE FUTURE IS BRIGHT IF MORE TEENS COULD THINK ABOUT HIGH SCHOOL THE WAY KAVYA KOPPARAPU DOES

Kavya Kopparapu was 17 years old and a senior at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, Virginia, when she sat down with world-renowned cellist Yo-Yo Ma. The two brilliant minds were paired off in an eight-hour relay of two-person dialogues called “The Long Conversation,” held at the Smithsonian’s Arts & Industries Building last December.

Before talking about the physics of vibrating cello strings, Kopparapu imparted one major lesson she learned in her artificial intelligence course, that’s applicable to a student of any age. “It’s one thing to go to school, learn something and just leave it at that,” she said. “But it’s another thing to enjoy it…and apply it in the real world.”

AI, Kopparapu admits, elicits a mixed-bag reaction of “This is either super exciting, or oh no, it’s going to be the end of us all.” But she’s harnessed it to develop a tool called GlioVision that helps glioblastoma patients by extracting valuable molecular and genetic information from their biopsy slides in seconds. The efficient and highly accurate tumor analysis could guide doctors toward personalized treatment plans to fight the aggressive brain cancer.

Each participant in “The Long Conversation” was asked to share one optimism for the future, and Kopparapu, who founded the Girls Computing League, a nonprofit working to foster girls’ interests in computer science and technology, said she’s hopeful about her generation and what they can do with strong mentorship. (Her own physics teacher was backstage.)

“As a high school student, we take a perspective of trying everything and being okay with failure, because we don’t have constraints like grant money or pressure to publish or anything like that. We are able to try things,” she said. “We haven’t been in the field long enough to know what doesn’t work. We look at problems as they can be solved in the future not as they are constrained by the technology right now.”

Mark your calendars for this year’s “Long Conversation,” which will bring an impressive group of scientists, musicians, inventors, tech CEOs and others together on December 7, 2018. Watch it on livestream here.

====== 216 ========

THIS EX-TRAPEZE ARTIST MADE PARACHUTES SAFER

Atlantic staff writer Frank Foer interviews Damion Thomas about athletes moving from a position of apathy to engagement

A Smithsonian Sports Curator Explains How Athletes Turn Social and Political Issues into National Conversations (15:38)

Kennedy Center president Deborah Rutter interviews the co-founder of MIT’s Little Devices Lab about democratizing health technology

Jose Gomez-Marquez Wants to Turn Every Doctor and Nurse into a Maker (14:58)

In a conversation with architect David Rockwell, the philanthropic chef urges an invested effort to create technology that could collect water from the clouds

Restaurateur José Andrés Dreams of Milking the Clouds (14:40)

Latina American writer Gabby Rivera interviews the co-founder of Global Air Media about giving students access to the technology

Eno Umoh Is Getting Kids to Think About the Positive Powers of Drones (15:02)

Autodesk vice president Brian Mathews talks with the NASA science communicator about the search for life on other planets and why it’s important

Astrophysicist Michelle Thaller On Understanding Our Place in the Universe (14:49)

Cellist Yo-Yo Ma talks with the founder of the Girls Computing League about the promise of her generation

The Future Is Bright If More Teens Think About High School the Way Kavya Kopparapu Does (19:07)

John Grant explains how in the near future we are going to know if life exists elsewhere in the universe

AOL Co-Founder Probes Smithsonian Geologist John Grant About Finding Life on Mars (15:34)

DC chef Erik Bruner-Yang interviews Jill-of-all-trades Kaitlyn Hova about her plan to infuse STEM education with open source, 3D printable instruments.

Could 3D Printing Save Music Education? (16:23)

In 1923, Tokyo lay in ruins after the devastation of the Great Kanto Earthquake. Just seven years later, it was a city reborn: from the iconic Ginza shopping center to the world famous Kabuki-za Theater.

====== 217 ========

THIS PRESSURE SUIT HELPED PILOTS SURVIVE NEW HEIGHTS

On September 2, 1945, Japan delivered its unconditional surrender in WWII. Twelve million American troops went home as civilians, to work and raise families--ushering the U.S. into a new age of global leadership.

Japan's Surrender in WWII Ushered in a New World Order (2:06)

An anxious student pilot is attempting to land a C2-A Greyhound on a U.S. aircraft carrier. It's part of a qualifications test she must pass ten times in order to be certified as a C2-A pilot.

Here's What it Takes to Become a Certified C2-A Pilot (3:21)

Two rival explorers have teamed up on a very special project in the Baltic sea. Their aim is to locate and explore the wreck of one of the most historic ships in Swedish history: Mars.

Team of Explorers Uncover Famous Sunken Ship (3:23)

The AC-130 is the world's biggest flying artillery gunship - nicknamed 'Hell in the Sky.' With three side-firing weapons, a 25mm Gatling gun, a 40mm Bofors cannon, and a 105mm howitzer, it's easy to see why it got its name.

Deadly AC-130 Gunship in Action Firing All Its Cannons (3:07)

It's November 2001, and lieutenant colonel Allison Black is a navigator on an AC-130 gunship flying over Afghanistan. She recounts a typical combat mission during operation Enduring Freedom.

AC-130 Gunship Navigator Recalls Taliban Combat Mission (2:56)

The USS Guadalcanal has spotted a German sub in the waters off the coast of Madeira. They immediately order a strike with the navy's new and devastating weapon: the hedgehog.

A U.S. Warship Fires an Anti-Sub Weapon on a German U-Boat (4:24)

Allied POWs rescued in the South China Sea have an incredible story to tell. They'd been kept in a secret prison camp in Thailand, where their Japanese captors forced them to build a railroad from Thailand to Burma.

These POWs Were Forced to Build the Bridge Over River Kwai (2:34)

Domesticating horses gave the ancient Scythian nomads speed and mobility. But they were also a vital source of nutrition, providing both meat and milk.

Why Horses Are So Vital in the Lives of These Nomads (1:57)

After a long-drawn out conflict in the Pacific, the troops needed a morale boost. And the United Service Organizations provided it in spades, thanks to spectacular shows by Hollywood legends like Bob Hope and Joe E. Brown.

